---

title: Route transfer between devices
abstract: A user can intend to travel between different locations and employ different traveling manners to reach an intended travel destination. At different points, different devices can be employed for disclosing a route. For instance, as a user walks, a route can be integrated into a personal electronic device, such as a cellular telephone. An evaluation can take place that due to specific route details, for example detailed text, a particular device would be superior for presentment over another.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060297&OS=08060297&RS=08060297
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08060297
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 115 entitled ROUTE MONETIZATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 127 entitled FEDERATED ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 139 entitled DESTINATION AUCTIONED THROUGH BUSINESS OF INTEREST .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 151 entitled GENERATIONAL INTELLIGENT NAVIGATION SYNCHRONIZATION OR UPDATE .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 167 entitled SOCIAL NETWORK BASED ROUTES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 188 entitled ADDITIONAL CONTENT BASED ON INTENDED TRAVEL DESTINATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 206 entitled AUTOMATIC SPLICES FOR TARGETED ADVERTISEMENTS .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 210 entitled PEDESTRIAN ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 219 entitled ROUTE GENERATION BASED UPON ACTIVITY CRITERIA .

The subject specification relates generally to route production and in particular to producing routes along multiple devices

Computer driven automobile route planning applications are utilized to aid users in locating points of interest such as particular buildings addresses and the like. Additionally in several existent commercial applications users can vary a zoom level thereby enabling variation of context and detail as a zoom level of a map is altered. For example as a user zooms in on a particular location details such as names of local roads identification and location of police and fire stations identification and location of public services such as libraries museums and the like can be provided to the user. When zooming out the user can glean information from the map such as location of the point of interest within a municipality state providence and or country proximity of the point of interest to major freeways proximity of the point of interest to a specific city and the like.

Furthermore conventional computer implemented mapping applications often include automotive route planning applications that can be utilized to provide users with directions between different locations. Pursuant to an example a user can provide an automotive route planning application with a beginning point of travel and an end point of travel e.g. beginning and ending addresses . The route planning application can include or utilize representations of roads and intersections and one or more algorithms to output a suggested route of travel. These algorithms can output routes depending upon user selected parameters. For instance a commercial route planning application can include a check box that enables a user to specify that she desires to avoid highways. Similarly a user can inform the route planning application that she wishes to travel on a shortest route or a route that takes a least amount of time or a route that uses a least amount of gasoline as determined by underlying algorithms . Over the last several years individuals have grown to rely increasingly on route planning applications to aid them in everything from locating a friend s house to planning cross country road trips.

The following discloses a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to disclose some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is disclosed later.

Conventional route production systems generate a route that is disclosed to a user. For instance while traveling in a vehicle a user can request directions to a hotel a direction set is produced upon a vehicle navigation screen that leads the user to a parking garage near the hotel. However once the user reaches the parking garage the user typically employs alternate manners to travel from the parking garage to the hotel e.g. walking . In order to utilize the generated route the user can write down a route portion attempt to memorize the route portion and the like. This can lead to a large likelihood of errors such as incorrectly copying information.

The disclosed innovation allows a route to integrate seamlessly between devices such as between a vehicle navigation system and a personal electronic device. Using the example from the previous paragraph as the user exits the vehicle the route produced upon the vehicle navigation screen can transfer to a user s personal electronic device such as a cellular telephone. Information related to user travel can be collected and based upon the collected information a device for presentment can be chosen. A route can transfer to a selected device e.g. be emitted from a presentation device be collected transferred from a central server etc. and the route is presented to the user.

Many vehicle route generation devices under development can be detachable from the vehicle and carried by a user. Due to the portable features of these devices little attention has been paid to transfer of routes between devices. The disclosed innovation takes route disclosure in a new direction allowing routes to be produced on multiple devices based upon contextual factors of a user.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification can be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It can be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to disclose concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. It is to be appreciated that determinations or inferences referenced throughout the subject specification can be practiced through use of artificial intelligence techniques.

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for choosing at least one device upon which a route is to be presented. Two conventional manners in which to travel with a navigational aid is though a paper direction set or a computer generated route. A route can be generated at a home computer printed onto a piece of paper and carried with a user as the user travels in a vehicle e.g. an automobile motorcycle bicycle airplane helicopter motorboat self balancing transportation device etc. . Common computer generated routes provide high quality driving instructions but poor walking instructions. Some vehicle navigation systems are portable and produce a detailed route that can transition a user between driving walking etc. However the portable system becomes another piece of equipment a user is responsible for such as in addition to a cellular telephone pager portable music player personal digital assistant and the like.

The disclosed innovation allows a route to transfer between user devices thus allowing a user to have improved functionality without being burdened with carrying extra devices. A collection component can obtain information that concerns a group of one or more devices capable of route presentment e.g. available devices such as a cellular telephone and vehicle navigation system user data e.g. user position and a route. Information can be obtained from various sources such as from a personal profile data stored on a personal device e.g. contacts on a cellular telephone and the like.

Obtained information can be accessed by a choice component that selects a device for route presentment from the group of one or more devices capable of route presentment based upon device information user data and the route. For instance the choice component can identify that a user will travel from his home to his vehicle and allow a route to be displayed on both devices. The routes can synchronize with one another such that a change made to the route upon one device can be represented on other devices. In another embodiment a singular device is selected to present a route and the route transfers from device to device e.g. the route is sent to a vehicle system and deleted from a home computer .

In an illustrative instance a user can intend to take a nature trail at a park that she has never visited. The user can generate a route on a personal computer that includes both driving directions from her home to the park as well as a trail to take once in the park. The collection component can access a user schedule and determine the user plans to travel along the route at 10 AM. At 10 AM the choice component can designate a vehicle navigation system integrated upon a vehicle radio to present the route to the user. As the user travels along the route she can park her car at a starting point of the nature trail. The collection component can obtain vehicle operation information of the user e.g. a vehicle engine has shut off and the choice component can infer the user is leaving her vehicle and the route should transmit to a personal electronic device. The choice component can analyze available devices to determine at least one device upon which a route should be transmitted. This can be based upon her history e.g. on nature walks she commonly brings a watch but not her cellular telephone device placement e.g. her cellular telephone is in a trunk compartment device status e.g. she is more likely to use a device that is in an on state etc. In addition she can make changes to the route upon one device e.g. add a stop on her way home and the change can be represented upon placement on another device.

According to one embodiment the choice component automatically transfers a route to multiple devices and a device can make a decision on if a route should be accepted presented and the like. The choice component can implement with correction capabilities such that a different selection can be made if it is determined that there is an incorrect election. For example a cellular telephone can be initially selected however if the telephone is in an off position the choice component could make a new selection of a wristwatch. In addition different devices can have different functionality used for route presentment. A route can transfer to a cellular telephone and an automotive stereo system where the cellular telephone displays route images and the stereo system plays voice commands. Alternatively an automobile navigation screen can show a bird s eye view of the route while a handheld device shows a next turn and a countdown to when where the turn occurs. In an alternate configuration the collection component can receive a current location and an intended destination. The system can construct the direction set and the choice component can make the computed direction set available to at least one other device e.g. a device that transferred the current location or the intended destination .

The system can function to synchronize devices continuously periodically and so on. The collection component can operate as a means for maintaining a synchronization connection between a master device and at least one subordinate device. The choice component can implement as a means for updating a route upon at least one connected subordinate device from information upon the master device. The master device can hold the route and the subordinate device can retain local copies of the route. In addition the master device can be a device controlled by a user while a friend or other party can own operate the subordinate device. Various security measures can be implemented upon the system such as transferring the route in an encrypted manner determining if a subordinate device is authorized to receive an update and the like. Additionally the master device can gather an intended destination current location anticipated location and so forth e.g. gathered from the subordinate device compute a direction set and transfer the direction set to the subordinate device. The collection component choice component other components of the subject specification and so on can implement upon the master device as well as other locations.

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for choosing at least one device upon which a route is to be presented with a representative detailed collection component . A communication component can engage with other devices to transfer information e.g. a route from one device to another send a request for information receiving information from an auxiliary source e.g. access a user personal profile etc. Operation can take place wirelessly in a hard wired manner employment of security technology e.g. encryption authentication . . . etc. Moreover the communication component can utilize various protective features such as performing a virus scan on collected data and blocking information that is positive for a virus.

A route can be gathered through use of the communication component and an assessment component can appraise the route to establish when a choice component should make a selection of a device that should disclose a route. For instance the collection component can obtain information that a user s cellular telephone that holds a route is running low on power and is likely to fail temporarily. The assessment component can determine it is a proper time for choice component to make a selection on a device that should disclose the route once if the cellular telephone fails e.g. choose at least one device choose all devices and a user can elect a device that presents the route . Moreover the choice component can determine if a device is in an on state. In one scenario the user can elect a device that is in an off state the user can change the state from off to on and when the state changes synchronization can take place e.g. a route can be transferred .

To engage an information source a search component can be employed to locate a source that provides information that can be obtained. A source can be a database server an airway transmission in incoming electronic message etc. The search component can retain addresses e.g. Internet Protocol addresses of locations that have a history of providing quality information. Moreover the search component can identify low quality sources e.g. sources that historically provide inaccurate data and block information obtainment for such identified sources. The search component can function to extract information from a source make a copy of information etc. Moreover the search component can discover devices capable to disclose a route within set criteria e.g. when a direction set is disclosed upon a vehicle screen while in route devices within a vehicle cabin are searched and a user s home is ignored since a user s home device is likely of little value . The search component can process discovery results to produce a group of one or more devices capable of route presentment.

Various diagnostic tests can be performed upon discovered devices by a test component . Tests can include device capabilities e.g. determine if a device includes a monitor device characteristics e.g. device battery life and the like. For instance the test component can check if a device discovered by the search component has a capability to relay route information as audio sounds which can be important if an anticipated user has a hearing impairment.

A user can specifically make requests as to what device should hold a route that can be gathered by an interaction component . The interaction component can collect a user request that specifies a device for route presentment the choice component selects the user specified device. For instance the user can input a command that her personal digital assistant always carry a route and that a vehicle navigation system retain her route when she is physically located within a cabin of her vehicle. The interaction component can notify the choice component of the command as well as provide priority data e.g. a request from a user takes precedence over an estimation .

Different pieces of information such as obtained information component operating instructions e.g. of the search component source location an original route etc. can be held on storage . Storage can arrange in a number of different configurations including as random access memory battery backed memory hard disk magnetic tape etc. Various features can be implemented upon storage such as compression and automatic back up e.g. use of a Redundant Array of Independent Drives configuration .

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for choosing at least one device upon which a route is to be presented with a representative detailed choice component . A collection component can obtain information that concerns a group of one or more devices capable of route presentment user data and a route. Based upon device information user data and the route the choice component can select a device for route presentment from the group of one or more devices capable of route presentment.

Details obtained by the collection component e.g. information that concerns a group of one or more devices capable of route presentment user data a route etc. can be processed by an evaluation component . The evaluation component can analyze a route or a device form the plurality of devices e.g. perform functions of the test component of a result of the analysis is used in the device selection. For instance the evaluation component date determine that a route has portions that would benefit from display upon a color monitor and find devices that can display information in color.

An artificial intelligence component can be employed to make at least one inference or at least one determination in relation to information obtainment or device selection. For instance the artificial intelligence component can infer that an engine of a vehicle powering down or a global positioning system trail e.g. a path along a route signifies the user is to leave the vehicle in a relatively short time. Moreover the artificial intelligence component can be used to determine if obtained detail are reliable.

Artificial intelligence component can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences and or making determinations related to applying a service e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. Methods also include methods for the capture of logical relationships such as theorem provers or more heuristic rule based expert systems.

A device a user will implement can be anticipated and an estimation component can predict a device a user will employ the prediction is used by the choice component to select the device. For example a prediction can be made on if a user is likely to become confused along a route. Therefore a device should likely be selected that supplies an appropriate amount of route detail e.g. a device with a relatively large screen . The estimation component can also make device predictions such as what devices a user will carry when he leaves his vehicle.

Devices can be contrasted against one another to determine a device that should be selected by a comparison component . Common operation of the comparison component ranks devices based upon a plethora of criteria and the choice component selects a device with a highest rank. It is to be appreciated that the choice component can select more than one device as well as all devices in a group. Devices can be operated owned by different users thus routes can transfer between different users. In an illustrative instance a person can send a broad message to anyone within a given area that they are lost and would like a route to a destination. The message can be received by the collection component and the choice component can decide if a route should be transferred to the requestor. According to one embodiment various security measures can be implemented such as disclosing the route to the requester but not disclosing a current location of the user.

At least a portion of a route can be transferred to a selected device though use of a relocation component . In addition the relocation component can transfer instructions such as a format in which to present the route. Transfer of the route can include sending the route to the selected device sending a copy of the route to the selected device making the route accessible to the selected device sending a start and end location for calculation of a route on the selected device etc. Transferring the route can include emitting a series of images to another device or storage card that details the route thus allowing virtually any electronic device to display route information.

It is possible that incorrect assumptions are made in selecting a device for presentment. A correction component can monitor user or device activity and initiate new selection actions based upon additional data e.g. data that a selection was incorrect poor etc. . For instance a prediction can be made that a user will carry his cellular telephone on a nature walk and the cellular telephone is the selected device. However if the user does not take his cellular telephone then the choice component can make a new selection.

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for choosing at least one device upon which a route is to be presented with an advertisement component and transaction component . A collection component can obtain information that concerns a group of one or more devices capable of route presentment user data and a route. Based upon device information user data and the route a choice component can select a device for route presentment from the group of one or more devices capable of route presentment. The choice component can utilize a relocation component of that can transfer the route to the selected device the selected device can disclose the presented route.

There can be a disclosure of a commercial detail e.g. an announcement for a product or service that can integrate with a route. An advertisement component can associate a commercial detail with a portion of the route the route associated with the commercial detail transfers to the selected device. For instance when a route is disclosed upon a vehicle device a fuel station commercial detail can be played. However when a route is presented on a personal device as a user walks down a street a commercial detail can be shown to encourage the user to window shop.

If a user performs a function in response to a commercial detail then a party can be compensated e.g. an advertisement service host . A transaction component can augment an entity with a reward based upon a user performing a function that relates to the associated commercial detail. For instance a commercial detail can instruct a user to stop at a coffee shop to purchase a coffee drink. If the user does stop at the coffee shop or purchase a coffee drink then an entity associated with the system e.g. monthly provider can be compensated. In this instance once price can be paid for the user stopping and another price paid for a purchase.

The transaction component can employ revenue sharing in relation to advertisement disclosure. In an illustrative instance a single route associated advertisement can be published through a vehicle disclosure device as well as a cellular telephone. The transaction component can allocate a portion of revenue e.g. balanced allocation weighted allocation and the like from an advertiser to a vehicle disclosure device maker to a cellular telephone manufacturer an operator of the system etc.

The transaction component can perform a reward operation e.g. financial or non financial in relation to information obtainment or device selection. The transaction component can perform actions to meet constraints such as debiting a user account and crediting a provider account. While fiscal amounts are commonly transacted it is to be appreciated that other commodities can be exchanged such as coupons meeting of contractual obligations e.g. canceling of a task to be performed tax credits etc.

Moreover a reward function can take place in relation to user response to a commercial detail. For example an advertisement can be played that a user should stop at a highway exit for a cup of coffee. If the user takes the exit buys the cup of coffee buys a different item etc. then payments of varying amounts can be made to an advertisement hosting service.

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for transferring a direction set between devices. A central server can hold a route and transfer the route to different locations. For instance initially a route can transfer to a vehicle and be presented upon a vehicle display screen. Moreover a navigation system of the vehicle can generate a route e.g. through viewing user history and anticipating a user intended destination and the generated route can be uploaded to the central server or retained in vehicle storage. Route generation can be centralized e.g. one device machine is appointed to generate and distribute the route completely distributed e.g. each capable machine tries to generate the route semi distributed e.g. there is an appointed master route generator which is automatically replaced by a next powerful machine if a response times out and the like.

A collection component can obtain information that concerns a group of one or more devices capable of route presentment user data and a route. Based upon device information user data and the route a choice and distribution component can selects a device or devices for route presentment from the group of one or more devices capable of route presentment.

In the disclosed system three possible devices are disclosed a cellular telephone a wristwatch and a personal digital assistant . It is to be appreciated that other devices can be implemented aside for the disclosed three such as a laptop computer. In one embodiment the choice component selects the wristwatch for disclosing a route. This can be in addition to selecting the cellular telephone or personal digital assistant as well as sole selection of the wristwatch .

The devices and as well as the vehicle can configure with a gather component that collects a route for disclosure. The gather component can function as a means for gathering a route disclosed upon a first presentment device e.g. a disclosure component of the vehicle . Gathering the route can include extracting the route retaining a copy of the route etc. In one configuration one of the first presentment device or subsequent presentment device is a vehicle device e.g. enacted upon the vehicle such as a in vehicle navigation system and one of the first presentment device or subsequent presentment device is a personal electronic device e.g. the cellular telephone the wristwatch the personal digital assistant etc. 

A disclosure component can provide the route to a user e.g. operating a vehicle passenger or operator as a pedestrian etc. . A non exhaustive list of disclosure components include a display screen touch screen speaker system virtual reality environment Braille production system printer etc. In addition the disclosure component can present information in multiple formats such as showing a video with audio capabilities. Other components can implement upon the devices and or the vehicle such as a formatting component that modifies the route in order to improve presentment upon the disclosure component . Other components can be utilized in conjunction with devices or or the vehicle such as a global position component that tracks user location and alteration component that changes what is presented on the disclosure component based upon user location a layout component that formats a route for presentment upon the disclosure component and the like.

Now referring to an example methodology is disclosed to make a direction set available to a device. Initially information related to a route user activity device characteristics and the like could be gathered at event . Gathering information can include making copies of relevant information that is retained in storage reading information off a remote storage device etc.

Devices capable of disclosing a route can be discovered at action . A scan can take place along a locality that identifies devices capable of communication. For example messages can be sent out globally along an area requesting a response if a device can disclose a direction set devices that positively respond can be considered discovered devices. In one embodiment a device list is retained in storage e.g. portable devices commonly located in a vehicle and the device list is analyzed at action .

Discovered devices can be tested in order to determine if the devices are capable of presenting a route at act . A device can state it includes capabilities to disclose a route however it is possible that the device does not specific needs of a situation. For instance a device can present a route upon a screen but the route cannot be disclosed in color. If important route information is shown through varying colors then the device will commonly fail and not be used to disclose the route.

A check can take place to determine if an advertisement is to be integrated into a route. Commonly advertisements attempt to convince a user to purchase a product or use a service. When disclosed in relation to a route the advertisement can relate to a possible waypoint near the route e.g. a restaurant off a highway exit or near an intended destination.

If the check makes a positive determination then an advertisement can be integrated into the route at action . Integration allows the advertisement to be disclosed at an opportune time e.g. a time when the advertisement has a high chance of being effective . The integration can include adding a procedure that if a user takes an action in accordance with an advertisement e.g. takes a particular exit then an advertisement hosting service can be compensated.

If the check makes a negative determination or an advertisement is added then at block a time to choose a device is established. Selecting a device for route presentment can consume a relatively high amount of resources e.g. processing time . Therefore operation of block allows selection to take place at times that are appropriate. In one embodiment a user signifies when selection should take place however selection can take place automatically without user request.

At event a device for route disclosure can be selected commonly at a time chosen at block . A relatively large number of devices can be available to present a route to a user. In one example a user can own a wristwatch and a cellular telephone that are both capable of presenting a direction set. If the user leaves a vehicle with the wristwatch but not the cellular telephone then the wristwatch would likely be selected to present the route. In one instance multiple devices can be selected e.g. a cellular telephone and a wristwatch a route can be sent to the devices and a user elects a device for presentment.

A direction set can be made available to a chosen device at event . A device can be allowed to access a direction set that is retained in local storage or the direction set can be directly transmitted to a device. Moreover a password can be provided that allows a personal electronic device to access the direction set from a remote server e.g. a home computer .

Now referring to an example methodology is disclosed for choosing a device and making a direction set available to the chosen device which can be implemented as events and of . Different characteristics of devices can be evaluated at action . For example a user can prefer to use one device to another and action can learn of the user preferences.

Criteria for selection can be analyzed through act . Contextual information can be known such as a user will travel alone and at night in an unfamiliar area. Therefore highly important selection criteria can be that devices are well lit and allow a user to see the direction set easily. In addition non route criteria can be evaluated such as that a device includes a security light for use in case of an emergency. A comparison can be made between the direction set and the available devices.

At block the devices can be ordered in a priority list from most to least desirable for presentment. Devices that a user prefers using can be provided a higher rating as well as devices that meet much of the selection criteria. In addition comparison results can be used to rank the devices and different selection criteria or device capabilities can be weighted.

Based upon device ratings a check can be made if there is a suitable device for presentment. For instance if no device has a well lit display screen e.g. a screen is not bright enough according to a threshold then a notice can be sent to the user explaining that a suitable device could not be found. However other configurations can be implemented such as a determination is made if there is a device that can visually present a route if a device cannot be found then a check occurs to determine if there is a device where audio presentment is available. If a suitable device cannot be found then device evaluation can continue at action for newly discovered devices.

Event allows for a communication portal between devices e.g. between a personal electronic device and a central server to be open. A communication portal can enable a device to access information related to a direction set including the direction set. The portal can configure with various protective measures such as using encryption.

A device appropriate for disclosing a route can be designated at act . Devices rated at block can be provided a score and a comparison can be made between device scores and a set threshold score. If a device has a score equal to or above the threshold then the device can be designated to present a route. In one embodiment a highest scoring device is selected e.g. or two highest scoring three highest scoring etc. 

At block a notice can be transmitted to a designated device that a route is ready for presentment. The notice can include the direction set as well as instructions on how to access the direction set. For instance the notice can state that a direction set for presentment is located at X location e.g. providing an Internet Protocol address and should have Y characteristics e.g. be formatted in color .

Now referring to an example methodology is disclosed for device operation concerning disclosing a route. A message can be obtained at block that a route is ready for disclosure commonly the message can originate from block of . Security features can implement with obtaining the message such as checking a notice for viruses.

A message that is obtained can be verified at action to determine if further actions should take place. For instance a vehicle device can associate with a family however a mother and father of the family can have routes displayed while children cannot. Therefore if a route message is for a child to take a particular route the message can be denied.

A check can determine if a message is allowable. For example a user can be on an important cellular telephone call it would be harmful to the user to stop the call to obtain a route so the route is not gathered. A cancellation message can be transferred to a sender and the methodology can return to obtaining messages . If a message is not allowable then no further actions can take place and the methodology can obtain a new message at block .

If the check determines the message is allowable a route can be gathered at action . Gathering of the route can include making a copy of the route as well as extracting the route from an auxiliary location e.g. a previously presented route . Messages can be sent between a device operating the methodology and a system such as if a route was successfully received if the route can be displayed etc.

The gathered route can be analyzed at event . A route can have attributes that can be taken into account when formatting or presenting a route. For example a route with a high level of detail should commonly be disclosed at a higher resolution. Moreover a consistency check can take place to ensure a route does not include errors e.g. take a user on a non existent route .

At block the route can be formatted commonly based upon analysis results. Formatting can include changing color of a route altering a route to fit within screen dimensions placing signals that when a user reaches a point in a route that the route should be zoomed etc. Checks can be made to ensure formatting has not erased or modified route information e.g. critical route information .

The route can be disclosed to the user at action typically using the formatting performed at block . For instance a route can be presented upon a screen verbal directions can be played and the like. A determination can be made on how a device should present information. For instance if a user is blind then it makes little sense to use a visual display and it can be determined that an audio display should be implemented.

For purposes of simplicity of explanation methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter were shown and described as a series of blocks. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor multiprocessor or multi core processor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed subject matter can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with the subject specification. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the specification for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction among several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Additionally it should be noted that one or more components could be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components could also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject specification but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject specification are possible. Accordingly the subject specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

