---

title: Traffic information adaptive to a user's travel
abstract: A system, method, and computer-readable medium for providing a traffic information service user with traffic information adaptive to the user's travel are described. The user's origin information, such as departure location and departure time, are identified. Upon identifying the user's origin information, the user's expected arrival times at a plurality of distance segment ends are determined. Traffic information adaptive to the user's travel are output. The traffic information may pertain to travel time, traffic flow, traffic events. The user may receive traffic information via a plurality of communication devices, such as a personal computer, a portable navigation system, a phone, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07848880&OS=07848880&RS=07848880
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07848880
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070228
---
Traffic information services allow users to make travel decisions based on current travel conditions. For example traffic information services may display maps with color coded road segments representing the most recently identified traffic condition of each displayed road segment. Traffic information services may also provide a user with estimated travel times based on recent travel conditions as well as provide a user with the latest traffic events such as traffic incidents construction and the like. While such services provide users with the most recently available traffic information they do not provide predictive traffic information.

Today as a result of the desire for predictive traffic information more advanced traffic information services are developing to incorporate traffic predictions. The traffic predictions provide users with traffic information pertaining to a specific future instance. The existing predictive traffic information services however simply predict the traffic based on a specific time. For example a user requesting predictive traffic information for 8 00 a.m. may receive a map displaying the expected traffic conditions at 8 00 a.m. for all road segments.

However static predictive information for one snapshot in time may not be valid for the entire travel route and accordingly may prevent users from making an informed travel decision. For instance a user may utilize a predictive traffic information service prior to departure to determine the predicted traffic at time A. As the user begins traveling at time A from origin to destination the predictive information for the beginning of the route may be correct but the remainder of the route however may become invalid due to the user s travel time e.g. at time B the user approaches a bottlenecked highway that was displayed as having a normal traffic flow at time A . As a result of the non adaptive travel information the user may plan a travel route based on a normal traffic flow predicted for a highway at time A but at time B when the user approached the highway the traffic was no longer moving.

In existing predictive traffic information services for a user to receive predictive traffic information that adapts to a user s travel and is valid for the entire route the user must estimate the time for arriving at multiple locations along the route and retrieve traffic information pertaining to the identified locations and corresponding estimated arrival times. Such estimation is error prone and may provide the user with inaccurate information. Further estimating arrival times for multiple locations and retrieving corresponding traffic information may be tedious and time consuming. Consequently users of traffic information services are not provided with accurate traffic information that is simply obtained.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments described below are directed to providing a traffic information service user with traffic information adaptive to the user s travel. The user s origin information such as departure location and departure time are identified. Upon identifying the user s origin information the user s expected arrival times at a plurality of distance segment ends are determined. Traffic information adaptive to the user s travel are output. The traffic information may pertain to travel time traffic flow traffic events and the like. The user may receive traffic information via a plurality of communication devices such as a personal computer a portable navigation system a phone or the like.

The subject matter described herein is presented with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the description herein is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the present invention provide techniques for providing traffic information to users. In general embodiments described herein relate to systems methods and computer readable media for providing users with traffic information that is adaptive to a user s travel time.

Accordingly in one instance an embodiment relates to traffic information systems adaptive to calculate an estimated travel completion time for a distance segment and a next distance segment. A traffic information system may include a first identifying component configured to identify a distance segment a second identifying component configured to identify a start time for beginning the distance segment a first determining component configured to determine an estimated end time for completing the distance segment wherein estimating the end time for completing the distance segment comprises utilizing traffic information existing at the start time for beginning the distance segment a third identifying component configured to identify a next distance segment the next distance segment beginning at the end of the distance segment and having a start time for beginning the next distance segment equal to the estimated end time for completing the distance segment and a second determining component configured to determine an estimated end time for completing the next distance segment wherein estimating the end time for completing the next distance segment comprises utilizing traffic information existing at the start time for beginning the next distance segment.

In another instance an embodiment relates to method for calculating the estimated time of travel completion for first and second distance segments. A method may include identifying a first distance segment identifying a departure time for beginning the first distance segment determining an estimated ending time for completing the first distance segment wherein estimating the ending time for completing the first distance segment comprises utilizing traffic information existing at the departure time for beginning the first distance segment pertaining to the first distance segment identifying a second distance segment the second distance segment starting at the end of the first distance segment and having a departure time for beginning the second distance segment equal to the estimated ending time for completing the first distance segment and determining an estimated ending time for completing the second distance segment wherein estimating the ending time for completing the second distance segment comprises utilizing traffic information existing at the departure time for beginning the second distance segment pertaining to the second distance segment.

In yet another embodiment the embodiments are directed to one or more computer readable media having computer executable instructions embodied thereon. One or more computer readable media may include identifying a distance segment identifying a departure time for beginning the distance segment determining an estimated ending time for completing the distance segment wherein estimating the ending time for completing the distance segment comprises accessing a database having traffic information pertaining to the departure time for beginning the distance segment and pertaining to the distance segment traffic identifying a next distance segment the next distance segment starting at the end of the distance segment and having a departure time for beginning the next distance segment equal to the estimated ending time for completing the distance segment and determining an estimated ending time for completing the next distance segment wherein estimating the ending time for completing the next distance segment comprises accessing a database having traffic information existing at the departure time for beginning the next distance segment and pertaining to the next distance segment traffic.

Having briefly described an overview of embodiments an exemplary operating environment suitable for use in implementing embodiments is described below.

Referring initially to an exemplary operating environment for implementing the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should computing device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated. In one embodiment computing device is a personal computer. But in other embodiments computing device may be a cell phone digital phone personal digital assistant PDA portable navigation system or other device capable of executing computer instructions.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or other machine such as a personal data assistant portable navigation system or other handheld device. Generally program modules including routines programs objects components data structures and the like refer to code that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including hand held devices consumer electronics general purpose computers more specialty computing devices etc. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

With continued reference to computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation components input output ports input output components and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be grey and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component. Also processors have memory. We recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop hand held device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computing device. 

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technologies CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical or holographic media magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices carrier wave or any other medium that can be used to encode desired information and be accessed by computing device .

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable nonremovable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O components . Presentation component s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device speaker printing component vibrating component etc.

I O ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O components some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device etc.

Client computing device may be any type of computing device such as device described above with reference to . By way of example only and not limitation client computing device may be a personal computer desktop computer laptop computer handheld device cellular phone digital phone PDA portable navigation system or the like. It should be noted that embodiments are not limited to implementations on such computing devices but may be implemented on any of a variety of different types of computing devices.

Network may include any computer network or combination thereof. Examples of computer networks configurable to operate as network include without limitation a wireless network landline cable line fiber optic line LAN WAN or the like. Network is not limited however to connections coupling separate computer units. Rather network may also comprise subsystems that transfer data between servers or computing devices. For example network may also include a point to point connection tan internal system Ethernet a backplane bus an electrical bus a neural network or other internal system. In an embodiment where network comprises a LAN networking environment components are connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. In an embodiment where network comprises a WAN networking environment components use a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN to communicate. In embodiments where network comprises a MAN networking environment components are connected to the MAN using wireless interfaces or optical fiber connections. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may also be used.

The server may include any type of application server database server or file server configurable to perform the methods described herein. In addition the server may be a dedicated or shared server. One example without limitation of a server that is configurable to operate as the server is a structured query language SQL server executing server software such as SQL Server 2005 which was developed by the Microsoft Corporation headquartered in Redmond Wash.

Components of server not shown for clarity may include without limitation a processing unit internal system memory and a suitable system bus for coupling various system components including one or more databases for storing information e.g. files and metadata associated therewith . Each server typically includes or has access to a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. In general communication media enables each server to exchange data via network . More specifically communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. As used herein the term modulated data signal refers to a signal that has one or more of its attributes set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above also may be included within the scope of computer readable media.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that networking architecture is merely exemplary. While the server is illustrated as a single box one skilled in the art will appreciate that the server is scalable. For example the server may in actuality include servers in communication. Moreover the database may be included within the server or client computing device or as a computer storage medium. The single unit depictions are meant for clarity not to limit the scope embodiments in any form.

In operation a user interacts with the client computing device via a graphical user interface. In one embodiment the graphical user interface utilizes a web browser to access a map service executing on server . Exemplary map services include Microsoft Windows Live Maps and Traffic.com . In alternative embodiments the graphical user interface accesses the map service via an application executing on the client computing device . For example the map service may be incorporated into an application such as Microsoft Streets and Trips 2007.

In an embodiment the map service is a web service configured to support interoperable machine to machine communication between the client computing device and the server . In an alternative embodiment the map service includes an application programming interface API configurable to access the database . Examples of such APIs include without limitation active data objects ADO remote data objects RDO and the like.

As shown in an exemplary computer system includes an identifying component a determining component a calculating component and an outputting component . Computer system may reside on a server a client computing device or a combination thereof.

Identifying component is a component that identifies origin information including a user s expected departure time and a user s expected departure location and destination information if applicable and desired. In one embodiment identifying component comprises time component departure component destination component and desired output component . While time component departure component destination component and desired output component are illustrated as four separate components in one skilled in the art will appreciate that the components are scalable and may in actuality be combined into a single component or a plurality of components.

Time component identifies a user s expected departure time. A user s expected departure time may be identified based on a user s input a default measure a user s access history or other departure time identification mechanism such as for example a device configured to identify a vehicle s ignition start time. An expected departure time based on a user s input may include a time selected by a user or input via a keyboard or voice. An expected departure time based on a default measure may include the present time the time the user accesses the traffic information system or a specific time following the user s request for traffic information or initial system access e.g. five minutes after logging in to the traffic information system . The specific time following the user s request for traffic information or initial system access may be based on user input a system provider s input or an algorithm. An expected departure time based on a user s access history may be determined by the most recent system accesses or an algorithm configured to include user details such as for example user s login time user s logoff time user s current location and user s destination.

Departure component identifies a user s expected departure location. A user s expected departure location may be identified based on a user s input a default measure a user s access history network infrastructure such as an IP address or other departure time identification mechanism such as for example a device configured to identify a user s or vehicle s location e.g. portable navigation system . Similar to time component an expected departure location based on a user s input may include a location selected by a user such as using a drop down menu or selecting a location on a map or input via a keyboard or voice pertaining to an address coordinate intersection or the like. An expected departure location based on a default measure may include a default to the location of the device utilizing the traffic information system such as a home location an office location a vehicle location or a user s location. An expected departure location based on a user s access history may be determined by the most recent system access locations or an algorithm configured to include user details such as for example user s current location and user s destination.

Destination component identifies a user s expected destination location. For example the expected destination location is the final location where the user desires to end travel. A user s expected destination location may be identified based on a user s input a default measure or a user s access history. An expected destination location based on a user s input may include a destination location selected by a user such as using a drop down menu or selecting a location on a map or input via a keyboard or voice pertaining to an address coordinates intersection or the like. An expected destination location based on a default measure may include a default to the location of the user s work address home address or other frequented location. An expected destination location based on a user s access history may be determined by the most recently identified destinations or an algorithm.

Desired output component identifies one or more desired outputs. Desired outputs may include output pertaining to traffic flow a traffic event a travel time or a combination thereof. Output pertaining to traffic flow refers to how fast traffic is moving and may be based at least in part on speed limits commuters rates of speed weather traffic events historical data etc. Output pertaining to traffic events may be based on traffic incidents construction community activities historical events etc. Information pertaining to a user s travel time may also be output. Travel time is the predicted amount of time a user takes to travel from one distance segment to another distance segment the predicted amount of time a user takes to travel multiple distance segments or the predicted amount of time a user takes to travel an entire route. Desired output pertaining to traffic flow a traffic event or a travel time may further pertain to one or more distance segments one or more roads a metropolitan area a state or the like. A distance segment may be a predefined distance such as a road distance or radial distance a predefined road a predefined road segment or the like. In one embodiment all information pertaining to traffic flow traffic events and travel time may be desirable.

The desired output may be selected or input by the user or may be a default based on the user s desires. Alternatively the desired output may be selected or input by the service provider or may be a default based on the service provider. In some embodiments desired output component is not necessary.

Determining component is a component that determines one or more routes and determines relevant distance segments. In one embodiment determining component comprises route component and distance segment component . While route component and distance segment component are illustrated as two separate components in one skilled in the art will appreciate that the components are scalable and may in actuality be combined into a single component or a plurality of components.

Route component determines one or more routes. A route includes one or more distance segments. A distance segment may be a predefined distance such as a road distance or radial distance a predefined road a predefined road segment or the like. In some instances one or more routes may be determined based on an identified departure location and an identified destination location or based on an identified departure location and an identified desired output pertaining to one or more specific distance segments or one or more specific roads. Multiple routes such as shortest distance route shortest time route user preferred route and the like may exist for each specific destination location distance segment or road. Alternatively a user or service provider set default may exist such that a defined number of routes such as one exist for each specific destination location distance segment or road.

In other instances one or more routes may be determined based on an identified departure location and an identified desired output pertaining to a metropolitan area or the like. In such a case a destination location need not be identified and traffic information pertaining to all major roads or even all distance segments may be displayed. Although traffic information is desired pertaining to a vicinity the system determines a plurality of routes to provide a user with traffic information adaptive to the user s travel.

In one embodiment routes may be determined based on shortest distance to each distance segment or shortest time to each distance segment. For example with reference to assume a user s origin location is point O. To determine routes for providing traffic information pertinent to the metropolitan area the system may assume that the user will travel distance segment A to arrive at the end of distance segment A. At the end of distance segment A the system will further assume that the user will travel distance segment B to arrive at the end of distance segment B rather than travel distance segments D E and F to arrive at the same point. At the end of distance segment B the system will assume that the user will travel distance segment C to arrive at the end of distance segment C rather than travel distance segments B D E F and C to arrive at the same point. Similarly at the end of distance segment B the system will also assume that the user will travel distance segment F to arrive at the end of distance segment F rather than travel distance segments B D and E to arrive at the same point. Accordingly the system determines that one route includes distance segments A B and C and another route includes distance segments A B and F.

Distance segment component determines relevant distance segments for a route. Determining relevant distance segments may increase the traffic information system s efficiency by reducing the number of distance segments analyzed. Relevant distance segments may be determined based on the desired output identified by desired output component the destination location identified by destination location or a combination thereof.

In embodiments where expected traffic flow information is a desired output relevant distance segments may include distance segments of which a user desires traffic information or distance segments having a changed traffic flow caused by for example reduced driving speeds traffic events weather etc. In such cases relevant distance segments may also include at least one distance segment on a predetermined route that may be traveled to arrive at the specified or changed distance segment. Alternatively relevant distance segments may include all distance segments within a vicinity in cases where traffic flow information pertaining to an entire area is desired.

In embodiments where traffic event information is a desired output relevant distance segments may include distance segments effected by known and expected traffic events such as for example traffic incidents construction community activities and the like. In such cases relevant distance segments may also include at least one distance segment on a predetermined route that may be traveled to arrive at the distance segment effected by known or expected traffic events. Alternatively relevant distance segments may include all distance segments within a vicinity in cases where traffic event information pertaining to an entire area is desired.

In embodiments where travel time is a desired output relevant distance segments may include any distance segment on a select number of routes on which the user may travel to arrive at a destination or any distance segment on a specific route such as a shortest distance route shortest time route on which the user may travel to arrive at a destination. Alternatively relevant distance segments may include all distance segments within a vicinity in cases where travel time for all distance segments within an area is desired.

Calculating component calculates expected arrival times for a plurality of relevant distance segment ends. An area such as roads may be divided into segments i.e. distance segments to provide more accurate traffic information output. As previously mentioned a distance segment may be a predefined distance such as a road distance or radial distance a road a road segment or a combination thereof. A distance segment end is a location a user arrives at when reaching the end of a distance segment.

Multiple methods may be utilized to calculate a user s expected time of arrival at each distance segment end. In one embodiment a geographic reference system may be used to calculate expected arrival times at distance segment ends. One skilled in the art will recognize that this method incorporates a radial distance from the departure location or other location to the road segment end and an assumed nominal travel rate. In another embodiment a routing engine may be used to compute the earliest time a user is expected to arrive at a distance segment end based on user s route. In either a geographic reference system embodiment or a routing engine embodiment a user s expected time of arrival at each distance segment end may be determined at least in part by retrieving information from a database having expected travel times.

In a more advanced and more accurate embodiment traffic conditions such as traffic flow and traffic events may be utilized to calculate a user s expected time of arrival at distance segment ends. In such a case upon identifying expected origin information to calculate an expected arrival time for a distance segment end the expected arrival time for the previous distance segment end as well as the expected travel time on the distance segment of interest is determined. Accordingly calculating expected arrival times for distance segment ends begins with the distance segment nearest the departure location and depends on distance segment travel conditions at expected travel times. By way of illustration refer to and assume segment is the distance segment closest to the departure location e.g. home and user departed from home at 8 00. The user is expected to proceed on distance segment for six minutes and arrive at the end of distance segment at 8 06. Because the user is expected to arrive at the end of distance segment at 8 06 the user is also expected to begin distance segment at 8 06. The user is expected to have a distance segment travel time of seven minutes and thus arrive at the end of distance segment at 8 13. The procedure continues until the user arrives at the destination located at the end of distance segment at 8 31.

With respect to the advanced embodiment numerous factors may be included in determining the user s expected travel time on a specific distance segment at a specific time such as for example traffic flow traffic events and historical traffic information. Traffic flow may include the rate of speed commuters are driving on road segments and may incorporate the speed limit road type weather conditions special zones e.g. school zones and traffic events. Traffic events include among other things traffic incidents road construction community events such as sporting events etc. In one embodiment the user s expected travel time on a specific distance segment at a specific time may be determined by retrieving traffic condition information from a database having expected traffic conditions.

A user may request traffic condition or travel time information related to routes to a specified destination or routes to a specified distance segment or road. In such a case the destination may be identified at destination component and the computer system may utilize one of the three methods mentioned above i.e. geographical reference system routing engine or expected traffic conditions to calculate the user s expected time of arrival at each distance segment end on each route. Traffic information such as traffic flow and traffic events may be output pertaining to each distance segment based on the expected arrival time for the preceding distance segment end. Additionally the arrival times for each distance segment end may be summed to attain an expected travel time that is adaptive to the user s travel. One or more travel times may be calculated depending on the number of routes.

Alternatively a user may request traffic information pertaining to a metropolitan area or other vicinity. In such a case a destination location need not be identified and traffic information pertaining to all highways or even all distance segments may be displayed. To calculate arrival times at segment route ends the system relies on the multiple routes determined at route component . The computer system may utilize one of the three methods mentioned above i.e. geographical reference system routing engine or expected traffic conditions to calculate the user s expected time of arrival at each distance segment end on the predetermined routes. For example with reference to assume the user s origin location is point O and information pertaining to a metropolitan area is the desired output. The system will calculate the expected time of arrival at the end of distance segment A. Based on the expected time of arrival at the end of distance segment A traffic information for distance segments B and D will be output pursuant to that time. Based on the expected time of arrival at the end of distance segment B traffic information for distance segments C and F will be output pursuant to the calculated time. For instance based on the expected arrival time at the end of distance segment B the traffic flow for distance segment C is displayed as 25 45 miles per hour for the first portion of the segment and changes to 0 25 miles per hour for the end portion of distance segment C.

In addition to displaying traffic flow and traffic event information for a metropolitan area travel times based on the calculated expected time of arrivals at each distance segment end may also be displayed even though no destination is specified. In one instance a map may display a symbol at distance segment ends and a user may select the symbol such that the travel time from the user s departure location to the distance segment end will be displayed.

Outputting component outputs traffic information pertaining to traffic flow traffic events travel time or a combination thereof. An outputting component residing on a server outputs traffic information to a client computing device such as client computing device . An outputting component residing on a client computer outputs traffic information to the user via a graphical user interface GUI . Outputting component may determine the traffic information to output pursuant to the desired output identified by desired output component .

The traffic information output by outputting component may result in modifying displaying or removing particular traffic information. For example with respect to traffic events the severity of a traffic incident may be adjusted based on predicted progress of the incident e.g. an incident that is being cleared may be completely cleared by the time the user arrives and hence should be downgraded or removed . On the other hand a new incident may be displayed if it becomes relevant by the time the user is expected to arrive e.g. scheduled road maintenance .

Traffic information pertaining to traffic flow may be output. Traffic flow may be based at least in part on speed limits commuters rates of speed weather traffic events and historical data. Traffic flow may be graphically represented in a variety of methods. For example traffic flow may be graphically depicted on a map by simply utilizing different road segment colors to indicate different traffic flows. Various road segment colors may be used for example to indicate assorted rates of speed or reductions in rate of speeds e.g. red road segments indicate nonmoving traffic or traffic moving at a speed of zero to twenty five miles per hour yellow road segments indicate traffic moving at reduced speeds or traffic moving at a speed of twenty five to forty five miles per hour green road segments indicate free flowing traffic or traffic moving at a speed of more than forty five miles per hour . Alternatively traffic flow may be graphically depicted on a map by using different display formats such as solid broken or dashed lines. provides a display of traffic flow graphically depicted. Traffic flow may also be described by value text or symbol representations. For example a value of 10 on a scale of 1 to 10 the word outstanding or four stars may represent the traffic is free flowing or traveling at a speed of more than forty five miles per hour. One skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of different graphical numerical textual or symbolical representations may be used to differentiate various traffic flow conditions. Whether traffic flow is depicted graphically quantitatively textually or symbolically the traffic flow may pertain to one or more specific distance segments specific roads specific routes roads in a metropolitan area and roads in a state.

In another embodiment traffic events may be output. Traffic events may include traffic incidents construction community activities and historical events. Traffic events may also be output via a graphical depiction such as an icon positioned on a map display near the traffic event. provides a display of traffic events graphically depicted. Traffic events may also be described by numerical and textual representations. For example a value of 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 or the word construction may represent that construction on a road segment is delaying traffic. Furthermore details pertaining to the traffic event may also be output such as for example severity level location description start time and estimated end time. One skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of different graphical numerical and textual representations may be used to differentiate various traffic events. Whether traffic events are depicted graphically quantitatively or textually the traffic details output may pertain to one or more specific distance segments specific roads specific routes roads in a metropolitan area roads in a state or the like.

In yet another embodiment a user s calculated travel time may be output. Travel time is the predicted amount of time a user takes to travel from one distance segment to another distance segment the predicted amount of time a user takes to travel multiple distance segments or the predicted amount of time a user takes to travel an entire route. Travel time may also be output via a graphical depiction a value text and the like. For example the value 5 the words five minutes or two stars may represent a travel time of approximately five minutes or a relatively short travel time. One skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of different graphical numerical or textual representations may be used to differentiate various travel times.

In one instance a destination may be identified by destination component to output a user s travel time. The arrival times for each road segment end may be summed to attain an expected travel time that is adaptive to the user s travel. One or more arrival times may be calculated depending on the number of routes. In an alternative embodiment a destination need not be identified by destination component . In such a case because no destination is identified calculating arrival times to road segment ends may be performed in a manner similar to that which may be used to calculate arrival times at road segment ends for outputting traffic flow information where no destination exists. In one instance a map may display a symbol at road segment ends or selected road segment ends and a user may select the symbol such that the travel time from the user s departure location to the road segment end will be displayed.

At block the desired output is identified. Desired outputs may include outputs pertaining to traffic flow a traffic event a travel time or a combination thereof. Desired output may be input or selected by the user or the service provider. At block a route is determined. In embodiments where a destination location is identified or where a travel time traffic flow or traffic event pertaining to a one or more specific distance segments or roads are the desired output the route may be based on the shortest distance shortest time preferred route designated by the user or the like to get to the predetermined end point. In embodiments where destination locations are not identified and the desired output pertains to a metropolitan area for example routes may be determined by algorithms. The algorithms may be configured to include shortest distance or shortest time calculations.

The relevant distance segments are determined at block . Relevant distance segments may be determined based on the desired output identified by desired output component the destination location identified by destination location or a combination thereof. Relevant distance segments may include one or more distance segments or roads that are of interest to the user distance segments positioned on a route to one or more distance segments or roads that are of interest to the user road segments on a route where a destination location is identified or all distance segments in a vicinity.

At block the relevant distance segment nearest the departure location is determined. The expected arrival time for the distance segment end identified at block is calculated at block . At block the expected arrival time for the distance segment end and any associated traffic flow or traffic events are stored. For example with reference to distance segment is the nearest distance segment to the departure location and has an expected completion time of 8 06 the traffic flow is normal and there are no incidents for the segment.

The next distance segment of the route is determined at block and the expected arrival time for the respective distance segment end utilizing the completion time for the previous distance segment end is calculated at block . At block the expected arrival time for the distance segment end and any associated traffic flow or traffic events are stored.

At block it is determined whether anymore distance segments in the route exist. If there are more distance segments blocks through are revisited until no more distance segments exist in the predetermined route. When it is determined that no additional distance segments exist in the predetermined route at block it is determined whether other routes having relevant road segments exist. If so blocks through are revisited until no other routes having relevant road segments exist. When no other routes having relevant road segments exist at block the desired output traffic information is output at block . In one embodiment at block the traffic information is provided to the user.

By way of illustration with reference to and user begins at departure location O at 8 00 a.m. and inputs a destination location of the end of distance segment . At block the user selects the desired output to include traffic events traffic flow and travel time pertaining to a shortest distance route from departure location O to destination location of the end of distance segment . At block the route is determined and relevant distance segments and are determined at block . At block it is determined that the distance segment located closest to the departure location is segment . The traffic flow for segment is determined to have a normal traffic flow and segment has no traffic events. The calculated estimated arrival time for distance segment end is 8 06 a.m. based on the expected traffic conditions of segment . The traffic information including arrival time traffic flow and traffic events are stored at block . At block the next distance segment is identified. At block utilizing traffic information for segment at 8 06 the completion time of segment it is determined that the expected arrival time for distance segment end is 8 13 a.m. because of a slow traffic flow due to construction. The traffic information is stored at block . At block it is again determined that there are more distance segments in the route and at block the next distance segment is identified. At block utilizing traffic information for distance segment at 8 13 it is determined that the expected arrival time for distance segment end is 8 20 and that there are no traffic events and the traffic flow is normal for distance segment at arrival time 8 20. The traffic information is stored at block . At block it is again determined that there are more distance segments in the route and at block the next distance segment is identified. At block utilizing traffic information for segment at 8 20 it is determined that the expected arrival time for distance segment end is 8 26 a.m. and that the traffic flow of segment is blocked at arrival time 8 26 due to a traffic incident. The traffic information is stored at block . At block it is again determined that there are more distance segments in the route and at block the next distance segment is identified. At block utilizing traffic information for segment at 8 26 it is determined that the expected arrival time for distance segment end is 8 31 and that the traffic flow of distance segment is normal and there are no traffic events at arrival time 8 31. The traffic information is stored at block .

At block it is determined that there are no further relevant distance segments in the route determined at block . At block it is further determined that there are no further routes available to travel from departure location O to destination location at the end of segment . The desired traffic information pertaining to traffic flow traffic events and travel time are output at block .

The embodiments have been described herein in relation to particular embodiments which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from its scope.

From the foregoing it will be seen that this invention is one well adapted to attain all the ends and objects set forth above together with other advantages which are obvious and inherent to the system and method. It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations. This is contemplated by and is within the scope of the claims.

