---

title: Systems and methods for distributing and viewing electronic documents
abstract: The invention relates to systems and methods for distributing and viewing electronic documents. In one embodiment, the invention provides a system for distributing electronic versions of printed documents comprising a memory device and a distribution system. The memory device is in operable communication with a content provider and stores at least one electronic document file that is based at least in part on a source electronic document provided by the content provider, wherein the source electronic document is an electronic version of a printed document. The distribution system is in operable communication with the memory device and is programmed for responding to requests from a client for delivery of an electronic document file, retrieving a copy of the requested electronic document file from the memory device, assigning at least one right to the copy of the electronic document file, the right defining the scope of at least one action capable of being be performed on at least a portion of the copy of the electronic document file, encrypting the copy of the electronic document file with a key based at least in part on the identity of the client and on the at least one right, and providing the copy of the electronic document file, with the associated key, to the client.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08561205&OS=08561205&RS=08561205
owner: Zinio, LLC
number: 08561205
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070918
---
This is a Continuation of application Ser. No. 09 897 190 filed Jul. 2 2001now U.S. Pat. No. 7 290 285 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 215 683 filed Jun. 30 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to devices systems and methods for permitting a user to acquire content and view the content on a viewing device such as the screen of a computer. More particularly the invention relates to systems and methods for distributing viewing electronic documents that provide a user with the ability to view pages of a document such as such as a magazine in a format that looks the same as the conventional printed version of the document and which permit the user to interact with portions of those pages in ways that may not be possible with the conventional printed version of the document.

A huge quantity of printed magazines newspapers and books are widely distributed in the traditional paper format. In addition to using lots of paper to manufacture these products the distribution i.e. shipping transportation and display of books magazines and newspapers consumes a lot of resources as well. The readers of many of these publications such as newspapers and magazines discard them shortly after the user is done reading them thus adding to the burden of waste disposal.

With the increased growth and popularity of the Internet many publishers have been turning to distributing their publications in alternate formats such as in online format and or via media such as compact disk read only memories CD ROMS . With this technique a user can instead read the publication on the screen of his or her personal computer PC . At the present time however despite the availability of such publications consumers have been slow to accept reading from a computer screen. In response to the lukewarm response by consumers makers of personal digital assistants PDA devices such as the Palm TV available from Palm Inc. 5470 Great America Parkway Santa Clara Calif. and of electronic books E books such as the ROCKET EBOOK and or SOFTBOOK available from NUVOMEDIA Inc. 310 Villa Street Mountain View Calif. have attempted to provide devices and systems that attempt to more closely simulate the experience of reading an actual book. These devices are small and lightweight like most books magazines and newspapers but still do not provide the same experience as reading all of these types of publications. Because the screen size on the PDA s and ROCKET EBOOKS is relatively small it is difficult to put an entire page of a newspaper or magazine on the screen of either of these devices. In addition neither device permits the reader to see the entire page exactly as it appears in the conventional published document. Also these devices have low resolution and use proprietary software and or proprietary Internet based language requirements.

Another disadvantage of such devices is that publications made available on such devices must be translated and recomposed for their screens and systems. The ROCKET EBOOK for example calculates pages for each book depending on the font style size and page orientation chosen. Because these factors make paging relative the same book on different ROCKET EBOOK with different settings will have different page numbers. This feature while acceptable for publications such as novels is less satisfactory for publications having tables of contents such as magazines and other periodicals. In addition the page layout colors arrangement illustrations and even advertisements form an integral part of the magazine s enjoyability and the convenience of the reading experience. These devices do not provide this type of experience during use.

One device that attempts to provide the experience of having the same format for reading books is called the EVERYBOOK manufactured by EVERYBOOK Inc. 2300 Vartan Way Harrisburg Pa. The EVERYBOOK devices use existing print files from publishers and display them exactly as they would appear in print. One device offered by this manufacturer called the EB Journal offers full page dual screens a color display and provides storage for up to 200 fully illustrated reference books or 2 000 novels on each secure removable storage card. To acquire content users of the EVERYBOOK devices communicate directly with the content provider.

Although some devices and systems such as the EB Journal might be able to enable users to read books in a format that approximates the way the book looks in print such devices and systems do not enhance the reader s experience by taking full advantage of the capabilities now offered by wireless and cellular technology or the interactive capabilities inherent in reading a document electronically. In addition known devices systems and methods do not provide users with an experience that replicates some of the most desired aspects of using conventional printed publications such as tearing out pages marking and or dog earring a page or passing the magazine along to another reader. In addition most users want to view entire pages at once with the pages having an appearance layout and quality similar to that of the printed paper publication. Many users also want to be able to view opposing pages to a given page at the same time as viewing a given page as they can with a conventional magazine .

In one aspect the present invention provides systems and methods for distributing and viewing electronic documents such as magazines periodicals books etc. which closely simulate the experience of reading the printed counterparts.

The invention relates to systems and methods for distributing and viewing electronic documents. In one embodiment the invention provides a system for distributing electronic versions of printed documents comprising a memory device and a distribution system. The memory device is in operable communication with a content provider and stores at least one electronic document file that is based at least in part on a source electronic document provided by the content provider wherein the source electronic document is an electronic version of a printed document.

The distribution system is in operable communication with the memory device and is programmed for responding to requests from a client for delivery of an electronic document file retrieving a copy of the requested electronic document file from the memory device assigning at least one right to the copy of the electronic document file the right defining the scope of at least one action capable of being performed on at least a portion of the copy of the electronic document file encrypting the copy of the electronic document file with a key based at least in part on the identity of the client and on the at least one right and providing the copy of the electronic document file with the associated key to the client.

Embodiments of the invention can include the following. In one embodiment the at least one right relates to the scope of at least one action capable of being performed by the client receiving the copy of the electronic document file such as annotating copying printing forwarding editing highlighting tabbing storing and making at least a portion of the electronic document file available to another client. In one embodiment the electronic document file stored in the memory device includes at least one element that was not present in the source electronic document such as audio information video information textual information graphic information and links to locations on a computer network. In one embodiment the system further comprises a conversion module in operable communication with the memory device the conversion module transforming the source electronic document into the electronic document file.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for viewing electronic documents. A request is sent for an electronic document file to a server the request associated with a given user. An electronic document file is received the electronic document file encrypted by a key uniquely associated with the user wherein the key includes at least one right defining how the user can use the electronic document file. The electronic document file is displayed to the user and the user is permitted to interact with the electronic document file in accordance with the at least one right.

Additional embodiments include the following. In one embodiment the step of permitting user interaction with the electronic document file further comprises treating facing pages of document as single page for the purposes performing operations on the page. In one embodiment information is recorded relating to the user s usage of the electronic document file such as the user s readership of the file and or the user s passing along of at least a portion of the file to another client.

In one aspect at least one embodiment of the invention provides a system that is usable with a device for reading the electronic document. In one embodiment the device for reading is an electronic device such as a general purpose computer. In one embodiment the device is a portable wireless device such as an electronic book reader device. The systems methods and devices of the present invention also enable users to access and acquire content such as electronic magazines and other periodicals via a data server in communication with publishers of the document content providers or a computer network such as the Internet. In at least one embodiment the systems and methods of the invention enable users to seamlessly interact with the displayed document providing features similar to conventional printed documents such as realistic page turning page tear out page marking and pass along to others. In at least one embodiment the invention provides systems and methods for reading an electronic document that go beyond the capabilities of conventional printed documents such as interaction with advertisers embedding links audio video and further information within the document tracking of readership and the like.

In another embodiment the invention provides a system for distributing an electronic version of a printed document comprising means for storing at least one electronic document file means for receiving a request for a copy of the electronic document file from a client means for encrypting a copy of the electronic document file and means for distributing the encrypted copy of the electronic document file. The means for storing at least one electronic document file stores an electronic document file based at least in part on a source electronic document provided by a content provider where the source electronic document is an electronic version of a printed document.

The means for encrypting a copy of the electronic document file encrypts the copy of the electronic document file with a key defining at least one right associated with the client that sent the request and is in operable communication with the means for storing and the means for receiving. The right defines at least one action capable of being performed on at least a portion of the copy of the electronic document file. The means for distributing the electronic document file is in communication with the means for encrypting and provides a copy of the encrypted electronic document file and the key to the client requesting a copy of the electronic document file.

Additional embodiments of the invention may include the following. In one embodiment the system further comprises a means for converting the source electronic document into an electronic document file. In one embodiment the system further comprises a means for reading the electronic document file.

In another aspect a system implemented in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention includes a reader a data server module and a data converter module. The data converter module communicates with content providers such as publishers to receive document layouts e.g. magazine layouts that correspond to the actual print versions of the published document. The data converter module converts the received document layout information to an enhanced document having a predetermined format such as the portable document format PDF . This format matches the format of the images and text as they appear on the magazine pages. In at least one embodiment the enhanced document format adds additional information such as links to the document. The data server module communicates with the reader to send that actual content e.g. magazines updates to content and other requested information to the reader. The user of the reader uses the reader to read the magazine. The reader communicates with the data server module to receive content and send communications from the user and user information including requests to purchase or subscribe to a particular periodical. The reader can also provide the data server with magazine usage and or readership information.

In at least one embodiment the reader is embodied on a computing device that uses two color liquid crystal display LCD screens to provide an electronic magazine system having the look and feel of a conventional magazine. The device does not require a keyboard for the user to transmit information to the data Server. Instead software running on the device displays onscreen buttons that permit the user to touch the buttons to send messages and communicate with the data Server e.g. send messages select magazines to receive dog ear a particular page being read add a bookmark tear out pages virtually any action that the user can do with a conventional printed paper magazine . As will be described herein in at least one embodiment the systems and methods of the invention provides additional enhancements for users that are not available or possible with the conventional printed magazine experience. For example by touching predetermined parts of the displayed page the user can indicate that he or she wants to receive additional information relating to some part of the page wants specific information relating to the particular area he or she is touching or that the user wants to purchase a product or service offered for sale which is being touched via the publication. For example in an embodiment a user can using just the wireless reader device easily and instantly place an order for any product or service advertised in the magazine by an advertiser capable of receiving electronic order from the data server module.

In at least one embodiment the electronic magazine system includes a hard wired local area network LAN link to the reader to allow rapid updating of content or access to archived back issues. In addition the electronic magazine system provides wireless data transfer to enable real time e commerce transactions in response to advertisements.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention.

As used herein the Internet refers at least to the worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. The World Wide Web WWW refers at least to the total set of inter linked hypertext documents residing on hypertext transport protocol HTTP servers all around the world. As used herein the WWW also refers at least to documents accessed on secure servers such as HTTP servers HTTPS which provide for encryption and transmission through a secure port. WWW documents which may be referred to herein as web pages can for example be written in hypertext markup language HTML . As used herein the term web site refers at least to one or more related HTML documents and associated files scripts and databases that may be presented by an HTTP or HTTPS server on the WWW. The term web browser refers at least to software that lets a user view HTML documents and access files and software related to those documents.

Systems and methods in accordance with the invention can be implemented using any type of general purpose computer system such as a personal computer PC laptop computer server workstation personal digital assistant PDA mobile communications device interconnected group of general purpose computers and the like running any one of a variety of operating systems. In some embodiments systems and methods implemented in accordance with the invention may incorporate and or be usable with readers and reading devices capable of reading electronic contents such as electronic books tablet and notebook computers and screens and the like. An example of a general purpose computer system usable with at least one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in .

Referring briefly to the general purpose computer system includes a central processor a main memory unit for storing programs and or data an input output controller a network interface a display device one or more input devices a fixed or hard disk drive unit a floppy disk drive unit a tape drive unit and a data bus coupling these components to allow communication therebetween.

The central processor can be any type of microprocessor such as a PENTIUM processor made by Intel of Santa Clara Calif. The display device can be any type of display such as a liquid crystal display LCD cathode ray tube display CRT light emitting diode LED and the like capable of displaying in whole or in part the outputs generated in accordance with the systems and methods of the invention. The input device can be any type of device capable of providing the inputs described herein such as keyboards numeric keypads touch screens pointing devices switches styluses and light pens. The network interface can be any type of a device card adapter or connector that provides the computer system with network access to a computer or other device such as a printer. In one embodiment of the present invention the network interface enables the computer system to connect to a computer network such as the Internet.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems embodying the present invention need not include every element shown in and that equivalents to each of the elements are intended to be included within the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the computer system need not include the tape drive and may include other types of drives such as compact disk read only memory CD ROM drives. CD ROM drives can for example be used to store some or all of the databases described herein.

In at least one embodiment of the invention one or more computer programs define the operational capabilities of the computer system . These programs can be loaded into the computer system in many ways such as via the hard disk drive the floppy disk drive the tape drive or the network interface . Alternatively the programs can reside in a permanent memory portion e.g. a read only memory ROM chip of the main memory . In another embodiment the computer system can include specially designed dedicated hard wired electronic circuits that perform all functions described herein without the need for instructions from computer programs.

In at least one embodiment of the present invention the computer system is part of a client server system in which a client sends requests to a server and a server responds to requests from a client. That is the computer system can be either a client system or a server system. In one embodiment the invention is implemented at the server side and receives and responds to requests from a client such as a reader application running on a user computer.

The client can be any entity such as a the computer system or specific components thereof e.g. terminal personal computer mainframe computer workstation hand held device electronic book personal digital assistant peripheral etc. or a software program running on a computer directly or indirectly connected or connectable in any known or later developed manner to any type of computer network such as the Internet. For example a representative client is a personal computer that is x86 PowerPC PENTIUM based or RISC based that includes an operating system such as IBM LINUX OS 2 or MICROSOFT WINDOWS made by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and that includes a Web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR made by Netscape Corporation Mountain View Calif. having a Java Virtual Machine JVM and support for application plug ins or helper applications. A client may also be a notebook computer a handheld computing device e.g. a PDA an Internet appliance a telephone an electronic reader device or any other such device connectable to the computer network.

The server can be any entity such as the computer system a computer platform an adjunct to a computer or platform or any component thereof such as a program that can respond to requests from a client. Of course a client can be broadly construed to mean one who requests or gets the file and server can be broadly construed to be the entity that downloads the file. The server also may include a display supporting a graphical user interface GUI for management and administration and an Application Programming Interface API that provides extensions to enable application developers to extend and or customize the core functionality thereof through software programs including Common Gateway Interface CGI programs plug ins servlets active server pages server side include SSI functions and the like.

In addition software embodying the present invention in one embodiment resides in an application running on the computer system . In at least one embodiment the present invention is embodied in a computer readable program medium usable with the general purpose computer system . In at least one embodiment the present invention is embodied in a data structure stored on a computer or a computer readable program medium. In addition in one embodiment the present invention is embodied in a transmission medium such as one or more carrier wave signals transmitted between the computer system and another entity such as another computer system a server a wireless network etc. The present invention also in an embodiment is embodied in an application programming interface API or a user interface. In addition the present invention in one embodiment is embodied in a data structure.

For the purpose of explanation embodiments of the present invention will be discussed in connection with the example of systems and methods associated with distributing procuring accessing reading subscribing to sharing viewing and or storing electronic magazines. It should be understood however that the foregoing explanation of the embodiments of the present invention is equally applicable to other types of electronic documents as well such as books newspapers periodicals reports papers brochures catalogs manuals and the like as well as with other types of actions that can be taken with these documents.

The system receives publications such as magazines from a publisher s pre press . The publications are encoded in a document format such as the Portable Document Format PDF available from ADOBE Systems of San Jose Calif. After converting these publications to a proprietary format which is described herein and after applying appropriate circulation and encryption operations as described herein the publications are made available to users who can view and or read the publications using the reader described herein. In at least one embodiment the publications after conversion and encryptions are provided to third parties such as a retail transaction service which can then act as a provider for users using the reader .

The publisher s pre press represents in at least one embodiment entities such as current publishers of print magazines which typically supply their layouts in PDF Quark or other well known publishing program formats. In current conventional printed magazine production the publisher s pre press typically receives original artwork from clients and publishers e.g. advertisers agencies etc. and scans the artwork at low resolution 72 dots per inch dpi to high resolution 300 dpi . The publisher creates a composite page comprising the low resolution artwork from the pre press plus text graphics and formatting which results in a file format such as Quark. The pre press then converts the composite file to a raster image processor RIP file such as tagged image file format TIFF or TIFF IT or desktop color specification DCS 2 format a format used for example to exchange bitmap images between pre press applications substituting high resolution images for low resolution images. The pre press then sends the RIP file to a printer where the plates are made from the RIP file then the file is printed.

The pre press data store is a storage system such as a database that stores publications from publishers in their existing document e.g. PDF files . These publications are generated by the publisher s pre press house but they also may be generated by another source capable of providing a publication in the requisite input format.

To be compatible with the conventional publisher pre press process described above in at least one embodiment the present invention uses at least one of the following techniques for generating the PDF files.

In one embodiment PDF files stored in the pre press data store are derived live with low resolution pictures by taking the files directly from the publisher such as QUARK files then creating the PDF file from the Quark file. One advantage of this method is that the proprietary pre press service need only deal with the publisher but one disadvantage is that the pictures can sometimes have poorer quality than those created using other methods.

In one embodiment prior to PDF generation a high resolution picture is substituted for a low resolution picture by taking the Quark files directly from the publisher taking a high resolution picture from a publisher pre press system substituting the high resolution picture for the low resolution picture then creating the PDF file. One advantage of this method is that the pictures may be of better quality than with the low resolution technique in fact this method often will produce the best quality pictures but one disadvantage is that more parties may be involved in the creation of the file which can increase the time that the process takes.

In one embodiment prior to PDF generation a pre press system generates a medium resolution picture for use by the publisher prior to the publisher s creating a PDF or Quark file. Then the proprietary pre press service takes the Quark PDF file directly from the publisher and creates a file in a proprietary format such as ZDF from it. One advantage of this method is that the picture quality is better than the low resolution method but not as good as the high resolution method. Two disadvantages are that this method creates extra work for the pre press system and that the medium level resolution can vary for different publications because of different sized pages.

Referring again to the proprietary pre press service which by way of example is shown in as a Zinio pre press is a service that manages access to publisher PDF files as they are converted into a proprietary data format. In at least one embodiment the proprietary pre press service acts as a data converter and organizer which converts files stored in the pre press data store to a digital picture format and adds the interaction elements to create the electronic magazine of the invention. In at least one embodiment the proprietary pre press service also organizes information provided by the publisher and transmitted to the user e.g. updates subscription information offers for new services and publications and the like .

By way of example in the embodiment shown in the publisher PDF files are converted to a format called Zinio data Format ZDF . In one embodiment this is done by adding data to the PDF file that the reader will interpret in a pre determined way. For example certain data added will permit the reader to link a given document to an audio or video file. In this example the ZDF format is similar to the PDF format in that the on screen electronic document will look exactly like the conventional printed paper version of the document but the ZDF format differs from the PDF format in that the ZDF format permits more interaction elements that appear in the document. For example in the ZDF format readers of the document can click on various areas of the document to hear audio files interact with advertisers go directly to web links get additional information etc. Referring again to the magazine data store stores ZDF files ready for encryption by the magazine encryption and distribution Service .

The magazine encryption and distribution service is a service that interfaces with the reader to validate the user conduct the commercial transaction and determine which magazine to deliver. In addition the magazine encryption and distribution service performs the encryption process to convert a ZDF file into a ZNO file this process is explained more fully herein .

The commerce service of the system manages the commerce transaction requests from the reader and interfaces with 3party retailers and or catalog order systems to manage orders on behalf of the user of the reader . The catalog order systems are systems owned by catalog companies that are used to receive and process orders. The commerce service enables the user of the reader to order and or obtain further information about manufacturers and or goods appearing in the magazines that the user browses reads using the reader . These features are explained more fully herein.

The circulation service is a service that generates various reports from the circulation database . The circulation database stores circulation information for billing auditing and other reporting purposes. The circulation service also provides data to the reporting service .

The users database stores user information regarding the magazine issues the user has downloaded and the keys for those downloads. The user s individual key is also stored here.

The update service updates the configuration of the reader when the user enters the newsstand area of the reader . The update service is explained more fully herein in connection with .

Pass along refers to the practice of one user passing along his or her copy of a magazine. Pass along is a key practice in the magazine industry and at least one embodiment of the invention supports the practice of sharing magazines. For example this is accomplished by using the keys that were assigned when the files were downloaded. The pass along service receives pass along requests and determines whether an access key should be sent. If access is granted the pass along service also encrypts the key for transmission to the reader . The pass along database stores access rights pertinent to each issue for reference in determining pass along access. Pass along is explained more fully herein. The pass along database stores access rights pertinent to each issue for reference in determining pass along access.

The magazine usage database stores usage data collected from the reader and the magazine usage service collects magazine usage data from the reader .

The reporting service has access to the users database the circulation database the pass along database and magazine usage database . The reporting service when requested by another entity e.g. a client which can for example be a publisher generates reports from information stored in these databases. In at least one embodiment of the invention the reporting service gathers data from the various databases in the system including the users database for demographics and aggregates the data into various reports. For example the reporting service can generate reports based in information in the circulation database to satisfy a publisher s audit reporting requirements. In at least one embodiment the reporting service works with one or more of the other services in the system e.g. the circulation service the magazine encryption and distribution service the pass along service and or the magazine usage service to gather specific data relating to the reading of the magazines e.g. advertisement responses and orders . This is discussed more fully herein.

The retail transaction service is a service at a third party retailer that handles the commercial transaction for the purchase of a magazine and then requests the download file from the magazine encryption and distribution service for delivery to the user. For example a third party retailer such as AMAZON.COM can host a retail transaction service .

The 3party retailer represents a system owned by a 3party retailer to receive and process orders and to provide information as requested.

The reader which is labeled in by way of example only as a Zinio reader includes client software that provides the user interface into the system as well as access to the documents. In at least one embodiment the reader functions are accomplished by running client software on a general purpose computer such as the one described previously . In other embodiments the reader functions are accomplished by running client software on any device capable of displaying the magazines in a readable format such as a dedicated electronic book reading devices. For example future versions of devices such as the SOFTBOOK family of devices available from GEMSTAR E book of Redwood City Calif. which have the requisite display and processing power can be used to run the reader . In at least one embodiment the system employs one or more of the following security features. For example communication links such as with components outside of the system and or the reader occur over a secure channel such as direct lines virtual private networks VPNs or secure sockets layer SSL links. Internally databases that contain sensitive user information e.g. credit card numbers are encrypted such as at the field level. In at least one embodiment only those data elements that are sensitive are encrypted. This can allow quicker access to the records in the databases. In another example embodiment access to internal servers and databases is secured by firewalls and through the limited use of trusted hosts.

In one embodiment physical access to the servers and databases is be regulated. For example in one embodiment individual access to machines and applications requires login ID s and passwords. In at least one embodiment biometric security devices are used for authentication and or identification. In some embodiments intrusion tests are conducted to determine any unforeseen vulnerabilities.

As described herein using the system shown in along with a reader programmed to interact with the system users can access and acquire content such as electronic magazines and other periodicals and seamlessly interact with the content they acquire. is a flow chart illustrating at a high level some of a user s possible interactions with the reader of in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. For example users can get the magazine they want to read step in ways similar to those used with conventional printed magazines via subscription single copy purchase from a user s archive of magazines e.g. like an electronic bookshelf or magazine rack or even after a magazine has been passed along from another user.

After acquiring the magazine step a user reads and or browses the magazine step on the screen of the device running the reader e.g. on the screen of a computer a PDA an electronic book reading device etc. . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention in addition to reading the document in a manner similar to reading a conventional magazine the user is able to perform other conventional functions such as clipping articles step marking or tabbing also referred to as dog ear pages step and flipping pages with realistic animation step . The user also is able to perform non conventional functions that go beyond the capabilities of conventional printed documents such as interacting with advertisers and or ordering products step viewing animations associated with the magazine and or content therein step and utilizing links step to view other content web sites files including audio and video files information etc.

As with many conventional magazines the user can pass along the magazine or at least a portion of it to another user reader step if desired and allowed. Unlike conventional magazines however in some embodiments of the invention the rights associated with the magazine permit the original user to still have access to at least a portion of the magazine even though the magazine or at least a portion of it has been passed along to another. In at least one embodiment of the invention however when a user passes along a magazine or a portion of the magazine the user loses access to what was passed along. If desired the magazine is stored in an archive step for future access reading and browsing.

To accomplish some of the actions shown in the flowchart of the reader interacts with the system of . is a flow chart showing at a high level the types of interactions that a reader has with the system along with other actions the reader may take in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Note that each of the actions shown in is explained in greater detail in the examples and figures described herein.

Referring to both and to begin the interaction a user goes to an area of the reader called a newsstand newsstands are explained more fully herein . When the reader determines that the user has entered the newsstand area step the reader connects to the system . If usage information is available e.g. about the magazines that that the user has viewed the reader provides that information to the magazine usage service step . For example in the embodiment of the reader which by way of example only is called a Zinio Reader sends a file called a Zinio Magazine Usage ZMU file to the magazine usage service . As explained further herein if the user has not previously viewed any magazines or if this is the first time that a user is entering the newsstand the reader may not have usage information to provide to the magazine usage service .

If the reader requires updating the reader gets update files from the update service step . The system then provides to the reader through the magazine encryption and distribution service access to at least one magazine in the magazine data store . If the user wants to purchase the magazine or to get a copy of the magazine if the user has a subscription the user selects it step and the magazine is provided to the reader so that the reader can display it step . For example in the example embodiment of the magazine is provided in a proprietary format called a ZNO file.

While the user is reading the magazine the reader tracks usage step such as which articles were browsed which were read which were skipped how long a user spent on an article whether an article was torn out whether an article was re read etc. In at least one embodiment of the invention to address privacy concerns the reader does not record personally identifiable information as part of the magazine usage data and the user is free to view the log of magazine usage data.

If the user wants to order a product or contact a retailer the reader communicates the information to the commerce service step which contacts the retailer on behalf of the user.

If the user wants to pass the magazine along to another entity e.g. to an organization or to another user the reader communicates the pass along information to the pass along service step . If the user wants to store or archive the magazine the reader archives the magazine in a location designated by the user step . The steps of can be repeated step if the user wants to read browse additional magazines whether from the newsstand or from the archive step .

Having outlined the features that at least some embodiments of the invention provide the operation of the system and the reader is now discussed in greater detail in accordance with an example embodiment of the invention.

The proprietary pre press service then uses the files from the pre press data store to create the proprietary data format e.g. ZDF files by adding links and other metadata consistent with the final proprietary e.g. ZNO data format step . Initially an application such as ADOBE ACROBAT is used in one embodiment to manually create the links. In some embodiments of the invention however the system uses a more automated process. One such embodiment automates the generation of data according to the proprietary ZDF format based on input from a user that is unaware of the details of the format using tools that describe the desired outcome. One embodiment takes a data file from the content provider describing the link e.g. location on page and target and data to be associated with the links and programmatically creates the links in the ZDF file. One embodiment utilizes search engines to scan the contents of the original file for certain keywords that are specified in at least one other data file and create links to content targets specified in the other data file that are associated with the keywords. The resulting proprietary data format file which for purposes of example is a PDF file is then stored in the magazine data store s .

In one embodiment a draft final proprietary file in the proprietary final file format which for purposes of example is called ZNO is created to allow the publisher to review the document for quality control steps through . In addition in an embodiment magazine preview files if required step are also created at this point from the publisher s PDF file step . The preview file contents can for example include the cover the table of contents and one or two pages from a lead article. The size of the preview file typically is not as large as that of the magazine file e.g. less than 500K bytes . The preview file is associated or linked to the main file for the magazine step .

When the system puts the ZDF files in the magazine data store the following activities occur. The issue of the magazine is assigned an IssueID step . In addition records of the issue called IssueID record are created and initialized in the circulation database and the magazine usage database step . Records of the issue also may be created and initialized if desired in the pass along database and set to desired predetermined values. In one embodiment the publisher of the magazine may provide desired information for the IssueID record in the pass along database . At this time the magazine industry has yet to standardize on the format for transferring the digital version of magazines so a variety of data formats now exist for the various elements of a magazine. There are also variances between the publishers and publications. To get the PDF file that starts the process according to one embodiment of the invention a conversion process is tailored to each publication to bring each publication online.

In one embodiment to support functions that may require synchronization across hardware located in various time zones Greenwich Mean Time GMT or UCT is the time base used in the system of . Where appropriate UCT is translated into the local time. In at least one embodiment of the invention not shown the system uses a timeserver with National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST timeservers as backup. In this embodiment the timeserver of the system gets its synchronization from the NIST timeservers. The time is synchronized as frequently as necessary.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the core of its digital distribution is controlling how the contents of the digital files are used allowing access to authorized users in a manner consistent with the rights granted to the user and denying access to unauthorized users. However the rights management process of the invention can change depending on the digital rights management DRM selected for use with the system . The following describes an example rights management system in used accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention.

Controlled access to the digital content of the magazine files relies on the encryption algorithm used and the management of the keys used for the algorithm. In one embodiment of the system content is encrypted with user keys not hardware keys. In one embodiment to meet export requirements for international use the key length is limited to 64 bits.

The next time the user logs in the userID is retrieved from the file to open the various magazine files. When the user logs into a PC that is not aware of the user the reader goes online and verifies that the user is a valid user at which time the user login password userID and userID Key are retrieved from the system server and added to the PC s encrypted user file. In one embodiment when a user changes his or her email address for logging in the process requires logging into the system server so that the encrypted user file will be updated when the email login is updated system.

On the system server each userID is associated with a table in the user database step . Table 1 is a representative example showing what the table in the user database contains 

Referring to Table 1 the IssueID s are the identifiers for the issues the user has purchased. For example assuming an average of 20 magazines month 12 months yr. 75 years 18 000 issues on average user. Thus for example Table 1 is constructed and arranged to account for storage and organization of this many issues for a given user.

In some embodiments of the invention the user of the system is not a single user but rather a group of users e.g. situations where there is group or corporate access . In at least one embodiment group corporate access is more of a billing issue rather than a rights management issue. In one example each member of a group opens the magazine individually rather than sharing a user login password so that an accurate circulation count can be achieved. In that example each user account is associated with a group billing account. This also simplifies usage of the reader by the user because the user does not have to logout and log back in when going between personal and group magazines.

Referring again to an encrypted user file is created to store the user login password user ID and UserID Key step and the encrypted user file is stored on the device being used as a reader such as the user s personal computer electronic book reader PDA etc. step .

The file encryption and the encryption algorithm used in at least one embodiment depend on the digital rights management DRM system being used. Examples of DRM systems usable with the invention include DRM systems made by ADOBE e.g. Intertrust CONTACT GUARD of Bethesda Md. SEALED MEDIA United Kingdom MICROSOFT Redmond Wash. and the like. Each issue of a magazine that a user has access to is associated with a key which is used to encrypt the file for transport to and storage on the reader that the user is using. This key is then encrypted with the userID key for delivery to the reader application so that the reader can open the magazine file when offline. In one embodiment for the occurrence where the same key is used for the same user but for different issues some random data that is later ignored is added to the key files. In one embodiment the keys are 64 bits long. Those skilled in the art recognize however that the size of the key can vary and may be expanded for example to 512 bytes to allow for future key expansions and to add noise to the files.

Using the two keys as defined may provide advantages to the system . For example using the two keys as defined means that a pass along copy can be accessed by just sending the download file key encrypted with the userID key of the new user. Thus if the download file key is compromised the download file key cannot be used on other files. In addition a person cracking someone else s userID key would only be able to access those files accessible to the user whose userID key was cracked. Moreover those issues would then have to be converted back into a standard format like PDF in order to be used. The same result would occur if an intruder determined the user login name and password. Thus in at least one embodiment of the invention cracking the userID key of a given user requires physical access to the reader or other device e.g. personal computer on which the user has logged in before. Note that the userID key and subsequent issue keys cannot be used to open other issues or compromise other users.

Table 2 lists the keys in use and the locations of the keys in the system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

When transferring the UserID key from the system to the reader in one embodiment of the invention an SSL connection is used to maintain a minimal level of security. The transfer of the IssueID can be either a secure or unsecure connection depending on whether or not payment transactions were involved.

Once the content is secured the various elements in the file are managed based on simple rights associated with each element in the file. Table 3 shows representative example of rights and elements contemplated in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Referring to Table 3 if the rights e.g. print and or tear are not granted for a particular magazine element that functionality is disabled for the specified magazine element. For example a given set of rights for a given magazine may give user the right to print advertising but not pictures or graphics. Those skilled in the art will recognize that rights other than printing or tearing e.g. saving as a separate document cut and paste type copying of portions of the magazine into another electronic document modification of content and the like may or may not be spelled out for a given magazine.

In one embodiment a publisher may require via for example auditing requirements that the electronic magazine being provided have its elements displayed with the exact same layout as the print version of the magazine. In this embodiment the presence of the magazine element in the digital file assumes that the right to display the magazine elements in the original page layout has been granted.

In one embodiment functions such as screen capture and print screen functionalities are not controlled at the application level. These functions may be operating system functions and disabling these or other operating system functions may involve intercepting operating system calls when the application is running.

After the reader has been enrolled with the system the reader can be used to visit the system such as via a website to acquire content and or update applications running on the reader . In addition in at least one embodiment the system is accessible to the reader via a remote station such as a terminal or Kiosk located at for example an airport. Each of these functions is described herein.

The system notifies the reader if an update is available and permits the reader to update the software if necessary. For example some reasons for updating the reader are to add new functionality and or correct previous functionality. In an embodiment of the invention functionality changes can come in three types file format changes service interface changes and reader only changes and a single update can contain one or more of the three types.

For example as new functions are embedded in the magazine data files new modules may be required on the reader to interpret the new data elements. An example of this might be where a publisher is now providing a feature such as a product sample in a magazine and the sample may have features not easily available or simulatable given the current configuration of the reader . For example many fashion magazines now include inserts containing fragrance samples. If a reader has access to functionality such as a computer operably coupled to one or more external devices capable of replicating the scent of the fragrance and somehow providing the simulated fragrance to the user the magazine may include a data file to do this. Readers unable to read such files could obtain updates from the system . An update to the reader adds the necessary modules to handle the new data elements. In at least one embodiment of the invention new data elements are ignorable so that if the user of a reader chooses not to update the content can still be viewed subject to the limitations of the non updated reader .

In another example the update may include service interface changes. Service interface changes are related to the manner in which the reader communicates with the system . Some examples of service interface changes in accordance with an embodiment of the invention are changes to the URLs used to support the reader functionality or changes to protocols used to communicate with the servers of the system . An update to the reader makes the necessary changes to communicate with the servers using the new interface. In at least one embodiment of the invention service interface changes have no impact on the user interaction with the system the user will not notice the changes.

Another type of update performed in at least one embodiment of the invention includes changes that are made to the reader only. These so called reader only changes are changes that add or modify reader functionality that are not based on file format or service changes. Some examples include changes to the user interface changes to search algorithms and or more efficient rendering algorithms. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many other types of updates are within the spirit and scope of the invention. Updates to the reader modify the associated application as appropriate.

In at least one embodiment of the invention an update service check occurs when the user enters an area of the reader called the newsstand area. The newsstand area corresponds to a part of the reader that permits users to acquire new content add subscriptions change subscription information purchase single copies of periodicals and the like actions that user might have access to at a conventional newsstand. In one embodiment when the newsstand area of the reader is accessed the reader is connected over a computer network to the system . Note that in some embodiments the Newsstand on the reader may for example contain cached information with which a user can interact make decisions provide information etc. prior to actually connecting over the computer network to the system . In one embodiment the update service check only occurs when a user accesses the newsstand of the reader to limit the number of update check requests. In at least one embodiment entering the newsstand requires a connection to the Internet or other appropriate computer network so connecting to the update service will not be a problem.

The file format check occurs in one embodiment whenever a file is opened. The file format version number is checked to see whether it matches or for example exceeds the formats supported by the current reader. If the file format is not supported the user is notified and prompted to update by going online and going to the Newsstand area. The steps involved in this are listed in which is a flow chart illustrating a method for updating a user s computer system in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

Referring to when the user enters the newsstand step on the reader data about the reader for example the reader version number is provided to the update service step which in one embodiment of the invention is part of the magazine encryption and distribution service . In at least one embodiment at least a portion of the communication between the reader and the system occurs over an SSL connection.

Referring again to the system compares the current reader version number the one now on the reader with what the system knows to be the latest version of the reader steps and . If the versions are the same then the system notifies the reader that it is up to date step and the reader can continue working with the existing newsstand functionality step .

If the versions are not the same the system provides the reader with a list of differences between the current version and the latest version and a prompt for the reader to be updated step which the reader may display to a user. If the update is not accepted the reader continues working with the existing newsstand functionality step . If the versions are not the same and the update is accepted e.g. user of the reader accepts the update the reader update application begins step . In at least one embodiment of the invention when the reader update application begins the reader application closes. The reader provides the system with its version number and an update file request as part of the reader update application. The system determines the update file to send to the reader that will bring the reader up to the latest version step . The update file is sent to the reader where the reader update application replaces relevant files and updates un install script step . The reader update application closes step and the reader application restarted step without a restart of the computer reader device itself. The reader is restarted in the newsstand area so that the user of the reader may continue with the newsstand functionality.

One reason for using a separate update application as described in the flowchart of is that the separate update application may help to minimize contention issues when updating various files on the reader . For example in one embodiment no update flags are used during updating so each time the user enters the newsstand area of the reader an update check is performed.

The handling of proxies and gateways for an Internet connection is in one embodiment managed by the services provided by the underlying operating system running on the reader .

Another type of updating that may occur when a user is using a reader is an update resulting from checking the format of a file. In one embodiment of the invention file checking occurs completely within the reader so that no interaction with the update service area of the system is required. Checking of file formats is explained more fully in which described the actions occurring when a reader is opening a file. In one embodiment to simplify the checking of file formats when a reader supports a given version of a file format the reader will support all file format versions prior to the supported version. When the user of a reader goes online and enters the newsstand area the normal service check and update process occur and update the application as described in the flowchart of .

Other embodiments of the invention utilizing caching during updating. For example in one embodiment where the update files are static caches of the update files are stored in one or more locations on the Internet or other computer network and are distributed via an edge service such as that offered by like Akamai of Cambridge Mass. The version comparison service in this example is part of the update service cache.

When at the newsstand area of the reader a user can utilize any of the newsstand s features which in at least one embodiment of the invention include obtaining electronic documents such as magazines. The obtaining of electronic documents in accordance with the invention at least includes purchase of subscriptions and single purchase copies. In some embodiments of the invention obtaining electronic documents includes one or more non purchase situations such as obtaining free publications such as sample issues catalogs manuals gifts and the like.

Subscriptions can be a significant factor for driving publisher revenues but can be an area of frustration areas for magazine readers. Frustrations with subscriptions include difficulties in changing address or payment information lengthy waits for subscriptions to start and long waits to cancel or change subscriptions. In some embodiments the present invention simplifies and improves the process of utilizing subscriptions to a magazine. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the system of manages two types of subscriptions the paid subscription and the controlled circulation subscription. One difference between the paid subscription and the controlled circulation subscription as used with the present invention is the manner in which the order is placed. In some embodiments of the invention subscriptions whether for oneself or as a gift are placed only from the newsstand of the reader and not from a retail transaction service which permits single copy purchases only. However in other embodiments of the invention subscriptions and or single copy purchases can be made from any entity capable of interacting with the system . These entities include but are not limited to readers and retail transaction services .

The magazine encryption and distribution service service displays magazines that are available step and waits for the user to make a selection step . In at least one embodiment the magazines are displayed using hyptertext markup language HTML such as by using metadata found in the ZDF file. In some embodiments the display may include featured magazines for the newsstand for that day week month magazines organized into categories featured magazines in a category alphabetical listings of magazines and the like.

In at least one embodiment of the invention each magazine is displayed on the newsstand pages in the form of a cover thumbnail above several buttons enabling the user to select an option associated with that document. For example there may be a button for purchasing a single copy another to purchase a subscription and another to see a preview of the magazine. The user can select step the desired periodical by selecting a button associated with the periodical.

If the user requests a subscription steps and the system initiates a subscription transaction. During the transaction the system obtains information necessary to make the magazine subscribed to available to the user steps and . For example in at least one embodiment of the invention the following information is obtained.

After the transaction is cleared financially the subscription is confirmed and if it starts with the current issue the magazine file is encrypted and downloaded to the user s reader step or is saved for later downloading possibly to another reader . The user s archive list on the reader also is updated with the IssueID of the magazine that was just delivered.

For gift subscriptions step the process is similar to the process described above except that a notification such as an email step is sent to the recipient notifying the recipient of the gift. If the subscription starts with the current issue a link to download the issue will also be included. When the recipient picks up the first issue of the subscription the gift sender is notified.

Other features such as customizable thank you emails reciprocal agreements if you let me share your magazine you can share mine discounts for frequent subscriptions emails alerting of special offers and the like also may be part of the communications offered to subscribers of magazines gift recipients and even purchasers of single issues.

One of the advantages of having a digital delivery system as described in some embodiments of the invention is that modifications to account information can be handled quickly. Referring to these modifications can be done if a user selects other functions steps and . Some of the modifications anticipated include the following 

Subscription renewals are handled in the same way as subscription orders except the starting issue and credit card numbers are automatically filled in based on the current subscription. The user can of course change and or update the information. In some embodiments the system provides alerts of subscriptions running out. For example to make a user aware that his subscription is about to run out 2 issues prior to the last issue the subscription check which can be performed by any of the services in the system such as the circulation service and or the magazine encryption and distribution service brings up a reminder that you have two issues left and give the user a button to click to renew. The reminder is generated by the magazine encryption and distribution service based on the expiration date issue stored in the user s record for that title. The reminder is updated for the next to last issue to read you have one issue left . The message for the last issue is this is your last issue. Pressing the subscription renewal button will bring up the subscription renewal version of placing a subscription order.

In some embodiments of the invention the magazine encryption and distribution service automatically renews the subscription for the user if the user selects this option. The user may or may not elect to be warned before the automatic renewal occurs. For this option a record is kept that they did select automatic renewal for audit purposes along with any notices and acknowledgements related to the renewal.

When a magazine issue is released the magazine encryption and distribution service goes through the subscriber list stored in the circulation database for the title and updates the pickup list in the users database for each of the userID s. When the user opens the reader while online the reader checks with the magazine encryption and distribution service to see if a magazine is available. The magazine encryption and distribution service determines whether or not an issue is available by looking at the user s pickup list in the user database . If one or more issues are available for pickup the reader notifies the user and asks if the user if he wants to download the issues. If the user declines the issues are left on the pickup list for the next subscription check. If the user accepts the issues are downloaded to an archive area of the reader which in one embodiment is called the My Collection area and the users database is updated by cleaning up the pickup list and adding the IssueID and key to the user s list of archived issues. The circulation database is also updated to reflect the delivery of a copy of the issue. In one embodiment an email is generated to notify the user of a new issue if the user selects that option.

The magazine encryption and distribution service handles the commercial transaction to purchase the subscription or single copy then retrieves the ZDF file from the magazine data store and encrypts it for use by the user step . The user s data in the user database is updated with the issue identifier and the encryption key for that file download step . Records are generated in the pass along database and or the magazine usage database to allow pass along and archival retrieval step . In one embodiment each subscription request payment transaction and file download are recorded for audit purposes and to generate billing invoices.

For subscriptions after the subscription request has been filled out and confirmed the circulation database is updated with the subscription request step . For subscriptions and single copy purchases after the payment has been processed the circulation database is updated with the commercial transaction step . After the file has been downloaded the circulation database is updated again with the note that delivery has been completed. Referring again to and in at least one embodiment of the invention content can be obtained on a non subscription basis as well. For example content can be purchased from the newsstand steps and through . Content also may be purchased from a third party retailer via the retail transaction service . Purchasing a single copy is in one embodiment similar to a subscription purchase. One difference is that with purchase of a single copy only the payment information is required from the user step similar to the purchase of a single copy in a conventional newsstand. After the transaction for purchasing a single copy is cleared financially step the magazine file is encrypted and downloaded to the user s reader updating the user s archive list on the reader with the IssueID of the magazine that was just delivered. In at least one embodiment the magazine is downloaded to a user s reading device e.g. computer and is stored there. The magazine encryption and distribution service manages the entire purchase transaction which is recorded in the circulation database.

If the purchase was for a group purchase all of the members of that group have the issue added to their pickup list as if it was a subscription issue. The next subscription check by the other members will prompt them to download the magazine. The newsstand accessible via the reader can in one embodiment be set up to market the content. For example the newsstand can be constructed and arranged to include placement slots and the various pages of the newsstand are organized to feature selected magazines based on categories. In at least one embodiment of the invention selected magazines are promoted based on the user s expressed interest as stored in the user s profile on the users database .

In at least one embodiment content such as magazines is displayed on the newsstand using compact versions of the magazine image such as cover thumbnails images above functional buttons such as subscribe and purchase buttons. In the conventional paper world a user may preview the magazine before purchasing. In the newsstand of the invention clicking on a cover thumbnail step causes the magazine s preview file if available to be downloaded to the user steps and . The preview file is not encrypted to the user unless it contains adult content in which case it will be keyed to the user to allow for situations such as when a person other than the user is using a user s computer or other device to run a reader and view the magazine previews . If a preview file requires some type of special conditions to be met steps and such as a minimum age requirement the system checks for that condition. If it is not met the system will notify the user step and will not display the preview to the user.

The preview file in one embodiment is a small excerpt of the magazine as defined by the publisher. For example a preview file for a magazine can include the cover the table of contents and possibly the first few pages of the lead article. In at least one embodiment of the invention the reader cannot archive preview files.

After previewing the magazine the user may purchase and or subscribe to the magazine in the same manner as described previously. In one embodiment to facilitate this the preview file includes a link that takes the user into the purchase or subscribe transaction process in the newsstand. Of course it is not necessary to preview a magazine before purchasing or subscribing.

In one embodiment of the invention the system provides for predetermined error conditions. For example there is the possibility that after an issue has been delivered the payment may be rescinded. For that condition the system prevents access to a particular issue such as by removing the issue from the list of purchased issues. On the reader client side the reader deletes the local client copy and can notify the user prior to the deletion.

As noted previously another way to obtain non subscription content is from a third party retailer or retail transaction service such as AMAZON.COM or BARNESANDNOBLE.COM. In at least one embodiment of the invention marketing of the content e.g. featuring particular issues the way issues are organized and presented etc. is at the discretion of the retailer. The system can if desired provide the retail transaction service with magazine previews that link back to the retail transaction service for fulfillment should the user decide to purchase a single copy. In one embodiment subscription links link back to the magazine encryption and distribution service of the system .

Getting a magazine from a third party retailer or a retail transaction service is similar to the Newsstand scenario except that the retailer handles all of the financial aspects of the transaction prior to contacting the magazine encryption and distribution service . However the retail transaction service provides the purchase price and payment confirmation so that the data can be recorded in the circulation database for circulation auditing purposes. is a screen shot depicting an example third party screen for downloading an electronic magazine in accordance with an embodiment of the invention and is a screen shot depicting an example depicting the download screen for the third party screen of in accordance with an embodiment of the invention 

A retail transaction with a retail transaction service begins when the user selects a magazine for purchase. The retail transaction service gets the user s system login and password so that the user can be verified as a user of the system . Once the system has validated the user the retail transaction service handles the financial transaction and provides the payment price and confirmation when the transaction clears. Failed transactions are managed by the retail transaction service .

The issue file is encrypted for the user and sent to the retail transaction service for delivery to the end user. The circulation database and the user s archive list in the user database are updated as necessary. The retail transaction service is also responsible for notifying the system when the delivery has been completed.

In one embodiment of the invention as an alternative to the retail transaction service handling the actual delivery the retail transaction service is provided with a link to the magazine encryption and distribution service so that the user downloads the file from the system . With that method the system has confirmation of delivery. If desired the system can notify the retail transaction service of the delivery for their records. The system can also if necessary settle accounts with the publisher.

After the magazine file which is referred to as a ZNO file in the embodiment of the system shown in has been added to the user s reader the user can read the file. For example in one embodiment the magazine file is stored as a thumbnail image in an area of the reader called the My Collection area and can be read by opening the reader and clicking on the cover thumbnail in the My Collection area. In at least one embodiment if a user locates the magazine file on her computer e.g. if the file is started as part of the computer file structure and clicks on it the reader is launched automatically as with many other types of files and applications. is a screen shot depicting a representative example of a screen on the reader showing the features available in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Referring briefly to one of the embodiments of the reader provides features accessible via onscreen buttons such as download a My Collection area a dragging panning feature for use when reading a document a highlighting feature a tear out feature a single page mode a double page mode a browsing mode a reading mode zoom in zoom out options preferences rotate screen flip back and flip forward .

The download feature provides a quick link to the newsstand functionality. The My Collection feature access to local files that contain the print layout version of the desired content. The dragging panning feature provides drag and panning of the display screen to provide visibility to other portions of the page. In at least one embodiment the dragging panning feature is accomplished by pressing down on the mouse button at a point on the page moving the mouse in the desired direction and releasing the button. The display can be updated after the button is released or while the button is depressed. Updating after the button is released will cause a snapping effect as the page is repositioned. The highlighting feature provides the ability to highlight annotate dog ear and or mark the content. The tear out feature provides a page clipping function enabling a user to remove articles from the magazine if the associated rights permit it and retain the article for the user s own user pass it along to another incorporate it into another document etc. as required and permitted. It should be noted that because some embodiments of the invention provide digital rights management at the object e.g. picture article etc. level the reader could handle functions such as the tear out feature .

The single page mode and double page mode permit the user to view the magazine in the desired one or two page format. The browsing mode permits the user to browse the magazine quickly and in one embodiment browsing mode defaults to a double page mode . is a screen shot depicting a two page browsing layout of a representative electronic magazine as viewed using the reader in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. It also is possible to browse a magazine in a single page format. is a screen shot depicting a single page browsing layout of a representative electronic magazine in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

The read mode permits the user to read content on a given page. In at least one embodiment the read mode displays the content in a single page mode in a size zoomed in enough for the average person to read the magazine off of the screen. It also is possible of course to show two pages while reading content to take advantage of the seamless two page spread display and navigation of at least one embodiment of the invention. While in two page mode the user can take advantage of the read mode animation of the invention to zoom in to a portion of the magazine article to read a particular detail such as by using the pan drag feature to quickly and easily focus in on content.

The zoom in feature and zoom out feature work in a manner similar to convention zoom in and zoom out features in other software packages. In one embodiment the zoom factor is fixed for the different reading modes e.g. browse and or read . In one embodiment the user controls the zoom factor. In at least one embodiment the zoom in and zoom out features respectively work with a so called magnifying glass approach where a separate window is moved across the page and the content of the window is an enlarged version of the page under the window. With this approach the user can control the amount of enlargement in the window. The shape of the window also can be adjusted to fit the material being enlarged e.g. seeing the entire width of a column. In another embodiment the zoom in and zoom out features respectively change the enlargement of the page in the original page window.

In some embodiments of the invention instead of storing the tokens in a separate file the reader stores the tokens in a data structure on the client device e.g. on the computer EBOOK PDA etc. . In at least one embodiment the tokens are stored in a portable manner e.g. on a disk smart card badge or other physical token on a physical element capable of being read to provide the tokens. Depending on the number of issues that the user obtains either directly or via pass along this could grow to a very large file.

In at least one embodiment of the invention to avoid encryption at the reader the system of the invention uses tokens. In one embodiment however the data structure is encrypted which may help prevent decoding of the token and the rights structure.

When the user opens the issue of the magazine the reader opens the file and gets the format and version number of the ZNO file step . File checking in one embodiment occurs completely within the reader so no interaction with the update service is required. As noted previously in some embodiments to simplify file format checking if a reader supports a given file format version then the reader will support all file format versions prior to the supported version. However if the format or the version number are not supported by the reader step such as for example when the version number of the file is greater than the supported version number the user is prompted to connect and update the reader step using for example the method shown in . If the update does not occur the prompt is removed at first input by the user step and the file continues to be opened with the reader ignoring unsupported and or new elements step .

Referring again to if the version number is supported step the reader continues opening the file step so that the user can read it. is a screen shot depicting an example of an electronic magazine called by way of example only eCompany downloaded for reading to the reader in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As the user reads the magazine usage data is kept in the usage log. step which is explained more fully herein. In addition in at least one embodiment the reader can record other information and or actions that a user of the reader requires. For example the reader supports actions e.g. steps through of that a user can perform while reading and or browsing the magazine. When the user adds annotations to a magazine for example step of the reader stores the annotations are stored in an annotations file step of one for each issue. As each annotation is added or deleted the annotation file is updated to reflect the changes. Thus if the device running the reader crashes or if other problems occur the annotations are not lost. Annotation can be stored in one embodiment in the original ZNO file.

In at least one embodiment a user of the reader can peruse the magazine offline so no interaction with the system is required to read a magazine once the key token either pass along or direct is received.

In at least one embodiment of the invention the data format of the magazine file allows the reader to display and link documents. For example the reader uses the rendering engine built into the reader to convert the ZNO descriptions into visual representations of the pages. In addition the reader has the ability to determine links that have been embedded in the ZNO document. The internal or external resource pointed to by the link is in one embodiment handled by the proprietary portion of the reader .

Creating the links occurs at the pre press stage of the conversion process. Initially an application such as ADOBE ACROBAT is used to manually create the links. In some embodiments of the invention however the system uses a more automated process. Depending on the goals of the advertiser or publisher in at least one embodiment the reader can incorporate video and or audio to an advertisement catalog or article. In some embodiments the balancing factor is the size of the resulting file that is to be downloaded.

In one embodiment the reader supports three types of annotations text notes bookmarks and highlights. In some embodiments the reader supports handwritten notes when the reader includes or is used with interfaces that support handwriting on laptops desktops PDAs or other devices. For text notes a text box is created that is anchored to a selected point on the page. Text box functionality that is supported includes entering text using the keyboard resizing the size of the box and moving the cursor position to allow editing data entry is complete when they click the close icon at which point the text box data is stored in the annotations file associated with the magazine and the border of the note is modified to indicate that the box has been stored.

For highlighting the reader in one embodiment uses the ADOBE ACROBAT library feature for highlighting of text. In one embodiment the reader uses page coordinates to identify the start and stop points of the highlighted text lines and records them in the annotations file that is linked to the magazine.

Annotations also can be modified and or deleted. Selecting the particular annotation on the page brings up the appropriate tool to modify the annotation. In addition for text notes the tool permits the user to edit the note. For bookmarks the tool allows the user to change the type of bookmark. For highlights the tool allows the user to change the start and or end point of the highlight. Selecting any annotation also allows the user to delete the annotation by using a predetermined key such as the Delete or Backspace key.

Another document reading feature provided in some embodiments of the invention is synchronizing. For example if the user subscribes to the expanded services the annotations file on the reader is synchronized with one or more databases at the system . This can be done upon the occurrence of any one or more predetermined conditions such as when the newsstand is accessed or when the file is deleted from the archive of the reader .

Still another document reading feature provided in at least one embodiment of the invention is searching. In one embodiment the reader provides full text searching of documents. In one embodiment the reader generates an index based on the index structures of the files. For example the reader can generate an index sorting files it has based on date and or topic so that a user can perform a structured search of his documents for all articles within a given date range that relate to a given topic.

In some embodiments the invention implements searches in a variety of ways that can differ from and or go beyond searching such as intra file full text search in Phase 1. For example in at least one embodiment one unique feature of the ZNO files is that the collection of ZNO files can be dynamic. The user can remove and add ZNO files at will in the file structure associated with the operating system of the device on which the reader is implemented. In one embodiment the reader assumes a root folder from which the search for ZNO files start. All ZNO files below the root are considered when conducting a search.

One of the components in a ZNO file in an embodiment of the invention is a search index that has been created based on the contents of the file. When the reader conducts an inter file search the indices are used to quickly locate the page references. A separate index is included in each file so that a comprehensive index of all available files need not be created each time a search is initiated. In a comprehensive index each addition and deletion from the local magazine collection is managed. In some embodiments this may be difficult to do given that file management is an operating system function.

Searching across files on the system can be simpler because a comprehensive system index is possible because ZNO files are not deleted easily from the system . In at least one embodiment the system uses a third party searching system to perform searching.

When sharing content the page tear function see step of the elements of the pages are reassembled into a general use ZNO file that contains the elements that have been approved for sharing. Though it is general use the creator of the excerpted file is set as the purchaser of original issue from which the excerpt was taken. A dialog box asks the user if annotations are to be included in the file. If annotations are included they are added to the file instead of being sent in a separate file.

In at least one embodiment the reader permits the user to engage in commerce type functions such as perusing and ordering from catalogs ordering directly from advertisements in magazines and the like. Referring to this is accomplished for example using the commerce service . The commerce service in conjunction with the reader provides a consistent user interface to users of the reader and promotes commerce via catalogs. During the entire transaction cycle queries order settlement delivery and possible return the commerce service acts as the agent of the reader by translating the user s desire via the consistent user interface into the varying requirements of the various retailers like a wizard for catalog commerce transactions.

In at least one embodiment of the invention the commerce service simplifies the process of ordering to promote commerce transactions by providing features such as 

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention to conduct a commerce transaction using the system and the reader various steps and information are exchanged. An example of the commerce transaction process includes steps such as 

Preparing the catalog involves creating the catalog of products that will be distributed in the ZNO file format. During the course of generating the file various data elements necessary to identify and purchase a particular item are gathered and incorporated into the transaction database that is then used to generate the various catalog pages.

The transaction database is necessary in at least one embodiment because it is also used by the commerce service when communicating with the catalog order systems to place and check orders.

There are various policies and procedures that are particular to each retailer. The Commerce Transaction Interface CTI not shown in captures the various possible transactions that can occur between the commerce service and maps them to the consistent user interface associated with the system and or the reader .

While the user interface is consistent the system provides opportunities for the retailer to brand the interface so that the user knows with whom the order is being placed.

Commerce transactions are initiated when a user opens a catalog and interacts with the elements on the pages. Examples of the possible types of transactions include 

Depending on the information requested the user may or may not need to be online. If the information was included in the ZNO catalog such as available sizes and colors the information is in one embodiment displayed without accessing the system . Current information such as quantity in stock however may require a connection to the system the Internet or another computer network.

The query is started when the user interacts with the query elements on the catalog page that is associated with a product. Depending on the type of information desired the reader either displays the information or queries for a connection to obtain the necessary information. If a connection is not available the user is notified and asked if she would like to automatically resend the query when a connection becomes available.

If an online query is required the reader sends the query to the commerce service which translates and routes the query to the relevant catalog order system . Responses to the query are translated into a form suitable for use by the reader and are sent to the reader for display.

An order is placed when the user interacts with the page elements associated with a product to order the product. An order form is displayed pre filled in with the user s relevant information necessary to complete the transaction and as requested by the retailer according to the privacy policy of the retailer. The user makes any necessary changes and additions to the order and places the order.

In at least one embodiment if the reader is online the order is sent immediately. In at least one embodiment if the reader is offline the order is sent the next time a connection to the system the Internet or another computer network is established.

When the commerce service receives the order an order pending confirmation is returned to the reader along with an order identifier. The commerce service translates the order into the format appropriate for the selected retailer and sends the order to the appropriate catalog order system and waits for confirmation of the order. When the order is confirmed an order confirmed message is sent to the reader . If the catalog order system rejects the order the reason for the rejection is returned to the reader for display to the user.

After the order is placed it can be canceled by bringing up the order status screen in the reader and selecting the cancel option. The reader in at least one embodiment needs to be connected to the system and or online in order to confirm the cancellation therefore the cancel option will not be available if the user is offline.

While the order is active not received by the user the system monitors the status of the order via the commerce transaction interface. In at least one embodiment the retailer notifies the commerce service whenever the status of an order changes. If not the commerce service generates queries to the catalog order system . In at least one embodiment the statuses of the various orders are displayed on the order status screen in the reader and are updated whenever the reader connects to the system .

Other features that the commerce service can include in some embodiments of the invention include features such as affinity program management.

In at least one embodiment the reader allows the user to create multiple gift lists that can contain entries from different catalogs. In an embodiment gift lists are created locally and synchronized with the user database to allow the user to access the lists from any computer.

In at least one embodiment the reporting service also can provide reports relating to the commerce service . For example the transactions that have been handled by the commerce service can be aggregated and correlated with the demographic information in the user databases to create transactions summaries for the retailers. Some examples might be the most popular product with consumers accessing the system who are between the ages of 30 and 40 or the average order amount from a particular catalog.

In at least one embodiment the commerce service provides transaction histories and summaries for users. For example if the user is connected to the system the user can access previous transactions to possibly re order items or publish gift lists transaction summaries are also available. Some example summaries might be all transactions using a particular credit card across all retailers or all transactions with a particular retailer.

The above described features and functions are available when the user has successfully opened the file because the user s userID matched that associated with the file step of . At least a portion of these features and functions are available to users who have pass along access as well. The process for opening and reading a file detects whether the file is to be opened under pass along conditions.

Referring again to if the userID is not a match step then the user is notified step that the user needs pass along rights to read the publication. To obtain pass along rights the user connects to the system such as via a designated web site on the Internet step provides required information to the system such as original user s userID the issue identifier and the new user s userID and the like to the pass along service step . If pass along is not allowed for the document step the user is notified step . Pass along may be disallowed for many different reasons such as time limits being exceeded incorrect user publisher restrictions and the like.

If pass along is allowed step the key associated with the original user s download is retrieved and encrypted with the new user s userID for transmission to the new user steps . The reader will then have has the key to open the pass along file and note files if any.

If pass along is allowed for the document in at least one embodiment of the invention the pass along process of described below is followed to give the user access. At least one output of the process of is providing the user who has requested access with an appropriate token to access the document step . When this token is provided accessing the document proceeds as described previously for the non pass along user.

Whether and how a document can be passed along can be determined at different times. For example in one embodiment at the time a publisher provides a document to the system the publisher may specify pass along limits and or requirements. In one embodiment pass along requirements are determined or set at the time that the original user purchases and or received the magazine. Those skilled in the art recognize that many different conditions can be used to determine whether or not pass along access to a document is granted and under what terms. For example many types of conditions that presently are used in systems that give users read only and or limited access to documents such as document management systems such as IMANAGE and PCDOCS can be similarly applied for pass along in accordance with the principles of the invention.

In one embodiment of the invention pass along is handled by having the purchaser of content deal with the delivery of the ZNO file and optionally any associated annotation file to the user.

In at least one embodiment of the invention there are two types of pass along tokens the limited use token and the full use token. The limited use token allows the user to view the contents of the pass along file along with any notes but not to make changes to the files. Additionally the file is not registered in the user s archive. The full use token allows the user to treat the file as if the user had purchased it. It also becomes part of the users archive so that all annotations old and new can be saved for later retrieval. With a full use token should the original pass along file and or token be lost deleted the issue can be retrieved from the archive but this time with the user s userID embedded in the file instead of the original purchaser s userID.

Besides handling the key management for pass along the pass along service also tracks the number of times a particular magazine issue has been passed along in aggregate in the circulation database .

In at least one embodiment the publisher sets at least some of the limits for the pass along process for particular magazines. This data is kept in the pass along database. For example in one embodiment the aspects of pass along that are controlled on a per issue basis are 

The user database includes as part of the purchaser s record a count of pass along for a purchaser s copy.

The circulation database maintains a pass along aggregate count but in at least one embodiment for the purposes of enforcing a limit the pass along database maintains the limit counter. When a pass along request is received step and there is an aggregate count limit as specified in the pass along database step the pass along service compares the limit to the cycle count value in the pass along database . If the limit has been reached a message will be returned to the pass along requestor indicating the reason for not granting pass along access step . If the limit has not been reached and other appropriate conditions are met as shown in then the appropriate type of pass along token is generated steps and the aggregate count is updated in the circulation database and the cycle count is updated in the pass along database step . A value of 0 for example indicates that no pass along copies are allowed. In some embodiments of the invention there is a maximum value which can be extremely high on the order of millions of copies .

Cycle time for count limits is in an embodiment of the invention the feature that supports the following functionality 

If the current time is before the expiration time the pass along service compares the relevant count values to decide if a pass along token should be generated. A value of 0 indicates that cycle time is not active. In at least one embodiment the maximum value is set to a predetermined number of days. In one embodiment there are separate cycle timers for each count. In one embodiment if cycle times are not used the cycle count counter in the pass along database is deleted.

The pass along enable time is stored in the pass along database as a specific time date value. For example this value can be entered at the time the magazine issue was loaded into the data store. When a pass along request is received step the pass along enable time is compared to the current time step if the current time is beyond the enable time pass along processing is stopped and a message returned to the user noting that the pass along period has expired step . If the time has not expired pass along checking continues. A value of 0 indicates that pass along is always enabled.

The pass along limit enable time is stored in the pass along database as a specific time date value. For example this value can be entered at the time the magazine issue was loaded into the data store. When a pass along request is received step the pass along limit enable time is compared to the current time step if the current time is beyond the enable time pass along processing is stopped and a pass along token is immediately generated without further checking steps and . If the time has not expired pass along checking continues. A value of 0 indicates that pass along limit checking is always enabled.

The Free pass along Type for a particular issue is stored in the pass along database . One type is the free pass along where a fee is not required and the issue can be passed along to anybody. In one embodiment the free pass along type can either be limited functionality or full functionality.

In one embodiment in conjunction with the pass along price three types of systems can be supported by the pass along service 

The pass along price is stored in the pass along database as a monetary value for example in cents. The pass along price is entered at the time the magazine issue is loaded into the data store. When a pass along request is received step and the pass along price is not 0 a payment transaction is initiated by the pass along service to allow the user to pay for the pass along token steps and . If payment is received step a full use pass along token is generated step . If payment is not received pass along processing continues to see if a limited use token should be generated. A value of 0 indicates no need for payment so the payment transaction is skipped and pass along processing continues. In at least one embodiment the pass along price has a predetermined maximum value.

Because pass along files were not purchased in at least one embodiment certain limits are placed on their functionality. For example pass along files unless paid for are not recorded in the user s database so they will not appear as part of the user s archive. Because pass along files are not archiveable any annotations made will not be stored on the archive server. If the file were to be deleted from the My Collections area any notes would be lost.

One of the benefits of some embodiments of the invention is that in these embodiments usage data is generated that allows the readers to easily and in at least one embodiment anonymously tell the publisher what parts of magazine are of interest to the readership. This is accomplished by tracking the usage of the magazine.

Usage data is generated as the user is reading or browsing the document. Magazine usage is tracked by time stamping and recording file opens closures page turns and link activations when the magazine is read. By comparing the time stamps the duration of exposure can be determined as well as the page that was exposed magazine content information is not recorded as part of the log except for the issue identifier when a file is opened.

As the flowchart of indicated when the user enters the newsstand area of the reader one action that occurs before the user is able begins using the newsstand functionality is to check whether the reader requires updates. Another action that occurs before the user begins using the newsstand functionality or while the user uses the newsstand functionality on the reader is that the reader provides the magazine usage data to the system. After the usage logs are aggregated and filtered in the magazine usage database by the magazine usage service the publisher can if desired correlate the data to the known contents of the magazine to determine the items of interest to the issue s readership.

As shown in when the reader is opened for the first time as part of the initialization a usage file is created to log the usage data. In one embodiment of the invention the start of the log includes a header containing the local time at the device running the reader e.g. local personal computer time UCT time as reported by the system and the log format version number. As the user reads the magazine various events are recorded in the log along with the supporting information relevant for that event.

When the user connects to the system to access the newsstand or to acquire pass along rights or to download a magazine as part of a subscription the magazine usage data collected to date on the user s reader is sent back to the magazine usage service and stored in the magazine usage database . These are the only occasions in at least one embodiment of the invention when usage data is sent back to the magazine usage database .

Prior to the file transfer the current log file on the reader is closed and a new log file is opened. Should the transfer fail for some reason the old log file is transferred at the next opportunity along with the new log file which would be closed at that time. It is possible in at least one embodiment that there may be multiple old log files waiting to be transferred but at some point the file transfers will be successful and the local copies deleted.

A single log is used for all instances and through the use of the user table index number to note when the user changes so that the readership number for that issue can be estimated. The index number does indicate when a new user is reading the same magazine but because the local user table is not sent to the usage service and the log file is not identified with a particular machine the index number cannot be traced back to a particular user.

To detect tampering in at least one embodiment the modification date and the size of the log file is recorded each time the reader is closed. When the reader is opened and the file properties do not match a new log is created and the old one is marked for transfer to a holding area in the magazine usage service for review. To address privacy concerns and or user concerns about being recorded in at least one embodiment of the invention personally identifiable information is never recorded as part of the magazine usage data and or a log file viewer will be provided to allow the user to look at the log.

Back at the system the usage logs are filtered into the various tables representing each issue so that the data can be analyzed. In at least on embodiment data analyses and reports are generated in the reporting service and are provided to entities requesting the information such as publisher business management and publishing industry groups .

Data gathered in accordance with an embodiment of the invention by tracking things such as magazine usage can be used in a variety of ways. For example by calculating the difference between time stamps the amount of time a page is displayed can be calculated. By counting the number of times a particular page was displayed accurate page views can be provided to entities such as advertisers. Reports relating to these and other topics can be generated according to what the publishers and industry groups desire. In one embodiment if no user identifiable information is included with the magazine usage data correlation with demographic information is not possible. In another embodiment however demographic information can be included at the reader so that access to the user database is not required. In one embodiment magazine usage information includes the user identifier and references the user database for demographic information.

Another feature available in some embodiments of the invention are reports such as audited circulation reports. Some statistics show that most magazine publishers primary source of revenue is advertising. To support the advertising rates publishers can show that readers are being exposed to the ads. Auditing reports based on data collected according to the current magazine auditing rules and regulations can be used as evidence of ad exposure. To be considered as circulation magazines must be ordered paid or qualified for and delivered to the user. From the magazine usage data collected a variety of reports are possible especially if the data is correlated with information regarding the content of the pages. The data to be reported and the form of the reports depend on publisher and or Industry requirements. As the description herein shows however at least one embodiment of the present invention advantageously can be used to provide data relating to these concerns more accurately quickly and inexpensively than known systems.

At least some embodiments of the invention generate circulation reports as necessary and in substantially the same format as the reports currently used for print distribution. The data from the reports can for example be exported for integration into the fulfillment systems that are currently supplying the circulation readership information to the publishers. Using the usage logs magazine readership could be estimated fairly closely.

Although the distribution system in some embodiments does not generate bills to the publishers it provides input into billing system which although not shown in is part of some embodiments of the invention. Depending on the contract terms the billing system can take data such as number of downloads per issue and number of pass alongs per issue in the billing period and generate bills to the publishers. The data to be reported and the form of the reports depend on the contractual requirements.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention there are two places where archives of documents that have been acquired are maintained for the user the local archive on the device running the reader and or accessible to the reader such as a disk and the online archive accessible to the system .

The offline archive is also referred to herein in one embodiment as the My Collection feature of the reader . In one embodiment the offline archive is an alternate view of the operating system s file system on the device running the reader e.g. on the local driven or removable drive of the personal computer starting at a particular node in the file system referred to by way of example only as the Zinio root . The user can organize the files in any manner the user sees fit using the file system of the operating system. This includes putting all of the files in a single folder subject to the limitations of the operating system.

Once the reader receives a magazine file e.g. a ZNO file the reader adds the file to the offline archive when one of the following occurs 

The last three events listed above are only relevant in one embodiment for files that are located outside of the reader s tree. When those events occur a link is created in the appropriate location on the reader s tree to point to the file. The link can be moved and reorganized like a magazine file. No link is created if the user does not have the right to access the file.

Because the offline archive is an alternate view of operating system s file structure any changes like adding or deleting folders and files outside of the reader are reflected in the display of the offline archive contents. Similarly any changes made in the reader to the offline archive area also are reflected in the file system.

The offline archive My Collection display is determined when the reader switches to the My Collection mode see e.g. the My Collection feature of . The reader scans the folder to be displayed in the My Collection window for files that can be accessed by the user currently logged in. This is accomplished for example by scanning the headers of the ZNO files which include the cover thumbnail images. Files not accessible to the user are not displayed. In one embodiment if scanning a folder takes too long an index file can be used instead. The index is updated periodically to keep up with changes that occur outside of the reader .

Besides magazine and catalog ZNO files the offline archive in at least one embodiment can hold ZNO related files. The ZNO related files are stored in special file folders at the Zinio root and do not show up as part of the documents displayed in the offline archive area. These files include for example the annotation files ZNT the key tokens for opening ZNO files ZTK and the usage logs ZMU .

On systems that support multiple users each user has a folder at the Zinio root that will serve as their personal root for the offline archive area. This allows each user to create her own organizational structure under her personal root. To share documents the user can for example use the file open dialog to go to the other users folder and link in documents. If the first user does not have access to the file contents the link will not be created.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the online archive comes in two varieties a basic purchased issues index and an enhanced services archive. The basic purchased issues index allows the user to recover old magazine files should the user delete them from her local archive. The enhanced services archive allows the user to save annotations organization schemes and clippings she may have made to the local versions of her archive. This also allows the user to use different machines to access her personalized copies of the magazines.

The purchased issues index is in at least one embodiment a list of the magazine issues that have been purchased by the user and is intended for use by the user as a way to recover files deleted from the user s local archive. The purchased issues index is accessed via the Archive area of the newsstand on the reader . The user may sort the list in a limited number of ways for example by title date of purchase or date of publication in ascending or descending order. In at least one embodiment the list includes a display of thumbnail image covers of magazines to help the user more easily locate the desired issue.

In at least one embodiment of the invention when the user wants to recover a magazine file he goes online to the system and enters the archive area of the newsstand on the reader . The magazine encryption and distribution service displays the list of magazines that the user has purchased or for which the user is qualified or approved to access. The user then selects a magazine from the list and confirms the download of the file the key token or both to a location in the local archive specified by the user see e.g. the screen shot of . In at least one embodiment the separation of the key file and ZNO file allows the case of corrupted keys to be quickly remedied letting the user back into his magazine. Because the same IssueID will be used any annotation files that have been created re associate with the restored magazine file.

In at least one embodiment of the invention the system includes an enhanced services archive that extends the offline archive into the online archive by attempting to mirror the user s offline archive organizational structure and interface. Each issue that the user has access to is represented by a cover thumbnail and located in the appropriate category folder in the archive area of the newsstand. Any clippings in the category folders are also mirrored in the online archive. Any annotations for a particular issue are also archived.

By having the online archive be a superset of the offline archive the user can log onto any machine and restore a selected subset of magazines and clippings along with any annotations he may have been added. In one embodiment to simplify potential difficulties with keeping the online archive up to date the user sets parameters that automatically synchronize at a given event like opening the reader when a connection was available or scheduled time like every Sunday evening.

In one embodiment to restore get an archived issue or group of files the user goes online to the system and enters the archive area of the newsstand. There the magazine encryption and distribution service displays the issues using cover thumbnails and organized in the same manner as the user s My Collection area. The user selects a file or folder by clicking on the cover folder icon and confirming the download with or without annotations. The reader places the file s in the proper categories in the offline archive area.

In at least one embodiment synchronization between archives can occur automatically or manually. Manual synchronization is initiated when the manual synchronization button located in the archive area of the newsstand is activated. When synchronizing any article clippings and annotation files that have been modified since the last synchronization will be copied to the online archive. Files are not deleted during the synchronization process. Any changes to the organizational structure of the offline archive are also updated.

In another aspect the invention provides an electronic magazine reading device and another embodiment of a system for reading the content described herein. is a diagram of an electronic magazine system implemented in accordance with an embodiment of this aspect of the invention. The electronic magazine system of includes a data converter module a data server and a reading device and interacts with at least one publisher .

In the data server is a central repository of all magazines that allows the user to retrieve updates or replacement for damaged media. In addition the data server can provide features like article page rip out a feature that permits users to get a copy of the article that looks exactly like the article looked when it appeared in the publication as if the user had been able to rip it out of an actual magazine . The data server allocates a portion of storage space for each respective reader device to which it sends information. In addition the data server stores an exact copy of each publication that has been ordered by and or sent to one of the reader devices .

When the data server receives a request from a reader device for a rip out of an article page the data server transmits to the allocated storage space the portion of the stored publication corresponding to the stored page s . The user can then use the reader device to communicate with the data server to tell it what should be done with the ripped out page s . For example the page s could be sent to another user such by electronically mailing it directly to the user posted to a particular WWW site printed added to a library of stored articles and the like.

The reader device of is a device capable of reading the electronic magazine such as a computer or a wireless reader device. In the illustrated embodiment the reader device is the only interface with the content and data server . The reader device in at least one embodiment comprises an electronic device for displaying magazine content having two opposing surfaces joined by a hinge such that the reader can look at two opposing pages in a manner similar to reading a magazine. The opposing surfaces in other embodiments are connected by other means capable of creating a magazine like feel such as a spiral edge flexible brackets and the like. To keep the reader device as small and magazine like as possible the reader device is light in weight less than an inch thick and has approximately a twelve inch diagonal screen size so as to closely replicate an actual magazine in size. This reader device is structured and arranged such that the reading experience feels the same as printed magazine with exactly the same text and graphics appearing on the screen as appear in printed magazines.

In addition as described more fully herein the electronic magazine system of an embodiment of the invention includes interactive features to enhance the experience of the user is capable of downloading information using various techniques including wireless and or cellular techniques and is capable of storing up to one thousand pages approximately five magazines . The electronic magazine system of this embodiment is for example suitable for travelers both business and general is capable of being used under many different lighting conditions and is small enough to be stored in a briefcase.

Given the bandwidth constraints in delivering the magazine content directly to the reader device from the data server at least one embodiment of the invention seeks to minimize the size of the size of the magazine file. In one embodiment the PDF data format is used because of the smaller data files that that result and the superior text legibility. In some embodiments of the invention however other data transfer formats such as JPEG HTML with no zoom level or with two zoom levels are usable.

In another aspect the electronic magazine system of this embodiment of the invention goes beyond the available ROCKET EBOOK and EVERYBOOK products by providing users with the ability to interact with at least a portion of the content appearing in the electronic periodical being viewed. As explained previously the electronic magazine system of this aspect provides a back end infrastructure whereby at least a portion of the content in the periodical and transactions associated with the electronic magazine are routed through a centralized data server . This routing also permits the user to seamlessly order products and or services appearing in the magazine whether appearing in advertisements or features .

In one embodiment this is accomplished by the user s double touching e.g. double clicking the product or service of interest which cause a information relating to the product or service for sale to appear on the screen of the wireless reading device e.g. via a pop up screen . The user selects what he or she wishes to order and touches the screen to at preselected locations on the image e.g. an order button to submit the order. Then the reader device sends the information to the data server . The data server receives the order from the user and sends the information to the seller not shown in so that the seller can fulfill the order. In one embodiment the data server receives the order from the user and stores the order information so that it can later be transmitted to the seller.

In another embodiment the data server monitors information relating to orders placed using the reader device e.g. what seller the order corresponds to what magazine the advertisement appeared in how many orders resulted from particular advertisements etc. In that manner the sellers and magazine publishers can learn how successful their advertisements are enabling sellers to market more effectively and magazine publishers to more accurately price space in their magazines. This feature also enables the magazine publishers to tailor the advertisements placed in a magazine selectively for specific subscribers while still maintaining the rest of the magazine content exactly the same as the printed publication counterpart.

For example in one embodiment the data server tracks the ordering habits of subscribers to learn that a particular group of subscribers orders a lot of clothing from the magazines that they read but never orders cosmetics. The magazine publisher when provided with this information provides to the data converter a version of the magazine for this particular group of subscribers wherein the version of the magazine contains ads tailored to the buying habits of that group of subscribers. For example instead of a full page cosmetics advertisement that regularly appears on page 5 of the magazine the publisher might instead substitute a different advertisement relating to clothing.

The above described process can also work in the reverse. Because the reader device is capable of transmitting information such as user profiles to the data server along with marketing data requests for information requests to purchase and or subscribe to magazines etc. a user can also tell the publisher directly the type of information in which the user is interested. For example when ordering a subscription to a magazine the user can indicate specific areas of interest the data server can track and organize this information and the information can be provided to the magazine publishers so that at least a portion of the content including but not limited to advertisements can be adjusted accordingly.

The interaction described above is not limited of course to commerce transactions. In one embodiment the system permits the user to touch a portion of a displayed page to get more information about a particular topic that is displayed there or to get information relating to related magazines and or articles relating to the area touched. This additional information is stored at the data server can be organized at the data converter and is linked to as desired by the user of the reader device .

The following provides a more detailed description of the reader device in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. The reader device is implemented using a platform such as the Intel x86 PC platform. However because the reader device is dedicated to a single function in this embodiment only a subset of the PC platform is provided. For example in this embodiment the printer port disk drive interfaces audio mouse and keyboard functions are not implemented. However it should be understood that as technological improvements enable these functions to be implemented in more compact and or lightweight ways any one or more of these features can be added to the reader device .

The display for the reader device comprises at least one LCD flat panel display to meet the requirements for small physical volume and low power. However the invention is usable with any type of lightweight low power display. At present the available displays that are feasible for a briefcase sized device support a resolution of 1024 768 pixels commonly known as XGA. With these displays this is the resolution and aspect ratio that bitmap graphics are optimized for during the PDF generation process. For the best possible viewing angle and color fidelity this embodiment of the invention uses active matrix displays with backlighting. In another embodiment given the presence of the touch screens backlighting is increased. As other types of technologies such as plasma technologies micro mirrors arrays of organic light emitting diodes LED s and the like become smaller and less power consuming screens implemented in accordance with these technologies can be usable in accordance with the invention as well.

The interfaces between the reader device and the data server comprise touch screens and or ancillary buttons. In one embodiment of the invention to ensure high resolution when touched by a finger resistive touch screen technology is used. However those skilled in the art will recognize that other types of touch screen technology such as capacitive near field imaging scanning infrared IR surface acoustic wave SAW and or strain gauges can be used.

In one embodiment the buttons perform functions related more to the reader device itself than to the screens so the buttons are used less often than the touch screen. The buttons can be discrete mechanical switches or membrane style switches either snap dome or conductive rubber. To keep the reader device as thin and as low cost as possible the buttons can be made of conductive rubber.

The PDF data memory can be any type of memory having a good balance between low profile low cost and best capacity. For example in one embodiment the PDF data memory can be any of the following types of memory MiniDisc data Click Superdisk 80 mm CD ROM Iomega Zip ATOMlite IBM Microdrive MemoryStick CompactFlash I CompactFlash II or ATA flash. Other types and styles of data memory are usable in accordance with the invention.

The batteries can be any type of battery having a good balance between charge density versus weight and volume. For example the batteries can be any of the following types Lithium Polymer Lithium ion or Nickel Metal Hydride.

The processor can be any type of processor having a good balance between low power board space cost and Intel x86 compatibility such as National Semiconductor s Geode family and the Crusoe family. Other possibilities for the processor include the Intel North South Bridge or the Asilian Technologies LCD Controller.

The case for the reader device can be manufactured using any process known to those skilled in the art such as Thixmolding injection molding sheetmetal processing die casting and the like.

Although the reader device of at least one embodiment is a two screen configuration in another embodiment the reader device also is implemented as a single screen configuration such as a tablet.

A future application of at least one embodiment of the electronic magazine systems of the invention that are described herein may be in a new wireless LAN technology being developed called Bluetooth. This technology is targeted at smaller personal networks. These networks typically operate at 1 Mbps and only cover about a 10 m radius area. The impact of Bluetooth will be in the constant connectivity of devices in a room. However because the nodes are small and stationary the impact on data transfers while the user is in transit will be minimal. While at a location Bluetooth may be adequate for magazine updates. A competing standard with similar characteristics is also being developed called HomeRF.

For at least one embodiment of the electronic magazine system described herein the wireless WAN improvements will have the greatest impact with cellular likely to be the greatest contributor. A convergence between North American and global standards is expected. Japan is leading the way as a test bed for such 3G third generation technologies which rely heavily on an evolving set of technologies called W CDMA wideband Code Division Multiple Access . By the year 2003 the data rate is expected to be about 2 Mbps.

As those skilled in the art will recognize the invention described herein can be modified to accommodate and or comply with any one or more of the above described technologies and standards. In addition variations modifications and other implementations of what is described herein can occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention as claimed.

It should be understood that in the Figures of this application in some instances a plurality of system elements or method steps may be shown as illustrative of a particular system element and a single system element or method step may be shown as illustrative of a plurality of a particular systems elements or method steps. It should be understood that showing a plurality of a particular element or step is not intended to imply that a system or method implemented in accordance with the invention must comprise more than one of that element or step nor is it intended by illustrating a single element or step that the invention is limited to embodiments having only a single one of that respective elements or steps. In addition the total number of elements or steps shown for a particular system element or method is not intended to be limiting those skilled in the art will recognize that the number of a particular system element or method steps can in some instances be selected to accommodate the particular user needs.

It also should be noted that the previous illustrations of screen shots together with the accompanying descriptions are provided by way of example only and are not limiting. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many different designs of interfaces screen shots navigation patterns and the like are within the spirit and scope of the invention.

Although the invention has been described and pictured in a preferred form with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure of the preferred form has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction and combination and arrangement of parts may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as hereinafter claimed.

