---

title: System and method for communicating data using weighted bit soft decisions for differentially encoded phase shift keying
abstract: A receiver includes a signal input for receiving a differentially-encoded quadrature phase-shift keyed (DEQPSK) communication signal. A demodulator performs bit decisions on a received coherent symbol and bit decisions on a received differential symbol. A processor is operative with the demodulator and scales a soft decision by a factor from 0 to 1 when the results of the bit decisions on the received coherent branch and differential branch are different.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07995678&OS=07995678&RS=07995678
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 07995678
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071128
---
The present invention relates to communications systems and more particularly the present invention relates to communications systems that use differentially encoded phase shift keying modulation combined with forward error correction techniques.

Some multi band or other tactical radios operate in the high frequency HF very high frequency VHF and ultra high frequency UHF bands. The frequency range of these multi band tactical radios is from about 2 MHz to about 512 MHz. Next generation radios will probably cover about 2.0 to about 2 000 MHz or higher to accommodate wider bandwidths higher data rates and less crowded frequency bands. Several standards have been developed for the different frequency bands. For HF US MIL STD 188 110B and US MIL STD 188 141B specify waveforms and minimum performance requirements of waveforms and radio equipment the disclosures which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

UHF standards on the other hand provide different challenges over the 225 to about 512 MHz frequency range including short haul line of sight LOS communication and satellite communications SATCOM and cable. UHF waveforms operate through different weather conditions foliage and other obstacles making UHF SATCOM an indispensable communications medium for many agencies. Different directional antennas can be used to improve antenna gain and improve data rates on the transmit and receive links. This type of communication is typically governed in one example by MIL STD 188 181B the disclosure which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. This standard specifies a family of constant and non constant amplitude waveforms for use over satellite links.

The joint tactical radio system JTRS implements some of these standards and has different designs that use oscillators mixers switchers splitters combiners and power amplifier devices to cover different frequency ranges. The modulation schemes used for these types of systems can occupy a fixed bandwidth channel at a fixed carrier frequency or can be frequency hopped. These systems usually utilize memoryless modulations such as M ary phase shift keying M PSK where M ary is the number of choices available for example to send 2 bits one would use 2 ary M ary amplitude shift keying M ASK M ary frequency shift keying M FSK M ary quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM or modulations with memory such as continuous phase modulation CPM and combine them with a convolutional or other type of forward error correction code. To ensure interoperability standardized waveforms are often used.

In addition to specifying the modulations used for interoperability in military standards minimum performance requirements are often included. For example existing MIL STD 188 183 and 183A terminals require acquisition and demodulation of differential quadrature phase shift keyed DEQPSK waveforms at bit error rate BER specification points very close to 1 decibel dB from the theoretical limit allowing very small modem implementation losses and very stringent testing requirements. To cope with these tight BER performance requirements improvements to the DEQPSK bit soft decisions used in the decoding of the rate 1 2 K 7 convolutional forward error correction code would be advantageous.

A modulation which eliminates the need for phase frequency tracking is DEQPSK. Instead of transmitting data implicitly in the phase of the carrier i.e. QPSK DEQPSK sends the data as a change in phase between the last transmitted phase or symbol and the current phase or symbol . For example assuming a starting phase of 0 and assuming data bits are sent as a

Possible improvements in performance are possible by modifying the demodulation process to be closer to coherent. If a phase frequency tracker were used it is possible to reduce the noise of the last received symbol by demodulating as if the waveform were QPSK instead of DEQPSK and then re mapping the QPSK bits back to DEQPSK bits i.e. please note the huge difference in transmitted phases for the same input data between QPSK and DEQPSK in examples provided earlier .

A receiver includes a signal input for receiving a differentially encoded quadrature phase shift keyed DEQPSK communication signal. A demodulator performs bit decisions on a received non differential phase i.e. coherent and bit decisions on a received differential phase. A processor is operative with the demodulator and scales the bit soft decisions by a factor from 0 to 1 or higher when the results of the bit decisions made on the coherent branch and differential branch are different.

The processor is also operative for obtaining a last received symbol conjugating the symbol and multiplying it by a current received symbol such that the phase change between the two symbols corresponds to an estimate of the data. A phase tracker is operative with the demodulator for tracking phase and frequency in order to demodulate a coherent estimate of data. This processor is operative with the demodulator for obtaining an estimate of the data using the phase tracker.

In yet another aspect the processor is operative for obtaining a differential phase by correlating previous results from current results to obtain a difference in phase. An absolute phase i.e. coherent demodulation can also be obtained via a frequency phase tracker and this QPSK demodulated data can then be used to determine the DEQPSK data that would have resulted in the current received coherent phase using a look up table and the previous received QPSK symbol. Note that this conversion is necessary since transmitted data is not the received symbol as would be the case for QPSK but the difference in phase between the last symbol and current symbol because we are trying to demodulate a DEQPSK waveform using a coherent process .

Different embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments are shown. Many different forms can be set forth and described embodiments should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope to those skilled in the art.

It should be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the approach to be described is not limited for use with any particular communication standard wireless or otherwise and can be adapted for use with numerous wireless or wired communications standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS extended data rate Bluetooth Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Wireless LAN WLAN Ultra Wideband UWB coaxial cable radar optical etc. Further the invention is not limited for use with a specific PHY or radio type but is applicable to other compatible technologies as well.

Throughout this description the term communications device is defined as any apparatus or mechanism adapted to transmit receive or transmit and receive data through a medium. The communications device may be adapted to communicate over any suitable medium such as RF wireless infrared optical wired microwave etc. In the case of wireless communications the communications device may comprise an RF transmitter RF receiver RF transceiver or any combination thereof. Wireless communication involves radio frequency communication microwave communication for example long range line of sight via highly directional antennas or short range communication and or infrared IR short range communication. Applications may involve point to point communication point to multipoint communication broadcasting cellular networks and other wireless networks.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art a method data processing system or computer program product can embody different examples in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention. Accordingly these portions may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore portions may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

The description as presented below can apply with reference to flowchart illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

For purposes of description a typical high frequency communications system used for transmitting and receiving digital data is described with reference to . This system can communicate using different standards and waveforms including waveforms pertaining to the MIL STD 188 110B and MIL STD 188 181C standard for integrated waveforms and MIL STD 188 183 and 183A terminals. The system and method can employ this technology and adopt it and apply the improved weighting of DEQPSK soft decisions in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention.

As shown in for this typical HF communications system at a transmit section a data stream Src that is to be transmitted is forwarded as 1 s and 0 s as is typical. The encoder is operative as a Forward Error Correction FEC encoder and applies a FEC algorithm to the data which passes to an interleaver which interleaves the data which is then modulated by a modulator . In some prior art systems having similar functions differential modulation is applied at this point. The modulated data is passed into a transmit digital low pass filter and then up converted by a digital up conversion circuit from baseband to an 1800 Hz carrier in this one non limiting example. A radio transmit filter RTF limits the bandwidth of the transmit waveform to about 3 KHz. The data is passed to a high frequency multi path and fading channel simulator circuit meant to simulate an HF channel where multi path is modeled as a tapped delay line and each tap in the tapped delay line has fading characteristics based on the Watterson model.

At a receiver section a radio receive filter limits the bandwidth of the data signal to about 3 KHz. The data is digitally down converted in the converter from 1800 Hz carrier to baseband in this non limiting example. The data passes into a receive digital low pass filter that is ideally the same as the transmit digital low pass filter TDF . The demodulation occurs followed by deinterleaving within a deinterleaver circuit . The forward error correction FEC decoder circuit decodes the data and passes it as a received bit stream Sink .

In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention a DEQPSK receiver modem recovers the phase and frequency of the transmitted signal with coherent demodulation and also differentially demodulates the received samples. It should be understood that differential phase shift keying modulation degrades system performance when compared to coherent demodulation but simplifies the receiver complexity by not requiring a frequency and phase tracker. To demodulate a DEPSK waveform one simply compares the last received symbol to the current one. For example the last received symbol would serve as a reference and a 1 could be denoted by no change in the phase between last symbol and current symbol and a 0 could be denoted by a change of 180 degrees. It should be understood that phase shift keying is a digital modulation scheme that conveys data by changing or modulating the phase of a carrier signal. PSK uses a finite number of phases with each phase assigned a unique pattern of binary bits. At the demodulator the phase of the received signal is determined and mapped back to the symbol it represents to recover the original data. In a coherent system the receiver compares the phase of the received signal to a reference signal not to last symbol received as DEPSK would . This reference signal requires a phase frequency tracker in order to work correctly. Quadrature phase shift keying QPSK uses four points on the constellation diagram equally spaced around a circle. QPSK encodes two bits per symbol typically. A QPSK system can use a binary bit stream that is serial to parallel converted and encoded within two steams using a pair of NRZ encoders where the binary data stream is split into the N phase and quadrature phase components and separately modulated onto two orthogonal basis functions using two sinusoids. The two signals are superimposed and the resulting signal is the QPSK. Polar non return to zero encoding is possible.

It is possible with the system in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention to demodulate coherently and demodulate non coherently. For the differential demodulator it is possible to take the last received phase or last symbol conjugate it and multiply it by the current phase or current symbol . The delta or change is the data. For DEQPSK data is encoded in the phase difference between the last symbol and the current symbol. The last symbol could be rotated by 0 90 180 or 270 degrees and transmitted as the next symbol. At the receiver the last symbol is used as a reference for the next symbol.

Soft decision processes are often used. It should be understood that soft decision decoding typically has a demodulator assign a confidence value to each output bit in addition to a hard binary 0 or 1 decision. Confidence information can be used to improve the decoding process. Hard decision decoding on the other hand receives samples that are compared to the output of a demodulator to an optimal threshold. Hard decisions are taken and fed to a decoder where the errors are corrected. For example when a bit is 1 the signal level exceeds a predetermined level and when a bit is 0 the signal level falls below a predetermined level.

In soft decision decoding on the other hand received samples are typically quantized in a multiple bit word and fed to a decoder. Multiple bits can provide soft information representing a confidence level in the received data that can perform more reliable decoding than the case of hard decision decoding.

In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention a coherent phase tracker is incorporated in the receive modem and operative as a phase locked loop to demodulate coherently. The phase tracker can guarantee that a noise free received phase is one of the four expected values 0 90 180 and or 270 degrees . A look up table can be used to determine the actual DEQPSK data that was used to obtain the coherent symbol. When the hard decision data obtained from the differential demodulation differs from data obtained using coherent demodulation the soft decisions either differential coherent or a combination of both can be scaled by a small number to include the loss of confidence is these bits. Thus the system can weigh soft decisions for bits that are considered unreliable. This weighting i.e. scaling can also vary as a function of SNR.

Typically with a DEQPSK signal the system does not have to recover the transmitted phase. The current phase can be subtracted from the previous phase and the system differences the received phase from symbol to symbol to determine the data. In QPSK the transmitted phase is the data. For the 181B standard the differential performance can be enhanced because the system already is accomplishing coherent processing of a preamble and the phase tracker allows coherent demodulation.

In the system the DEQPSK receive modem can recover the phase and frequency of a transmitted signal as a coherent demodulation process. In a non limiting example of the present invention the soft decisions are calculated as a hybrid of the standard distance equation 

The system can perform bit hard decisions on the received coherent phase after re mapping and can perform bit hard decisions on the differential phase. When the decisions differ the system scales the computed bit soft decision by a factor from 0 to 1.

Since the computation of bit soft decisions can be computationally intensive a look up table can be used instead. To further reduce the size of table only one quadrant of soft decisions can be stored and the determination of whether soft decisions are positive or negative can be done based on the quadrant of the demodulated symbol. The distance value could be computed for the most significant bit MSB and least significant bit LSB . It is possible to perform the soft decision calculations in a digital signal processor DSP in a sequential fashion. It is also possible to perform the soft decision calculations in a parallel fashion such as in a field programmable gate array FPGA . The phase tracker helps obtain the coherent data. The differential data is obtained by subtracting a previous phase from the current phase. Thus two separate sets of data values can be obtained for each symbol. In a hard decision the phase value is converted to two bits and this can be done simultaneously or sequentially with the differential calculation. The soft decisions can be scaled by a value to compensate for unreliability.

As shown in the graph of with a zeroed soft decision performance is improved by about 0.3 dB with low computational complexity. Although 0.3 dB sounds small it could be the difference between meeting the tight BER performance requirements of standards.

It is also possible to use a fixed point conversion table that can be created from pre calculating the possible phase coordinates and generating a table that uses each possible X and Y coordinate with a corresponding soft decision value. For a fixed point integer digital signal processor it is faster and more simple to do a table look up than calculate a square root which often could be a never ending series of divisions and additions when implemented as a power series.

It should be understood that a software version of a Viterbi algorithm with a generic Viterbi decoder and a 16 bit soft decision branch metrics can be used as disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 625 305 filed Jan. 20 2007 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

For purposes of description some background information on coding interleaving and an exemplary wireless mobile radio communications system that includes ad hoc capability and can be modified for use is set forth. This example of a communications system that can be used and modified for use with the present invention is now set forth with regard to .

An example of a radio that could be used with such system and method is a Falcon III radio manufactured and sold by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This type of radio can support multiple wavebands form 30 MHz up to 2 GHz including L band SATCOM and MANET. The waveforms can provide secure IP data networking. It should be understood that different radios can be used including software defined radios that can be typically implemented with relatively standard processor and hardware components. One particular class of software radio is the Joint Tactical Radio JTR which includes relatively standard radio and processing hardware along with any appropriate waveform software modules to implement the communication waveforms a radio will use. JTR radios also use operating system software that conforms with the software communications architecture SCA specification see www.jtrs.saalt.mil which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The SCA is an open architecture framework that specifies how hardware and software components are to interoperate so that different manufacturers and developers can readily integrate the respective components into a single device.

The Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS Software Component Architecture SCA defines a set of interfaces and protocols often based on the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA for implementing a Software Defined Radio SDR . In part JTRS and its SCA are used with a family of software re programmable radios. As such the SCA is a specific set of rules methods and design criteria for implementing software re programmable digital radios.

The JTRS SCA specification is published by the JTRS Joint Program Office JPO . The JTRS SCA has been structured to provide for portability of applications software between different JTRS SCA implementations leverage commercial standards to reduce development cost reduce development time of new waveforms through the ability to reuse design modules and build on evolving commercial frameworks and architectures.

The JTRS SCA is not a system specification as it is intended to be implementation independent but a set of rules that constrain the design of systems to achieve desired JTRS objectives. The software framework of the JTRS SCA defines the Operating Environment OE and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE comprises a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The JTRS SCA also provides a building block structure defined in the API Supplement for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The JTRS SCA Core Framework CF is an architectural concept defining the essential core set of open software Interfaces and Profiles that provide for the deployment management interconnection and intercommunication of software application components in embedded distributed computing communication systems. Interfaces may be defined in the JTRS SCA Specification. However developers may implement some of them some may be implemented by non core applications i.e. waveforms etc. and some may be implemented by hardware device providers.

For purposes of description only a brief description of an example of a communications system that includes communications devices that incorporate the filter in accordance with a non limiting example is described relative to a non limiting example shown in . This high level block diagram of a communications system includes a base station segment and wireless message terminals that could be modified for use with the present invention. The base station segment includes a VHF radio and HF radio that communicate and transmit voice or data over a wireless link to a VHF net or HF net each which include a number of respective VHF radios and HF radios and personal computer workstations connected to the radios . Ad hoc communication networks are interoperative with the various components as illustrated. The entire network can be ad hoc and include source destination and neighboring mobile nodes. Thus it should be understood that the HF or VHF networks include HF and VHF net segments that are infrastructure less and operative as the ad hoc communications network. Although UHF and higher frequency radios and net segments are not illustrated these could be included.

The radio can include a demodulator circuit and appropriate convolutional encoder circuit block interleaver data randomizer circuit data and framing circuit modulation circuit matched filter circuit block or symbol equalizer circuit with an appropriate clamping device deinterleaver and decoder circuit modem and power adaptation circuit as non limiting examples A vocoder circuit can incorporate the decode and encode functions and a conversion unit could be a combination of the various circuits as described or a separate circuit. A clock circuit can establish the physical clock time and through second order calculations as described below a virtual clock time. The network can have an overall network clock time. These and other circuits operate to perform any functions necessary for the present invention as well as other functions suggested by those skilled in the art. Other illustrated radios including all VHF or UHF and higher frequency mobile radios and transmitting and receiving stations can have similar functional circuits. Radios could range from 30 MHz to about 2 GHz as non limiting examples.

The base station segment includes a landline connection to a public switched telephone network PSTN which connects to a PABX . A satellite interface such as a satellite ground station connects to the PABX which connects to processors forming wireless gateways . These interconnect to the VHF radio or HF radio respectively. The processors are connected through a local area network to the PABX and e mail clients . The radios include appropriate signal generators and modulators.

An Ethernet TCP IP local area network could operate as a radio mail server. E mail messages could be sent over radio links and local air networks using STANAG 5066 as second generation protocols waveforms the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and of course preferably with the third generation interoperability standard STANAG 4538 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An interoperability standard FED STD 1052 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety could be used with legacy wireless devices. Examples of equipment that can be used in the present invention include different wireless gateway and radios manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This equipment could include RF5800 5022 7210 5710 5285 and PRC 117 and 138 series equipment and devices as non limiting examples.

These systems can be operable with RF 5710A high frequency HF modems and with the NATO standard known as STANAG 4539 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety which provides for transmission of long distance radio at rates up to 9 600 bps. In addition to modem technology those systems can use wireless email products that use a suite of data link protocols designed and perfected for stressed tactical channels such as the STANAG 4538 or STANAG 5066 the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. It is also possible to use a fixed non adaptive data rate as high as 19 200 bps with a radio set to ISB mode and an HF modem set to a fixed data rate. It is possible to use code combining techniques and ARQ.

A communications system that incorporates communications devices can be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention and is shown in . A transmitter is shown at and includes basic functional circuit components or modules including a forward error correction encoder that includes a puncturing module which could be integral to the encoder or a separate module. The decoder and its puncturing module includes a function for repeating as will be explained below. Encoded data is interleaved at an interleaver for example a block interleaver and in many cases modulated at modulator . This modulator can map the communications data into different symbols based on a specific mapping algorithm to form a communications signal. For example it could form Minimum Shift Keying or Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying MSK or GMSK symbols. Other types of modulation could be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. Up conversion and filtering occurs at an up converter and filter which could be formed as an integrated module or separate modules. Communications signals are transmitted for example wirelessly to receiver .

At the receiver down conversion and filtering occurs at a down converter and filter which could be integrated or separate modules. The signal is demodulated at demodulator and deinterleaved at deinterleaver . The deinterleaved data i.e. bit soft decisions is decoded and depunctured for punctured codes combined for repeated codes and passed through for standard codes at decoder which could include a separate or integrated depuncturing module. The system apparatus and method can use different modules and different functions. These components as described could typically be contained within one transceiver.

It should be understood in one non limiting aspect of the present invention a rate 1 2 K 7 convolutional code can be used as an industry standard code for forward error correction FEC during encoding. For purposes of understanding a more detailed description of basic components now follows. A convolutional code is an error correcting code and usually has three parameters n k m with n equal to the number of output bits k equal to the number of input bits and m equal to the number of memory registers in one non limiting example. The quantity k n could be called the code rate with this definition and is a measure of the efficiency of the code. K and n parameters can range from 1 to 8 m can range from 2 to 10 and the code rate can range from 1 8 to 7 8 in non limiting examples. Sometimes convolutional code chips are specified by parameters n k L with L equal to the constraint length of the code as L k m 1 . Thus the constraint length can represent the number of bits in an encoder memory that would affect the generation of n output bits. Sometimes the letters may be switched depending on the definitions used.

The transformation of the encoded data is a function of the information symbols and the constraint length of the code. Single bit input codes can produce punctured codes that give different code rates. For example when a rate 1 2 code is used the transmission of a subset of the output bits of the encoder can convert the rate 1 2 code into a rate 2 3 code. Thus one hardware circuit or module can produce codes of different rates. Punctured codes allow rates to be changed dynamically through software or hardware depending on channel conditions such as rain or other channel impairing conditions.

An encoder for a convolutional code typically uses a look up table for encoding which usually includes an input bit as well as a number of previous input bits known as the state of the encoder the table value being the output bit or bits of the encoder. It is possible to view the encoder function as a state diagram a tree diagram or a trellis diagram.

Decoding systems for convolutional codes can use 1 sequential decoding or 2 maximum likelihood decoding also referred to as Viterbi decoding which typically is more desirable. Sequential decoding allows both forward and backward movement through the trellis. Viterbi decoding as maximum likelihood decoding examines a receive sequence of given length computes a metric for each path and makes a decision based on the metric.

Puncturing convolutional codes is a common practice in some systems and is used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. It should be understood that in some examples a punctured convolutional code is a higher rate code obtained by the periodic elimination of specific code bits from the output of a low rate encoder. Punctured convolutional code performance can be degraded compared with original codes but typically the coding rate increases.

Some of the basic components that could be used as non limiting examples of the present invention include a transmitter that incorporates a convolutional encoder which encodes a sequence of binary input vectors to produce the sequence of binary output vectors and can be defined using a trellis structure. An interleaver for example a block interleaver can permute the bits of the output vectors. The interleaved data would also be modulated at the transmitter by mapping to transmit symbols and transmitted. At a receiver a demodulator demodulates the signal.

A block deinterleaver recovers the bits that were interleaved. A Viterbi decoder could decode the deinterleaved bit soft decisions to produce binary output data.

Often a Viterbi forward error correction module or core is used that would include a convolutional encoder and Viterbi decoder as part of a radio transceiver as described above. For example if the constraint length of the convolutional code is 7 the encoder and Viterbi decoder could support selectable code rates of 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 using industry standard puncturing algorithms.

Different design and block systems parameters could include the constraint length as a number of input bits over which the convolutional code is computed and a convolutional code rate as the ratio of the input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncturing rate could include a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using the puncturing process for example derived from a rate 1 2 code. The Viterbi decoder parameters could include the convolutional code rate as a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncture rate could be the ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using a puncturing process and can be derived from a rate 1 2 mother code. The input bits could be the number of processing bits for the decoder. The Viterbi input width could be the width of input data i.e. soft decisions to the Viterbi decoder. A metric register length could be the width of registers storing the metrics. A trace back depth could be the length of path required by the Viterbi decoder to compute the most likely decoded bit value. The size of the memory storing the path metrics information for the decoding process could be the memory size. In some instances a Viterbi decoder could include a First In First Out FIFO buffer between depuncture and Viterbi function blocks or modules. The Viterbi output width could be the width of input data to the Viterbi decoder.

The encoder could include a puncturing block circuit or module as noted above. Usually a convolutional encoder may have a constraint length of 7 and take the form of a shift register with a number of elements for example 6. One bit can be input for each clock cycle. Thus the output bits could be defined by a combination of shift register elements using a standard generator code and be concatenated to form an encoded output sequence. There could be a serial or parallel byte data interface at the input. The output width could be programmable depending on the punctured code rate of the application.

A Viterbi decoder in non limiting examples could divide the input data stream into blocks and estimate the most likely data sequence. Each decoded data sequence could be output in a burst. The input and calculations can be continuous and require four clock cycles for every two bits of data in one non limiting example. An input FIFO can be dependent on a depuncture input data rate.

It should also be understood that the present invention is not limited to convolutional codes and similar FEC but also turbo codes could be used as high performance error correction codes or low density parity check codes that approach the Shannon limit as the theoretical limit of maximum information transfer rate over a noisy channel. Thus some available bandwidth can be increased without increasing the power of the transmission. Instead of producing binary digits from the signal the front end of the decoder could be designed to produce a likelihood measure for each bit.

The system and extended preamble in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention can be used in multiprocessor embedded systems and related methods and also used for any type of radio software communications architecture as used on mainframe computers or small computers including laptops with an added transceiver such as used by military and civilian applications or in a portable wireless communications device as illustrated in . The portable wireless communications device is illustrated as a radio that can include a transceiver as an internal component and handheld housing with an antenna and control knobs. A Liquid Crystal Display LCD or similar display can be positioned on the housing in an appropriate location for display. The various internal components including dual processor systems for red and black subsystems and software that is conforming with SCA is operative with the illustrated radio. Although a portable or handheld radio is disclosed the architecture as described can be used with any processor system operative with the transceiver in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. An example of a communications device that could incorporate the system and method in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention is the Falcon III manpack or tactical radio platform manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

