---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for product randomization and analysis in a manufacturing environment
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products for implementing product randomization and analysis in a manufacturing environment are provided. A method includes processing products for a plurality of lots, at process equipment, using a randomization technique for selecting each product in the lots. The method further including generating an operation identification record for each operation in the process recipe that includes mapping, for each operation, a slot identifier associated with a randomly selected product to a process variable identifier, a process tool, and the operation. The method also includes defining slot groupings using slot identifiers for a product carrier and identifying product yield patterns by analyzing historical yields for each of the slot groupings. The method also includes determining the frequency of occurrence of one or more product yield patterns for each operation in the process recipe by analyzing product yields from the operation identification records corresponding to the plurality of lots.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08015040&OS=08015040&RS=08015040
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08015040
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070130
---
The present invention disclosure relates generally to manufacturing execution systems and in particular to methods systems and computer program products for implementing product randomization and analysis in a manufacturing environment using a process order variable.

In manufacturing environments products are grouped in lots as they travel through a process line. For example in a semiconductor manufacturing facility carriers transport 300 mm wafers to each process equipment in the line. Each lot may be contained in a front opening unified pod FOUP and wafers have a set slot position within the FOUP. It is not uncommon for events that occur during processing to cause variability in the yield of wafers located in certain slot positions. One example relates to a two chamber tool. If the first chamber is bad wafers in odd slots tend to be lower yield than wafers in even slots. Without using a randomization tool the slot position remains the same from the beginning of the processing line to the end. Therefore autocorrelation of the slot position to tool chambers makes it difficult if not impossible to distinguish between the many multi chamber tools in the line for the purpose of detecting the faulty chamber.

One current randomization method is to use mappers to physically randomize or shuffle the wafers in a FOUP at given points in the line. In this way the cause of a slot signal can be identified to be between two randomization steps depending upon the frequency of randomization in the process line. However this method is not without drawbacks. For example physical randomization techniques increase the overall process time i.e. the time required to shuffle the wafers as well as increase the costs of production e.g. additional costs for purchasing installing and maintaining the mappers . In addition using physical randomization is likely to render it difficult to distinguish between wafer handling events.

Another current randomization method is to logically randomize wafers by processing them in a random order at the process tool. Drawbacks to traditional logical randomization techniques include the inability to distinguish process effects by wafer position or location versus by process order as well as the inability to use slot location in performing slot pattern analysis.

What is needed therefore in a way to provide product randomization and analysis that overcome the aforementioned deficiencies.

Embodiments of the invention include methods for implementing product randomization and analysis in a manufacturing environment. A method includes processing products for a plurality of lots at process equipment using a randomization technique for selecting each product in the lots. The method further including generating an operation identification record for each operation in the process recipe that includes mapping for each operation a slot identifier associated with a randomly selected product to a process variable identifier a process tool and the operation. The method also includes defining slot groupings using slot identifiers for a product carrier and identifying product yield patterns by analyzing historical yields for each of the slot groupings. The method also includes determining the frequency of occurrence of one or more product yield patterns for each operation in the process recipe by analyzing product yields from the operation identification records corresponding to the plurality of lots.

Additional embodiments include systems for implementing product randomization and analysis in a manufacturing environment. A system includes a host system and a product randomization application executing on the host system. The product randomization application implements a method. The method includes processing products for a plurality of lots at process equipment using a randomization technique for selecting each product in the lots. The method further including generating an operation identification record for each operation in the process recipe that includes mapping for each operation a slot identifier associated with a randomly selected product to a process variable identifier a process tool and the operation. The method also includes identifying slot groupings using slot identifiers for a product carrier and identifying product yield patterns by analyzing historical yields for each of the slot groupings. The method also includes determining the frequency of occurrence of one or more product yield patterns for each operation in the process recipe by analyzing product yields from the operation identification records corresponding to the plurality of lots.

Further embodiments include computer program products for implementing product randomization and analysis in a manufacturing environment. A computer program product includes instructions for causing a computer to implement a method. The method includes defining slot groupings using slot identifiers for a product carrier and identifying product yield patterns by analyzing historical yields for each of the slot groupings. The method also includes processing products for a plurality of lots at process equipment using a randomization technique for selecting each product in the lots. The method further including generating an operation identification record for each operation in the process recipe that includes mapping for each operation a slot identifier associated with a randomly selected product to a process variable identifier a process tool and the operation. The method also includes determining the frequency of occurrence of one or more product yield patterns for each operation in the process recipe by analyzing product yields from the operation identification records corresponding to the plurality of lots.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within the description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the preferred embodiments of the invention together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

Methods systems and computer program products for implementing product randomization and analysis functions are provided in accordance with exemplary embodiments. The product randomization and analysis functions are implemented by defining slot patterns for carrier slot identifiers ids and implementing process variable slot identifier analysis using these definitions. For the analysis the physical slot identifiers are divided into groups based upon the process variable slot id which in turn is assigned based upon the process order of the product when using logical randomization techniques and the carrier slot id when using physical randomization techniques . A statistical model e.g. ANOVA may be used to check for any statistically significant differences between the various groups. A lot associated with a group determined to be significantly different from other groups is labeled as having a particular pattern. The results of the analysis may be graphically depicted to facilitate identification and resolution of issues effecting a process tool product or carrier.

The product randomization and analysis functions described herein are directed to a semiconductor manufacturing environment where product wafers are transported by a front opening unified pod FOUP to various process equipment including tools and tool chambers according to a process plan or recipe. However it will be understood that the principles described in the exemplary embodiments may be applied to other manufacturing environments with little or no modifications.

Turning now to a portion of a system upon which the product randomization and analysis functions may be implemented in accordance with exemplary embodiments will now be described. The system of includes a host system in communication with manufacturing equipment over one or more networks . In exemplary embodiments the host system is implemented by a manufacturing enterprise that has adopted enterprise standards such as SEMI or Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International headquartered in San Jose Calif.

The host system executes a variety of business applications utilized by an enterprise for facilitating the production processes occurring in the manufacturing environment of . Host system may be implemented by a computer with a high powered processor for handling the volume of production activities occurring in the manufacturing environment of . Types of business applications executed by host system may include a manufacturing execution system MES automated material handling systems AMHS and similar types of software. The AMHS manages the transport of materials within the manufacturing environment of and interfaces with the MES for receiving operation and scheduling information for processing of materials on equipment in the manufacturing area as well as other functions.

The host system also executes one or more applications for implementing the production randomization and analysis. These one or more applications are collectively referred to as a product randomization application . In addition host system may implement one or more graphics tools not shown for depicting pattern analyses and results of product yield analyses by operation as described further herein. It will be understood that the randomization e.g. logical or physical shuffling of products may be implemented by a separate application or device or may be integrated with the product randomization application .

The manufacturing equipment includes a carrier also referred to herein as transport device and process equipment . The manufacturing equipment may be maintained in one or more production bays that each includes process tools as well as work in process WIP materials engaged in or awaiting a process or procedure performed by the tools. Process tools may further include one or more tool chambers. Materials that may be used in manufacturing may include substances component parts assemblies and other items typically found in a manufacturing environment. For example in a semiconductor manufacturing environment the materials also referred to herein as products may include 300 mm wafers. WIP materials refer to those materials that are currently undergoing a machine process or en route between machines e.g. processing units or production bays. Products that are awaiting processing may be stored in local storage not shown . An interbay intrabay transport device e.g. carrier enables WIP materials to be conveyed between and within production bays respectively.

Each of the processing units provides one or more locations within the manufacturing environment of whereby a specified manufacturing process or processes are performed on the WIP materials in accordance with a manufacturing plan. Carrier may be a mechanized ground vehicle such as an automated guide vehicle AGV or personal guided vehicle PGV or may be an overhead transport OHT device supported by a monorail that transfers WIP materials between and within production bays.

While only one of each type of equipment is shown in the system of for ease of illustration it will be understood that multiple equipment devices e.g. carriers and process tools may be employed in order to realize the advantages of the exemplary embodiments.

Networks may comprise any type of communications network. In preferred embodiments networks include an Ethernet local area network LAN .

Host system is in communication with a storage device . Storage device stores a variety of data used by the host system . Storage device may be logically addressable to host system for receiving requests for data and communicating search results to the host system . One type of data stored in storage device is production data. Production data refers to the specific information used by the AMHS to perform transport activities in accordance with scheduled production operations. For example production data may include tables identifying each carrier carrier materials tool identifiers etc. In addition detail performance metrics may also be stored as part of production data such as product yields cycle times throughputs etc. These and other SEMI derived performance metrics standards may be utilized. Production data may also include process steps for manufacturing processes utilized including process routes for carriers the status of production activities occurring within production bays etc.

The storage device may also store transport process jobs. Transport process jobs may include work orders or directives that instruct the AMHS to carry out specified operations on candidate materials selected for movement.

In exemplary embodiments the storage device also stores defined slot patterns operation identifier records and pattern summaries. The slot patterns operation identifier records and summaries are facilitated via the product randomization and analysis functions and are described further herein.

The product randomization application may be integrated into an existing MES tool or may be implemented as stand alone product. If implemented as a stand alone product an application programming interface API may be employed to enable the production randomization application to communicate with MES as needed.

As indicated above the product randomization and analysis functions are implemented by defining slot patterns for carrier slot identifiers ids and implementing process variable slot identifier analysis using these definitions. For the analysis the physical slot identifiers are divided into groups based upon the process variable slot id which in turn is assigned based upon the process order of the product when using logical randomization techniques and the carrier slot id when using physical randomization techniques . A statistical model e.g. ANOVA may be used to check for any statistically significant differences between the various groups. A lot associated with a group determined to be significantly different from other groups is labeled as having a particular pattern. The results of the analysis may be graphically depicted to facilitate identification and resolution of issues effecting a process tool product or carrier. These functions are described further herein.

Turning now to a flow diagram describing a process for implementing the product randomization and analysis functions will now be described in accordance with exemplary embodiments.

At step the lots collective products in each carrier are processed at the process equipment according to a prescribed process plan or recipe. During this processing an operation identification record is generated for each operation performed in the process recipe at step . A sample operation identification record is shown in .

As shown in the operation identification record of each randomly selected product is assigned to a tool. The product randomization application assigns a process variable identifier to the selected product in the operation identification record . If a logical randomization technique is used the process variable identifier corresponds to a process sequence for the selected product i.e. based on the order in which the product is processed as compared to other products in the lot . If a physical randomization technique is employed the process variable identifier corresponds to the slot identifier of the selected product e.g. the two identifiers are the same . At step the selected product and corresponding slot identifier of the product is mapped to the process variable identifier in the operation identification record as shown in . Thus all products in the carrier are assigned process variable identifiers that are collectively stored in the operation identification record at step which record in turn corresponds to a single operation performed at a given tool.

At step carrier slot id groupings are defined. For illustrative purposes six groupings are defined below.

In exemplary embodiments the slot groupings are defined using a sequentially colored listing of slot identifiers associated with a carrier. By way of example slot grouping definition may include one or more of a slot identifier corresponding to the first physical slot in the product carrier a slot identifier corresponding to the last physical slot in the product carrier front and back groupings where the front grouping represents slot identifiers corresponding to slots located in an upper half of the product carrier and the back grouping represents slot identifiers corresponding to slots located in a lower half of the product carrier odd and even groupings where the odd grouping represents odd numbered slot identifiers and the even grouping represents even numbered slot identifiers for the product carrier every third slot corresponding to every third slot identifier in the sequentially ordered listing and every fourth slot corresponding to every fourth slot identifier in the sequentially ordered listing.

At step historical product yields are analyzed for each of the groupings defined in step . Through this analysis product yield patterns are identified at step . illustrate three sample product yield patterns resulting from the analysis of step . As shown in for example a high low pattern may signify an issue with one chamber of a two chamber tool. These product yield patterns may be stored in storage device .

At step the operation identification records and product yields for the processed lots are analyzed to determine the frequency of occurrence of a defined pattern for each of the operations in the process recipe. A sample summary chart is shown in . The summary chart of of illustrates a sample Pareto diagram in which the y axis represents the number of lots analyzed and the x axis represents each of the operations performed on the lots. The diagram reflects results of analysis performed for each individual lot at each randomization operation which have then been compared to each of the defined slot patterns. As shown in the Pareto diagram of ten lots have the first only pattern i.e. the slot pattern corresponding to the grouping where a slot identifier associated to the first physical slot in the product carrier is represented .

These summary diagrams provide useful information that may provide insight regarding issues associated with a process tool carrier etc. For example if a signature pattern is identified for a process tool the product randomization application may search the storage device to determine whether chamber records are available for this tool. If chamber information available chamber commonality analysis can be done automatically to point to a bad chamber within the tool. In addition hundreds of parametric variables and yield variables can be analyzed to identify which variable is highly dependent on a particular pattern. A user of the application may identify which variable has strong pattern signatures. For each signature and variable a Pareto chart may be built based on the number of lots with the signature at a single randomization step thereby enabling quick identification of bad process steps.

As described above embodiments can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. In exemplary embodiments the invention is embodied in computer program code executed by one or more network elements. Embodiments include computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into an executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. Embodiments include computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

