---

title: Metric portal
abstract: Various aspects are directed to a computer system for implementing an interface for presenting metric data to a user, the computer system may comprise a storage medium, which may, in turn, comprise a sitemap. The sitemap may define an organization of portal pages and wherein each portal page comprises at least one region defining a metric data type and a metric data presentation. The computer system may also comprise at least one processor configured to implement a controller unit. The controller unit may be configured to query a data source to retrieve a first data collection, where the first data collection comprises metric data of a first business context. The controller unit may also be configured to render a first portal page selected from the organization of portal pages according to the first data collection. In response to a request for a portal page change, the controller unit may be configured to render a second portal page selected from the organization of portal pages according to the first data collection. Also, in response to a request for a business context change, the controller unit may be configured to query the data source for a second data collection comprising metric data of a second business context; and render the second portal page according to the second data collection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098594&OS=09098594&RS=09098594
owner: MORGAN STANLEY SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS LLC
number: 09098594
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071228
---
The present disclosure relates to portal interfaces for aggregating and presenting information to a user.

Various embodiments are directed to a business metric portal for aggregating and presenting metric data to a user. Metric data may be any kind of descriptive data describing an entity e.g. a person a business or political organization etc. engaged in any kind of business or other endeavor. Many of the example embodiments described herein are configured to aggregate and present metric data related to a retail brokerage firm. It will be appreciated however that various embodiments may include portals for aggregating and presenting metric data describing other types of entities engaged in other types of endeavors instead of or in addition to that describing a retail brokerage firm.

The business metric portal may comprise a combination of topical e.g. portal pages and contextual e.g. business context aspects that may be independently navigable. In addition the business metric portal may simultaneously support multiple display platforms including for example different types of internet browsers personal digital assistants PDA s mobile phones etc. These and other features described herein may simplify maintainability enforce performance increase the navigability and findability of data within the interface. Also these features may make it faster and simpler to modify the business metric portal to handle and display business metrics from new areas as described herein below. According to various embodiments the topical contextual data retrieval presentational and navigational aspects of the portal may be implemented as a series of independent layers.

According to various embodiments a business metric portal may comprise a plurality of topical portal pages for defining spatial and other presentational aspects for metric data. The portal pages may be populated with metric data related to a common business topic e.g. Key Business Metrics Asset Mix Profitibility etc. . illustrates an example portal page from one embodiment of a business metric portal configured for use by a retail brokerage firm. The page is directed to the topic Key Business Metrics and comprises a plurality of spatially arranged regions . Each of the regions or portlets may define a metric data type or types and a presentation form. For example in region the metric data type is sales data by geographic area and the presentation form is a map. In region the metric data types are compensable revenue growth percentage assets under management growth percentage attributed to net new assets Financial Advisor FA population growth percentage and top FA retention all by geographic area. The presentation form is a series of charts. Regions and all show various metric data types in the form of a series of grids.

Different portal pages within the business metric portal may include metric data directed to different topics and in different presentations. For example different pages may be tailored to the needs of different people and or different tasks regarding the entity. As described above the page is directed to Key Business Metrics and presented in an arrangement that may be useful to personnel monitoring an entity or organizational unit thereof at a high level of generality. illustrates an example portal page from one embodiment of the business metric portal. The page is directed to Asset Mix and includes a region showing metric data related to different asset types on the vertical axis and different product account types on the horizontal axis. Accordingly the page may be useful to personnel managing asset mixes over different account types handled by the entity. illustrates an example portal page from one embodiment of the business metric portal. The page is directed to Financial Advisor Asset Mix and shows asset mix by financial advisor which may be useful to a manager of financial advisors. illustrates another example portal page from one embodiment of the business metric portal. The page is directed to a 13 month profitability trend may is shown to display metric data relating to profitability.

According to various embodiments portal pages within the business metric portal may be organized according to any suitable organization or taxonomy. For example illustrates one embodiment of a sample hierarchal organization of portal pages within a business metric portal. Each of the portal pages may be positioned at one of the levels of the hierarchy . The hierarchy or other organization of pages may be stored for example as a sitemap as described herein below. Although only two levels are shown in it will be appreciated that the hierarchy may include as many or as few levels as desired. The hierarchy shown in may be topical. For example pages configured to present metric data related to similar topics may be classified under a common branch of the hierarchy .

The various portal pages may include one or more regions e.g. such as regions of the page . Each region may be associated with a dataset and a renderer. The dataset may be a collection of data of the metric data type to be displayed in the region . The renderer may be a utility that renders the dataset according to the specified presentation form for viewing by a user. The dataset may include data of a particular metric data type for example determined by the topic of the page . The renderer may define a presentation form for the dataset. The datasets necessary to render all of the regions in a given page may be referred to as a data collection.

In addition to being categorized topically e.g. according to portal page metric data may also be categorized by business context. Business context may be independent of business topic e.g. portal page . A particular business context may be described by its position in a multidimensional taxonomy of business context axes with each axis corresponding to a dimension of metric data. For example metric data describing an entity may be classified across multiple dimensions. One example dimension may represent the organization structure of the entity with values corresponding to different organizational units. Other example dimensions may represent different product types financial instrument types employee laborer types etc. Some or all of the metric data may also be expressed in terms of a time dimension. An individual unit of metric data may be referenced across multiple dimensions. For example one unit of metric data for a retail brokerage firm may describe the revenue of a given organizational unit of the firm from a particular product type on a given day. Another example unit of metric data may describe the revenue generated by a particular financial advisor over a given quarter for a given type of security.

A business context may be represented by a value or range of values for each axis . If an additional axis or axes are included values for the additional axes may be required as well. Referring back to the page is shown populated with metric data of a context where the organizational structure axis is set at the national level of the firm the firm product type axis is set to all product types the asset type axis is set to all assets and the time dimension is set to show metric data describing the previous month. Although four dimensions are shown in it will be appreciated that fewer or more dimensions may be desirable. For example additional dimensions for metric data describing a retail brokerage firm may include a client dimension a geographic dimension an assets under management dimension etc.

According to various embodiments the business metric portal may be configured to allow a user to independently navigate between portal pages representing business topics e.g. topical navigation and between business contexts e.g. contextual navigation . To allow navigation between portal pages each page may include navigation features e.g. links tabs buttons etc. allowing a user to choose a desired page. For example the portal page includes navigation tabs . Selecting one of the tabs may cause the business metric portal to display a new page which may be at the same level or a different level of the hierarchy as the previously displayed page. In various embodiments each classification of the tabs may correspond to a different level of the hierarchy . For example the tab may cause the business metric portal to display a root level of the hierarchy while tabs and may similarly correspond to other hierarchy levels.

In addition to navigating between portal pages the business metric portal may allow the user to navigate between business contexts. Navigating between business contexts may occur independently of navigation between portal pages or topics. For example changing a business context may change the metric data displayed within a given portal page but may not otherwise change the page organization page layout and presentation of metric data. Each different business context however may yield metric data having different values on the various axes .

In various embodiments a user of the business metric portal may access metric data of a different dimension in any suitable manner. For example the user may perform a local context preview or exploration which may cause the interface to display a subset of metric data from a new context in addition to data from a current context. Also for example the user may perform a global context change. This may cause all of the datasets of the various regions and portal pages within the interface to be replaced with new datasets according to the new business context. This may change most or all of the metric data displayed by the various portal pages.

Global context navigation may be facilitated according to any suitable mechanism. For example referring to the portal page may allow a user to navigate to a new global business context utilizing any one of a breadcrumb path a drop down menu and or any of the charts and grids shown at regions . For example the user may select a new value or range of values for the organizational structure axis from the drop down menu . Other embodiments may include various other drop down menus not shown corresponding to various other context axes. Also the user may select an indication of a more specific value of a metric dimension from one of the regions to drill to that value. For example the user may select an organizational unit from any of the regions an asset type from region a sales metric from region etc. Also a global context change may be initiated from the region of a portal page where metrics from different business contexts have already been previewed. The user may select a representation of a previewed metric shown in a portal page to bring about a global context change to the context of the selected metric.

Like a global context navigation or change a local context preview may also be facilitated according to any suitable mechanism. For example the portal page shown in illustrates a region showing a grid of asset type by account or product type. In the page is shown at a most general on the organization structure axis e.g. national sales . A user may preview metric data values for more specific organizational units on the organizational structure axis by selecting one of the asset types from the region e.g. Stocks Options asset type . illustrates the portal page including the local context preview on the organization structure axis . When Stocks Options asset type is selected for a local context preview as shown metric data relating to Stocks Options may be broken down across the set of more specific organization units. For example as shown in metric data relating to the selected Asset type is displayed broken down between the Western Southern Northeast and Central organizational units. This may serve as a preview of the metric data that would be displayed if a global context change to one of these regions was performed. From this preview the user may select one of the displayed organizational units to perform a global context change as illustrated by . illustrates the portal page after a global context change along the organizational structure axis . For example in the page is shown with metric data values according to a context relating to a Southern organizational unit of the firm. This is reflected by the breadcrumb path shown in . It will be appreciated that the global context change resulting in the page as shown in may be performed from the page as shown in as well as from the page as shown in .

The enterprise data staging unit may comprise one or more databases and an enterprise data model . The database may be any suitable kind of database for storing metric data received from the source systems and flat files e.g. a relational database . The enterprise data model may be a software component providing a schema for organizing the metric data. According to various embodiments the enterprise data staging unit may receive all or a large portion of the metric data necessary to implement the business metric portal.

A dashboard cache unit may be utilized to prepare and cache metric data elements that are within the scope of the business metric portal e.g. some or all of the metric data elements that are permitted to appear in the active version of the business metric portal . The dashboard cache unit may comprise a storage unit which may be a SQL server and a dashboard source map . The storage unit may be utilized to store data for the business metric portal. The source map may be a map of the various metrics described in human understandable terms. For example the source map may allow a user to build new reports and charts at run time as described hereinbelow. Data may be loaded from the enterprise data staging unit to the dashboard cache unit utilizing any suitable tool including for example a DATA TRANSFORMATION SERVICES tool available from MICROSOFT. To prepare the data the dashboard cache unit may optimize the data for rendition. For example specific data elements required by one or more visual elements of the interface may be aggregated.

The business metric portal front end may comprise front end tools for retrieving rendering and providing metric data to the user. According to various embodiments the business metric portal front end may be executed by a local machine of the user which may be for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a palmtop computer a mobile phone or any other suitable type of computing device. The front end may include a dashboard sitemap which may define the hierarchy of pages. Portlet templates such as the portlet template shown may define the type and presentation of metric data within a region or portlet. Dataset may be transferred from the cache unit to the front end utilizing a Web Service e.g. Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Representational State Transfer REST etc. or any other suitable protocol. According to various embodiments the datasets for each page region may be cached at the user s machine and may include the set of metric data related to a selected metric data context. A common collection of datasets may be utilized to render multiple pages within a the same context. When the user selects a new global business context the front end may query the dashboard cache for new datasets related to the new context.

When a new portal page is selected metric data included in the dataset may be rendered to generate the different portlets or regions making up the displayed portal page. Various protocols and or software tools may be used to render a region or regions making up a page for display. For example sitemaps portlet templates and data may be expressed in Extensible Markup Language XML JAVASCRIPT Object Notation JSON or any other suitable format. The front end may utilize any suitable rendering and or display technology to utilize the sitemap portlet templates and data to render a portal page . For example any sort of renderer including for example an Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations XSLT renderer JAVASCRIPT driven renderer or other suitable renderer may be utilized to render visual elements of a portal page for example in a Scalable Vector Graphics SVG Extensible Application Markup Language XAML FLASH Hypertext Markup Language HTML or any other suitable format. Also navigation between different portal pages and contexts may be driven utilizing any suitable client side scripting mechanisms and or languages including for example Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML AJAX Dynamic Hypertext Mark Up Language DHTML any FLASH active script etc. According to various embodiments common standards may be utilized to render and facilitate navigation within the business metric portal to achieve multi platform support. Example standards that may be used include XML XSLT SVG JAVA ECMASCRIPT JAVASCRIPT ACTIONSCRIPT C JAVA etc.

The sitemap as described above may define the organization of portal pages. Each page in the sitemap may include a page master which may define one or more page regions making up the corresponding page. According to various embodiments the design time administration module may include multiple distinct sitemaps . Each distinct sitemap may be tailored to a particular type of user machine. For example one sitemap may include pages and regions configured for use with an Internet browser on a Personal Computer PC while other sitemaps may be configured for use with personal digital assistants PDA s mobile phones palmtop computers etc. For example a sitemap configured for use with a mobile phone may include page masters designed to be displayed on smaller screen than those of a sitemap configured for use with an Internet browser.

The controller module may include the run time components that may control navigation to generate the view displayed to the user. Portal may define the view including various regions or portlets and their corresponding datasets . The portal may include a page generator which may in turn comprise page block generators with one generator corresponding to each region or portlet of the page.

When a request is received to display a given portal page according to a given context the portal may determine whether a dataset corresponding to the desired context is cached on the user s machine. If not a query may be made to the model to retrieve a new dataset . When the correct data set is verified the portal may access the page generator corresponding to desired page. The page generator may in turn access the page block generators corresponding to the regions of the desired page. The portal controller may then utilize the renderer to render the page according to the datasets for each of its portlets. The result may be the view displayed to the user. The view may include various portlets corresponding to the different regions of the displayed page. Example portlets may include grids charts and maps as described above with respect to the page as well as third party plug ins such as for example FLASH applications or JAVA applets.

When a user requests a change to a new portal page with no change in context the portal may facilitate the rendering of the new page as described above without the need to query new datasets from the model . When a local business context preview is requested the portal may facilitate a re rendering of the displayed page according to modified page block generators and page regions to reflect the additional dimensional data. The additional data itself may be retrieved from the model with a supplementary query. When a global context change is requested the portal may query the model for a new dataset corresponding to the new context and then re render the displayed portal page according to the same page block generators and page regions . According to various embodiments when a new dataset is requested the portal may compare the cached dataset with the new dataset and query the model only for portions of the new dataset that are not also included in the cached dataset.

According to various embodiments the business metric portal described herein may support various levels of entitlements. For example user entitlements may be defined by portal page. Referring to any given user may be entitled to view pages at a particular level or branch of the hierarchy. For example the firm may desire to limit certain employees access to various metric data types e.g. based on job responsibilities. In addition user entitlements may also be defined by context. The contexts of metric data available to users in any portal page may be limited. For example a manager of a local office in Florida may not be entitled to view metric data relating to another local office in California.

According to various embodiments the interface may be modified by a user at run time or at design time. For example at design time a user may customize the organization of portal pages defined by the site map . For example the user may modify the presentation or spatial layout of any of the page regions . In addition the user may add new pages directed to new topics by defining a new page master and page regions . According to various embodiments the interface may also include a utility not shown allowing a user to make similar modifications to the sitemap and pages at runtime. User entitlement may define the degree to which any particular user is permitted to modify a site map . For example standard users may customize as described above within their topical e.g. portal pages and contextual e.g. business contexts entitlement boundaries. Other users e.g. administrators power users etc. may have greater entitlements allowing them to modify default sitemaps as well the entitlements of other users.

As used herein a computer or computer system may be for example and without limitation either alone or in combination a personal computer PC server based computer main frame server microcomputer minicomputer laptop personal data assistant PDA cellular phone pager processor including wireless and or wireline varieties thereof and or any other computerized device capable of configuration for processing data for standalone application and or over a networked medium or media. Computers and computer systems disclosed herein may include operatively associated memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing storing and or communicating data. It can be appreciated that such memory can be internal external remote or local with respect to its operatively associated computer or computer system. Memory may also include any means for storing software or other instructions including for example and without limitation a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM extended erasable PROM and or other like computer readable media.

While several embodiments of the invention have been described it should be apparent that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. It is therefore intended to cover all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.

