---

title: Collaboration gateway
abstract: Method for exchanging information between heterogeneous secured networks. Method supports synchronous communications across security domains including text chat, instant messaging, audio applications, video applications, and whiteboard collaboration. The invention intercepts incoming information traffic on either side and employs a guard for filtering information traffic between security domains according to a policy engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051475&OS=08051475&RS=08051475
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08051475
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070327
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of provisional application Ser. No. 60 860 237 having been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Nov. 1 2006 and now incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of secure network communications. More specifically the present invention relates to securing communications across heterogeneous information networks.

The U.S. Intelligence Community IC faces an increasingly significant challenge in the timely acquisition correlation and analysis of information. While information technology advances have resulted in the explosive growth in the volume and rate of data made available to the analyst this seemingly limitless supply of raw intelligence threatens to overwhelm the human element of the intelligence processing system. Recent events serve to highlight the need for improved intelligence and collection management particularly concerning Human Intelligence HUMINT . Because of these challenges intelligence analysis is becoming an increasingly distributed collaborative endeavor. It is desirable to have secure information systems that support this collaboration even if dissimilar.

In the intelligence production cycle Communities of Interest COI are formed to collect analyze and disseminate intelligence products. These COI teams are typically multi disciplined with different individuals performing different intelligence jobs and often are geographically distributed. They also often include members from different agencies services and possibly coalition forces. Due to the very nature of the IC these different agencies and services each have their own private secure networks which create barriers to sharing information. In fact these barriers have been cited in the media as a contributing factor as to why it was possible for the 2001 terrorist attacks to occur. Clearly a method is needed to enable the various members of the IC to share necessary information without sacrificing security.

This need is further amplified when considering the United States as a global participant in the fight against terrorism. Obviously the U.S. requires the assistance of international coalition partners in this fight which requires intelligence information sharing across international intelligence agency boundaries. The process of authorizing data to be released to the U.S. coalition partners is slow and cumbersome. There is a paramount need for at least a semi automated process to facilitate a quicker authorized dissemination of intelligence data from both international allied and domestic intelligence agencies.

To address the need of exchanging information between heterogeneous security networks various prior art certified guarding methods have been considered. Most of the prior art but not all of it however only supports email file transfer capabilities and or highly structured messaging for Common Operational Picture COP data. This is insufficient to satisfy the needs to which the present invention is addressed.

This limited functionality of the prior art is inadequate to address the needs outlined above. What is needed therefore to fulfill the perceived lack in the prior art is the capability to communicate on a real time basis using text chat archive and index these collaborations to facilitate research trend analysis and information discovery and semi automate the process of releasing authorized information to international coalition partners.

The present invention provides cross domain asynchronous communications capabilities of certified guards with a new capability for synchronous communication across security domains to include text chat instant messaging audio video and whiteboard collaboration communications. Embodiments of the present invention provide for cross domain text chat and instant messaging including compatibility with both one to one and group chat. Alternate embodiments of the present invention also include compatibility with cross domain audio video and whiteboard collaborations.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a method to share information between privatized secure networks.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method to secure shared information between privatized secure networks.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide a validation and authentication method to secure shared information between privatized secure networks.

It is yet still a further object of the present invention to provide a method for cross domain asynchronous network communications that supports text chat instant messaging audio video and whiteboard collaboration.

An additional object of the present invention is to overcome a lack in the prior art wherein the security measures of implemented in privatized secure information networks would not support inter network communications with other privatized secure networks.

Briefly stated the present invention achieves these and other objects by providing a method for exchanging information between heterogeneous secure networks. Method supports synchronous communications across security domains including text chat instant messaging audio applications video applications and whiteboard collaboration. The invention intercepts information traffic on either side and employs a guard for filtering information traffic between security domains according to a policy engine.

In the fundamental embodiment of the present invention a software program method for providing secure communications across information networks comprises digitally signing a user generated message forwarding said message to a conference server determining said message type and determining said message destination. If the message is an error message then it is processed in the conference server. However if the message is not an error message then the message is forwarded to a protocol proxy a session validation request is generated and forwarded to a session manager the session I.D. associated with that session is validated and the status of the validation step is returned. A determination is made whether the session I.D. is invalid and if it is then it is processed in the conference server. But if it is not invalid an activity update is sent to a session manager a validate message request is sent to a policy engine the message is again validated and it is again determined whether the message is invalid. If the message is invalid then a error is again returned. But if the message is not invalid it is returned to the protocol proxy then forwarded to the media proxy where it is again determined whether it is invalid. If the message is invalid then it is processed in the conference server. For a valid message it is logged and sent to a far side collaborative gateway. Schema and digital signatures are validated. Unauthorized or dirty words are checked for digital signatures are removed from the message and resigned with the guard s private key. The message is forwarded to the far side media proxy where it is logged sent to the protocol proxy then forwarded to the conference server. Message type and destination are determined whereupon it is forwarded to the user.

Still according to the fundamental embodiment of the present invention a software program method for providing secure communications across information networks validating a message further comprises determining whether the chatroom is a far side room and if it is then determining whether a sender is allowed to communicate with an intended recipient. If the sender is allowed then determining whether the chatroom is a near side room. If the chatroom is a near side room then determining whether the sender is a member of that chatroom and if he is then determining whether the classification marking of said message is allowed. If the classification marking is allowed then determining whether said digital signature is valid and if it is valid then returning the message to the protocol proxy. For messages that are not valid rejecting them as non authorized and generating an error message.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The present invention provides a new capability to the cross domain asynchronous communications capabilities of certified guards by providing synchronous communication across security domains including text chat instant messaging audio video and whiteboard collaborations. Present embodiments of the invention provide for cross domain text chat and instant messaging though both one to one and group chat is supported. The invention is readily adaptable to alternate embodiments which provide cross domain audio video and whiteboard collaborations.

Referring to the present invention which can be functionally termed a collaboration gateway or CG is depicted in a secure network. The present invention is utilized in pairs with one such present invention being located on a high side network and one such present invention being located on a low side network. The pair of present inventions is responsible for intercepting and forwarding text chat and instant messaging traffic between high side clients low side clients on each of their respective sides. The present invention runs applications that support XML protocols chat tools and Public Key Infrastructure PKI . The present invention communicates with a certified guard using Secure Socket Layer SSL . The guard application provides socket based communications and supports any real time application such as text chat instant messaging shared whiteboard and others.

Referring to a sequence diagram that illustrates the data flow and respective timelines enumerated as 1 through 12 within the present invention as interposed between the client and the Guard . At first the high side user client authenticates him herself to the conference server by providing his her user certificate. In the present embodiment of the invention conference server implements the MITRE developed Simple Instant Messaging Presence SIMP protocol. When the user enters a message designated for a cross domain user identified by the username conference server will forward it to the high side CG server of the present invention which acts as a proxy for the recipient s . This message is encrypted at the client s machine.

Still referring to a timeline of only the high side is depicted. After verifying the high side sender s permissions to chat between the domains present invention on the high side will forward the encrypted message to the guard . The data flow is then reversed and delivered to the low side client recipient s see on the other side of the guard . An embodiment of the present invention has been prototyped and demonstrated using the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF standard eXtensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP to facilitate transport between domains. The advantage of using XMPP in the present invention is two fold 

These objectives of the present invention are critical in meeting the requirements for the operational users in the field. First by using a common set of security filters less development time is necessary to support new tools and it will be easier for the required NSA certification process. Secondly it is highly unlikely that there will ever exist a universal collaboration tool that everybody uses. Therefore it is necessary that the present invention provide interoperability between a plurality of tools. This is best achieved by employing a standard protocol in the present invention that each tool s message stream can be transcoded to and from.

Referring to a flow diagram depicting the process steps performed by each component of the present invention a high side user client see digitally signs a message and sends it to the conference server. At the conference server the message is received from the chat client and the message type and the message destination are then determined . Message destination is determined by instant message IM address. If the address is cross domain the message the session I.D. and the classification marking of the message are forwarded to the invention s protocol proxy. A determination is made as to whether the message received from the chat client is an error message. If it is determined that the message is an error message such as would be the case when the process operates incorrectly the protocol proxy sends the error message to the conference server where the message type and the message destination are determined and the error message is sent to the near user chat client see to inform him or her that the message was not delivered. If it is determined that the message is not an error message the high side protocol proxy receives the message and sends the message and a session validation request to the high side session manager. At the session manager an attempt is made to validate the session I.D. of the received message. If validated a successful status is returned . If it is determined that the session I.D. SID is not valid the high side session manager sends the message to the conference server where the message type and the message destination are determined and the message is sent to the near user chat client see . In the process of validating the present invention caches chatroom and user information including caching user addresses user public keys chatroom levels chatroom membership and cross domain chatroom addresses. Otherwise a message with a validated session I.D. is forwarded to the collaboration gateway protocol proxy where the activity time update message is generated and sent to the session manager and a message validation request is sent to the policy engine . Referring to the present invention a collaboration gateway upon receipt of the message validation request from the protocol proxy the policy engine validates the message using the policy information that was loaded into the invention during system initialization. If it is determined that the message is valid the policy engine further returns the message to the protocol proxy. If available any digital fingerprint contained in the message is also checked. If it is determined that the message is not valid the policy engine returns an error and the message is sent to the conference server where the message type and the message destination are determined and the message is sent to the near user chatroom client see . For a validated message the protocol proxy will then forward the validated message to the media proxy where it is logged and sent to the far side collaboration gateway via the Guard API. The step of logging comprises copying the message to a log file including the to and from username fields the timestamp and the text of the message. The guard receives the message and validates the schema and digital signature. Schema describes the structure content and the semantics of chat messages. The guard further checks the message for dirty words and removes the digital signature and resigns the message with the guard s private key. Dirty words include a list of words that are classified and therefore may not be released from a higher security domain to a lower security domain. Lastly the guard forwards the message to the far side media proxy. The far side media proxy once in receipt of the message logs it and sends the message to the protocol proxy.

Referring to the present invention a collaboration gateway once the protocol proxy receives the message from the media proxy it forwards it to the conference server. The conference server receives this message from the protocol proxy as well as receiving messages from the protocol proxy when they are erroneous see when the session I.D. is invalid see and when the message is invalid see . In all of these instances the conference server will determine the type of message that is received and its destination. The chat client then receives 310 the message from the conference server.

