---

title: Methods for decreasing immune response and treating immune conditions
abstract: The present invention relates to compositions and methods for decreasing an immune response in an animal comprising administering to said animal an agent that binds a bioactive lipid and reduces the effective concentration of said bioactive lipid. Also provided are methods for treating diseases or conditions, including autoimmune disorders, which are characterized by an aberrant, excessive or undesired immune response. The methods of the invention utilize agents that bind bioactive lipids and are capable of decreasing the effective concentration of the bioactive lipid. In some embodiments, the agent is a monoclonal antibody that is reactive against sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) or lysophosphatidic acid (LPA).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07862812&OS=07862812&RS=07862812
owner: Lpath, Inc.
number: 07862812
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070406
---
This application claims priority to the benefit of and incorporates by reference for all purposes the following patent related documents each in its entirety U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 810 185 filed 31 May 2006 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 835 569 filed 12 Aug. 2006 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 588 973 filed 27 Oct. 2006 of which this application is a continuation in part.

The present invention relates to methods of decreasing an immune response using agents that bind bioactive lipid molecules and thus decrease the effective concentration of these bioactive lipid molecules. These bioactive lipids play a role in human and or animal disease as signaling molecules. One class of bioactive signaling lipids considered in accordance with the invention is the lysolipids. Examples of signaling lysolipids are sphingosine 1 phosphate S1P and the various lysophosphatidic acids LPAs . Antibodies and other agents that bind signaling lipids and derivatives and variants thereof thereby decreasing the effective concentration of these lipids can be used to decrease an immune response and in the treatment and or prevention of diseases and conditions characterized by an excessive aberrant or undesired immune response through the delivery of pharmaceutical compositions that contain such antibodies alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents and or treatments. Autoimmune disorders allograft rejection and graft versus host disease are examples of diseases and conditions which may be treated according to the methods of the present invention. Disorders characterized by inappropriate or aberrant lymphocyte infiltration are also considered to be diseases characterized by an excessive aberrant or undesired immune response and therefore may be treated according to the methods of the present invention.

The following description includes information that may be useful in understanding the present invention. It is not an admission that any such information is prior art or relevant to the presently claimed inventions or that any publication specifically or implicitly referenced is prior art or even particularly relevant to the presently claimed invention.

The present invention relates to methods of decreasing or attenuating aberrant excessive or undesired immune responses including autoimmune responses. These processes separately or together are involved in many diseases and conditions. These diseases or conditions may be systemic or may be relatively localized for example to the red blood cells blood vessels connective tissues nervous system major organs endocrine glands such as the thyroid or pancreas muscles joints or skin.

The immune system protects the body from potentially harmful substances such as microorganisms toxins cancer cells and foreign blood or cells from another person or species. These antigens are destroyed by the immune response which includes production of antibodies and sensitized lymphocytes which are specialized white blood cells that recognize and destroy particular antigens.

Autoimmune disorders develop when the immune system destroys normal body tissues which it normally would ignore. Normally the immune system is capable of differentiating self from non self tissue. Some lymphocytes become sensitized against self tissue cells but this response is usually controlled or suppressed by other lymphocytes. Autoimmune disorders occur when the normal control process is disrupted. Normally most T cells that recognize self antigens are eliminated in the thymus their site of origin and never enter general circulation. The normal T cells circulate through the lymph nodes and the blood without ever responding to self antigens. However it is believed that patients with autoimmune disorders bear T cells that can become activated by self antigens. Once activated the T cell divides to produce many effector cells which attack the activating antigen. When the antigen is a self antigen rather than a foreign antigen serious and potentially deadly consequences result. Autoimmune responses may also occur if normal body tissue is altered so that it is no longer recognized as self.

Autoimmune disorders may result in destruction of one or more types of body tissues abnormal growth of an organ or changes in organ function. The disorder may affect only one organ or tissue type or may affect multiple organs and tissues depending on the identity of the activating antigen. Organs and tissues commonly affected by autoimmune disorders include blood components such as red blood cells blood vessels connective tissues nervous system major organs endocrine glands such as the thyroid or pancreas muscles joints and skin. A person may experience multiple autoimmune disorders at the same time.

Some nonlimiting examples of confirmed or suspected autoimmune diseases and conditions include Type 1 diabetes mellitus psoriasis autoimmune glomerulonephritis autoimmune hemolytic anemia acute disseminated encephalomyelitis Addison s disease alopecia universalis ankylosing spondylitis antiphospholipid antibody syndrome autoimmune oophoritis autoimmune orchitis autoimmune polyendocrine failure Behcet disease Berger s disease Buergers disease bullous pemphigus celiac sprue Chagas disease Graves disease Goodpastures syndrome Guillain Barre syndrome Hashimato s thyroiditis chronic active hepatitis chronic fatigue syndrome chronic progressive hepatitis idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura Jobs syndrome psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis Kawasaki s disease multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis pemphigoid pemphigus pemphigus erythematosus pemphigus foliaceus pemphigus vulgaris polymyalgia rheumatica pulmonary fibrosis Reiters syndrome Reidel s thyroiditis rheumatic fever sarcoidosis Sezary syndrome scleroderma ulcerative colitis autoimmune hemolytic anemia Feltys syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus discoid lupus erythematosus autoimmune polyarteritis nodosa Caplans syndrome Crohn s disease dysautonomia endometriosis hydraadenitis suppurativa interstitial cystitis Lyme disease postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome psoriasis Sjogren s syndrome CREST syndrome viral myocarditis Wegener s granulomatosis and Wiscott Aldrich syndrome. Some of these disorders have been confirmed to be autoimmune disorders by the presence of autoantibodies.

Methods of the present invention are also believed to be useful in treating conditions or diseases other than autoimmune conditions in which it is desirable to decrease or attenuate the immune response. Such conditions may be characterized by an immune response which is excessive aberrant or undesired. Non limiting examples include allograft rejection and graft versus host disease. Allografting is transplantation of an organ or tissue e.g. kidney heart lung cornea skin bone marrow pancreas or other tissues or organs into a genetically non identical member of the same species. Thus most human organ and tissue transplants are allografts with the majority of the remainder being transplants from an identical twin . Allograft rejection occurs when the transplant recipient s immune system recognizes the allograft as foreign and begins to destroy it. This may eventually destroy the transplanted organ and may result in the need for a second transplant. Thus while not necessarily unexpected allograft rejection is an example of an immune response that is undesired.

Graft versus host disease GVHD is a complication of bone marrow transplantation and stem cell transplant. Following a bone marrow or stem cell allograft the transplanted donor cells e.g. T cells may attack the patient s the host s body. GVHD may be chronic or acute and may be life threatening if uncontrolled. Thus GVHD is an example of an undesired and or aberrant immune response.

Lymphocyte infiltration occurs in many diseases and conditions including cancers vascular injury spinal cord injury allergy and asthma. Schottenfeld and Beebe Dimmer 2006 CA 56 69. Zhu et al. 2002 Arteriosclerosis Thrombosis Vasc Biol. 22 450 2002 Jones et al. 2002 J. Neurosci. 22 2690 Gaga et al. 1991 J Immunol. 147 816 22 Boushey H A and J V Fahy 1995 Environ Health Perspect. 103 Suppl 6 229 233. Disorders characterized by inappropriate or aberrant lymphocyte infiltration are also considered to be diseases characterized by an excessive aberrant or undesired immune response and therefore may be treated according to the methods of the present invention.

In certain hematological cancers such as multiple myeloma a malignancy of B cells and plasma cells treatment often involves both anti cancer e.g. cytotoxic agents and immunosuppressants such as dexamethasone to reduce the aberrant immune response i.e. B cell proliferation . A monoclonal antibody that binds S1P with high affinity and specificity has been shown to slow tumor progression and associated angiogenesis in several animal models of human cancer. Visentin et al. 2006 Cancer Cell 9 225 238. The applicants believe that the anti S1P antibody could be effective as an anti cancer agent by virtue not only of its anti tumorigenic activity but also because it may be immunosuppressant. It is believed to be particularly useful for treatment of multiple myeloma and other hematological malignancies characterized by an aberrant or unwanted involvement infiltration or proliferation of lymphocytes and their products.

Lipids and their derivatives are now recognized as important targets for medical research not as just simple structural elements in cell membranes or as a source of energy for oxidation glycolysis or other metabolic processes. In particular certain bioactive lipids function as signaling mediators important in animal and human disease. Although most of the lipids of the plasma membrane play an exclusively structural role a small proportion of them are involved in relaying extracellular stimuli into cells. These lipids are referred to as bioactive lipids or alternatively bioactive signaling lipids. Lipid signaling refers to any of a number of cellular signal transduction pathways that use cell membrane lipids as second messengers as well as referring to direct interaction of a lipid signaling molecule with its own specific receptor. Lipid signaling pathways are activated by a variety of extracellular stimuli ranging from growth factors to inflammatory cytokines and regulate cell fate decisions such as apoptosis differentiation and proliferation. Research into bioactive lipid signaling is an area of intense scientific investigation as more and more bioactive lipids are identified and their actions characterized.

Examples of bioactive lipids include the eicosanoids including the cannabinoids leukotrienes prostaglandins lipoxins epoxyeicosatrienoic acids and isoeicosanoids non eicosanoid cannabinoid mediators phospholipids and their derivatives such as phosphatidic acid PA and phosphatidylglycerol PG platelet activating factor PAF and cardiolipins as well as lysophospholipids such as lysophosphatidyl choline LPC and various lysophosphatidic acids LPA . Bioactive signaling lipids also include the sphingolipids such as sphingomyelin ceramide ceramide 1 phosphate sphingosine sphingosylphosphoryl choline sphinganine sphinganine 1 phosphate Dihydro S1P and sphingosine 1 phosphate. Sphingolipids and their derivatives represent a group of extracellular and intracellular signaling molecules with pleiotropic effects on important cellular processes. Other examples of bioactive signaling lipids include phosphatidylserine PS phosphatidylinositol PI phosphatidylethanolamine PEA diacylglyceride DG sulfatides gangliosides and cerebrosides.

Lysophospholipids LPLs also known as lysolipids are low molecular weight typically less than about 500 dalton lipids that contain a single hydrocarbon backbone and a polar head group containing a phosphate group. Some lysolipids are bioactive signaling lipids. Two particular examples of medically important bioactive lysolipids are LPA glycerol backbone and S1P sphingoid backbone . The structures of selected LPAs S1P and dihydro S1P are presented below.

LPA is not a single molecular entity but a collection of endogenous structural variants with fatty acids of varied lengths and degrees of saturation. Fujiwara et al. 2005 J Biol Chem 280 35038 35050. The structural backbone of the LPAs is derived from glycerol based phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine PC or phosphatidic acid PA . In the case of lysosphingolipids such as S1P the fatty acid of the ceramide backbone is missing. The structural backbone of S1P dihydro S1P DHS1P and sphingosylphosphorylcholine SPC is based on sphingosine which is derived from sphingomyelin.

LPA and S1P regulate various cellular signaling pathways by binding to the same class of multiple transmembrane domain G protein coupled GPCR receptors. Chun J Rosen H 2006 Current Pharm Des 12 161 171 and Moolenaar W H 1999 Experimental Cell Research 253 230 238. The S1P receptors are designated as S1P1 S1P2 S1P3 S1P4 and S1P5 formerly EDG 1 EDG 5 AGR16 EDG 3 EDG 6 and EDG 8 and the LPA receptors designated as LPA1 LPA2 LPA3 formerly EDG 2 EDG 4 and EDG 7 . A fourth LPA receptor of this family has been identified for LPA LPA4 and other putative receptors for these lysophospholipids have also been reported.

LPA and S1P have been shown to play a role in the immune response through modulation of immune related cells such as T and B lymphocytes. These lipids promote T cell migration to sites of immune response and regulate proliferation of T cells as well as secretion of various cytokines. Chun J and Rosen H 2006 Curr Pharm Des. 12 161 171 Huang et al. 2002 Biophys Biochim Acta 1582 161 167 Rosen H and E J Goetzl 2005 Nat Rev Immunol 2005 5 560 70. In particular S1P is thought to control egress of lymphocytes into the peripheral circulation. Thus agents which bind LPA and S1P are believed to be useful in methods for decreasing an undesired excessive or aberrant immune response and for treating diseases and conditions including certain hematological cancers and autoimmune disorders that are associated with an undesired excessive or aberrant involvement of lymphocytes and or an aberrant immune response.

S1P is a mediator of cell proliferation and protects from apoptosis through the activation of survival pathways. Maceyka et al. 2002 Biochim Biophys Acta 1585 192 201 Spiegel S. et al. 2003 Nat Revs Molec Cell Biol 4 397 407. It has been proposed that the balance between ceramide sphingosine CER SPH levels and S1P provides a rheostat mechanism that decides whether a cell is directed into the death pathway or is protected from apoptosis. The key regulatory enzyme of the rheostat mechanism is sphingosine kinase SPHK whose role is to convert the death promoting bioactive signaling lipids CER SPH into the growth promoting S1P. S1P has two fates S1P can be degraded by S1P lyase an enzyme that cleaves S1P to phosphoethanolamine and hexadecanal or less common hydrolyzed by S1P phosphatase to SPH.

S1P is abundantly generated and stored in platelets which contain high levels of SPHK and lacks the enzymes for S1P degradation. When platelets are activated S1P is secreted. In addition other cell types for example mast cells are also believed to be capable of secreting S1P. Once secreted S1P is thought to be bound at high concentrations on carrier proteins such as serum albumin and lipoproteins. S1P is found in high concentrations in plasma with concentrations in the range of 0.5 5 uM having been reported. Though primarily extracellular intracellular actions of S1P have also been suggested see e.g. Spiegel S Kolesnick R 2002 Leukemia 16 1596 602 Suomalainen et al 2005 Am J Pathol 166 773 81 .

Widespread expression of the cell surface S1P receptors allows S1P to influence a diverse spectrum of cellular responses including proliferation adhesion contraction motility morphogenesis differentiation and survival. This spectrum of response appears to depend upon the overlapping or distinct expression patterns of the S1P receptors within the cell and tissue systems. In addition crosstalk between S1P and growth factor signaling pathways including platelet derived growth factor PDGF vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF transforming growth factor beta TGFb and basic fibroblastic growth factor bFGF have recently been demonstrated see e.g. Baudhuin et al. 2004 FASEB J 18 341 3 . Because regulation of various cellular processes involving S1P has particular impact on neuronal signaling vascular tone wound healing immune cell trafficking reproduction and cardiovascular function among others it is believed that alterations of endogenous levels of S1P within these systems can have detrimental effects eliciting several pathophysiologic conditions including cancer heart failure ocular disease and infectious and autoimmune diseases. We propose that a potentially effective strategy for treating autoimmune disorders is to reduce the biologically available extracellular levels of S1P. The applicants have developed a murine monoclonal antibody that is specific for S1P. This represents the first successfully created monoclonal antibody against a bioactive signaling sphingolipid target. The antibody acts as a molecular sponge to selectively absorb S1P from the extracellular fluid lowering the effective concentration of S1P. It selectively binds and neutralizes S1P with picomolar affinity in biologic matrices. Visentin et al. 2006 Cancer Cell 9 225 238. Interestingly S1P is conserved across species unlike most proteinaceous drug targets. Human S1P is identical to murine and monkey S1P for example.

As used herein sphingosine 1 phosphate or S1P refers to sphingosine 1 phosphate sphingene 1 phosphate D erythro sphingosine 1 phosphate sphing 4 enine 1 phosphate E 2S 3R 2 amino 3 hydroxy octadec 4 enoxy phosphonic acid CAS 26993 30 6 and its variants S1P and DHS1P dihydro sphingosine 1 phosphate sphinganine 1 phosphate 2S 3R 2 amino 3 hydroxy octadecoxy phosphonic acid D Erythro dihydro D sphingosine 1 phosphate CAS 19794 97 9 and sphingosylphosphorylcholine. Variants of S1P and LPA as used herein include analogs and derivatives of S1P and LPA respectively which function similarly or might be expected to function similarly to the parent molecule.

Inhibition of S1P signaling yields useful immunosuppression and amelioration of autoimmune disorders 

FTY720 FTY Fingolimod 2 amino 2 2 4 octylphenyl ethyl 1 3 propanediol hydrochloride a small molecule sphingosine analog is a novel immunosuppressive drug that acts by altering lymphocyte trafficking resulting in peripheral blood lymphopenia and increased lymphocyte counts in lymph nodes. FTY mediates its immune modulating effects by binding to some of the S1P receptors expressed on lymphocytes. Bohler T et al. 2005 Transplantation 79 492 5.

It is believed that FTY acts by an interaction with the S1P receptors S1P1 S1P3 S1P4 and S1P5 but not S1P2 . It is believed that initially FTY activates S1P receptors and acts as a S1P agonist. Then FTY causes an abnormal internalization of these receptors inactivating them by removing them from the plasma membrane. Thus while it may act initially as an agonist of S1P receptors its long term effects are of a functional antagonist. Massberg S and U. von Andrian 2006 New Engl. J. Med. 355 1088 1091. The drug is administered orally and a single oral dose reduced peripheral lymphocyte counts by 30 70 . FTY reduced T cell subset CD4 cells more than CD8 cells. Bohler et al. 2004 Nephrol Dial Transplant 19 702 13. FTY treated mice showed a significant prolongation of orthotopic corneal graft survival when administered orally. Zhang et al. 2003 Transplantation 76 1511 3. FTY oral treatment also significantly delayed rejection and decreased its severity in a rat to mouse model of corneal xenotransplantation. Sedlakova et al. 2005 Transplantation 79 297 303. Given the known pathogenesis of allograft rejection combined with these data suggesting that modulating the effects of the S1P signaling can improve graft survival it is believed that agents including antibodies that bind to and thereby decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids will also be useful in treatment of allograft rejection and other conditions characterized by an aberrant undesired or excessive immune response.

S1P1 is involved in lymphocyte trafficking and is required for egress of lymphocytes from the thymus and secondary lymphoid organs spleen lymph nodes and mucosal associated lymphatic tissues such as adenoids tonsils appendix and Peyer s patches which are the sites of initiation of the immune response. Lymphocytes circulate from the blood to the lymph nodes and into the lymph. Egress of lymphocytes back to circulation from the lymph is via the thoracic duct. Lymphocytes also recirculate via the spleen. The S1P1 inhibitor FTY causes rapid lymphopenia reduction of lymphocytes in the blood which is striking 10 100 fold loss in several hours and is accompanied by a reduction of lymphocytes in lymph. An increase in lymphocytes in secondary lymphoid organs and the thymus can be seen. Thus FTY s immune suppressive effects are believed to be due to blockage of S1P1 mediated lymphocyte egress from these organs into the circulation which would deliver the lymphocytes to the site of immune response. For review see Cyster J. 2005 Ann. Rev. Immunol. 23 127 159. This blockage of lymphocyte egress can also be referred to as lymphocyte sequestration and is believed to account for FTY s efficacy in animal models of transplant and autoimmune disorders.

Agents and antibodies that bind to S1P and prevent ligand interaction with its complement of receptors could have a similar effect to FTY but by a different mechanism. Without being limited to a particular theory the applicants believe that agents like anti S1P antibodies could act by preventing S1P binding to its complement of receptors on lymphocytes and other cells involved in lymphocyte trafficking. Silencing the receptors with an anti S1P mAb would have a similar effect to FTY s ability to down regulate receptor presence on the surface membrane of a cell. Further it is believed that by lowering the effective concentration of S1P the anti S1P mAb could act to reduce the S1P gradient between lymphatic tissue and blood. This gradient might be critical for lymphocyte egress and may act in concert with S1P activation of receptors on lymphocyte surfaces.

The marginal zone of the spleen lies between the non lymphoid red pulp and the lymphoid white pulp of the spleen. As a result B lymphocyte cells in the marginal zone are continuously exposed to blood and with it antigens . The factors that direct B cells to the marginal zone are not well understood. Treatment with FTY causes displacement of B cells from the marginal zone to lymphoid follicles leading to the conclusion that S1P1 promotes localization of marginal zone B cells to the splenic marginal zone. Cinamon et al. 2004 Nature Immunol. 5 713 720. Thus in addition to its role in lymphocyte egress S1P signaling also plays a role in lymphoid tissue compartmentalization.

As can be seen in Example 1 hereinbelow the anti S1P mAb developed by Lpath Inc. causes lymphopenia in mice. It can be argued that by acting as a molecular sponge to reduce the effective concentration of S1P the antibody may be depriving the S1P receptors of their ligand and reduce the S1P gradient between lymphoid tissue and the peripheral circulation. In so doing lymphocyte egress from lymphatics and spleen may be retarded or reduced.

Multiple sclerosis MS is an autoimmune disease in which an immune response directed at oligodendrocytes result in focal damage to the myelin sheaths in the central nervous system CNS . This results in severe generally progressive neurological impairment and disability. A small placebo controlled clinical trial of FTY720 has been carried out in patients with the relapsing form of MS. FTY or placebo was given orally once per day for six months and patients who received the FTY showed rapid reduction in disease activity as measured by a significant reduction in relapse rate. A reduction in number of gadolinium enhanced CNS lesions measured by MRI was also demonstrated. In a switching study patients who started on placebo showed improvement when switched to FTY. Kappos et al. 2006 N. Engl. J. Med. 355 1124 1140 and review by Massberg S and von Andrian U. 2006 N. Engl. J. Med. 355 1088 1091.

FTY FTY or FTY P has been shown to attenuate the development of dextran sulfate sodium DSS induced colitis and CD4 CD62L T cell transfer colitis. FTY was effective in preventing body weight loss in both models and the disease activity index and histological colitis score were significantly lower in FTY treated mice than in the non treated mice. In both colitis models FTY prevented the infiltration of CD4 T cells into the inflamed colonic lamina propria and for that reason the authors suggest FTY as a possible clinical treatment for inflammatory bowel disease IBD . Deguchi et al. 2006 Oncol Rep. 16 699 703.

FTY is believed to interfere with S1P signaling by binding to S1P receptors. It is believed that similar effects will be obtained using agents such as Lpath s anti S1P mAb which bind directly to S1P and thereby decrease the effective concentration of S1P. This is also referred to as neutralizing S1P. Examples of such agents are immune derived moieties e.g. antibodies and antibody fragments small molecules aptamers S1P receptor fragments and the like. Thus it is believed that such agents will be effective against autoimmune diseases and other diseases characterized by an aberrant excessive or undesired immune response.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 098 631 Holoshitz et al. discloses methods and compositions for treating and diagnosing autoimmune diseases using compounds that inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis including compounds that are inhibitors of the sphingomyelin signal transduction pathway.

LPAs have long been known as precursors of phospholipid biosynthesis in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells but LPAs have emerged only recently as signaling molecules that are rapidly produced and released by activated cells notably platelets to influence target cells by acting on specific cell surface receptor see e.g. Moolenaar et al. 2004 BioEssays 26 870 881 and van Leewen et al. 2003 Biochem Soc Trans 31 1209 1212 . Besides being synthesized and processed to more complex phospholipids in the endoplasmic reticulum LPA can be generated through the hydrolysis of pre existing phospholipids following cell activation for example the sn 2 position is commonly missing a fatty acid residue due to de acylation leaving only the sn 3 hydroxyl esterified to a fatty acid. Moreover a key enzyme in the production of LPA autotaxin lysoPLD NPP2 may be the product of an oncogene as many tumor types up regulate autotoxin. Brindley 2004 J Cell Biochem 92 900 12. The concentrations of LPA in human plasma and serum have been reported including determinations made using sensitive and specific LC MS procedures Baker et al. 2001 Anal Biochem 292 287 295. For example in freshly prepared human serum allowed to sit at 25 C. for one hour LPA concentrations have been estimated to be approximately 1.2 mM with the LPA analogs 16 0 18 1 18 2 and 20 4 being the predominant species. Similarly in freshly prepared human plasma allowed to sit at 25 C. for one hour LPA concentrations have been estimated to be approximately 0.7 mM with 18 1 and 18 2 LPA being the predominant species.

LPAs influence a wide range of biological responses including induction of cell proliferation stimulation of cell migration and neurite retraction gap junction closure and even slime mold chemotaxis. Goetzl et al. 2002 Scient World J 2 324 338. The body of knowledge about the biology of LPA continues to grow as more and more cellular systems are tested for LPA responsiveness. For example 

Wound healing It is now known that in addition to stimulating cell growth and proliferation LPA promote cellular tension and cell surface fibronectin binding which are important events in wound repair and regeneration. Moolenaar et al. 2004 BioEssays 26 870 881.

Apoptosis Recently anti apoptotic activity has also been ascribed to LPA and it has recently been reported that peroxisome proliferation receptor gamma is a receptor target for LPA. Simon et al. 2005 J Biol Chem 280 14656 14662.

Blood vessel maturation Autotaxin a secreted lysophospholipase D responsible for producing LPAs is essential for blood vessel formation during development. van Meeteren et al. 2006 Mol Cell Biol 26 5015 22. In addition unsaturated LPAs were identified as major contributors to the induction of vascular smooth muscle cell dedifferentiation. Hayashi et al. 2001 Circ Res 89 251 8.

Edema and vascular permeability LPA induces plasma exudation and histamine release in mice. Hashimoto et al. 2006 J Pharmacol Sci 100 82 7.

Inflammation LPA acts as inflammatory mediator in human corneal epithelial cells. Zhang et al 2006 Am J Physiol June 7. LPA participates in corneal wound healing Liliom K et al 1998 Am. J. Physiol 274 C1065 C1074 and stimulates the release of ROS in lens tissue Rao et al. 2004 Molecular Visions 10 112 121 . LPA can also re activate HSV 1 in rabbit cornea. Martin et al. 1999 Molec Vis 5 36 42.

Fibrosis and scar formation LPA inhibits TGF mediated stimulation of type I collagen mRNA stability via an ERK dependent pathway in dermal fibroblasts. Sato et al. 2004 Matrix Biol 23 353 61. Moreover LPA have some direct fibrogenic effects by stimulating collagen gene expression and proliferation of fibroblasts. Chen et al. 2006 FEBS Lett. 580 4737 45.

Immune response LPA like S1P has been shown to play a role in the immune response through modulation of immune related cells. These lipids promote T cell migration to sites of immune response and regulate proliferation of T cells as well as secretion of various cytokines. Chun J and Rosen H 2006 Curr. Pharm Des. 12 161 171 Huang et al. 2002 Biophys. Biochim. Acta 1582 161 167 Rosen H and E J Goetzl 2005 Nat Rev Immunol. 2005 5 560 70. Thus agents that reduce the effective concentration of LPA such as Lpath s anti LPA mAb are believed to be useful in methods for decreasing an undesired excessive or aberrant immune response and for treating diseases and conditions including autoimmune disorders that are associated with an undesired excessive or aberrant immune response.

Recently the applicants have developed several monoclonal antibodies against LPAs. Like the anti S1P antibody the anti LPA antibodies can neutralize various LPAs and mitigate their biologic and pharmacologic action. Anti LPA antibodies are therefore believed to be useful in prevention and or treatment of immune related diseases and conditions.

Before describing the instant invention in detail several terms used in the context of the present invention will be defined. In addition to these terms others are defined elsewhere in the specification as necessary. Unless otherwise expressly defined herein terms of art used in this specification will have their art recognized meanings.

An immune derived moiety refers to any polyclonal or monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment variant or derivative.

An anti S1P antibody or an immune derived moiety reactive against S1P refers to any antibody or antibody derived molecule that binds S1P.

An anti LPA antibody or an immune derived moiety reactive against LPA refers to any antibody or antibody derived molecule that binds to all or one or more of the LPAs.

A bioactive lipid refers to a lipid signaling molecule. In general a bioactive lipid does not reside in a biological membrane when it exerts its signaling effects which is to say that while such a lipid species may exist at some point in a biological membrane for example a cell membrane a membrane of a cell organelle etc. when associated with a biological membrane it is not a bioactive lipid but is instead a structural lipid molecule. Bioactive lipids are distinguished from structural lipids e.g. membrane bound phospholipids in that they mediate extracellular and or intracellular signaling and thus are involved in controlling the function of many types of cells by modulating differentiation migration proliferation secretion survival and other processes. In vivo bioactive lipids can be found in extracellular fluids where they can be complexed with other molecules for example serum proteins such as albumin and lipoproteins or in free form i.e. not complexed with another molecule species. As extracellular mediators some bioactive lipids alter cell signaling by activating membrane bound ion channels or G protein coupled receptors that in turn activate complex signaling systems that result in changes in cell function or survival. As intracellular mediators bioactive lipids can exert their actions by directly interacting with intracellular components such as enzymes and ion channels. Representative examples of bioactive lipids include LPA and S1P.

The term therapeutic agent means an agent for modulating immune responses particularly undesired excessive or aberrant immune responses including autoimmune responses.

The term combination therapy refers to a therapeutic regimen that involves the provision of at least two distinct therapies to achieve an indicated therapeutic effect. For example a combination therapy may involve the administration of two or more chemically distinct active ingredients for example an anti LPA antibody and an anti S1P antibody. Alternatively a combination therapy may involve the administration of an immune derived moiety reactive against a bioactive lipid and the administration of one or more other chemotherapeutic agents. Combination therapy may alternatively involve administration of an anti lipid antibody together with the delivery of another treatment such as radiation therapy and or surgery. Further a combination therapy may involve administration of an anti lipid antibody together with one or more other biological agents e.g. anti VEGF TGF PDGF or bFGF agent chemotherapeutic agents and another treatment such as radiation and or surgery. In the context of combination therapy using two or more chemically distinct active ingredients it is understood that the active ingredients may be administered as part of the same composition or as different compositions. When administered as separate compositions the compositions comprising the different active ingredients may be administered at the same or different times by the same or different routes using the same of different dosing regimens all as the particular context requires and as determined by the attending physician. Similarly when one or more anti lipid antibody species for example an anti LPA antibody alone or in conjunction with one or more chemotherapeutic agents are combined with for example radiation and or surgery the drug s may be delivered before or after surgery or radiation treatment.

 Monotherapy refers to a treatment regimen based on the delivery of one therapeutically effective compound whether administered as a single dose or several doses over time.

A patentable composition process machine or article of manufacture according to the invention means that the subject matter satisfies all statutory requirements for patentability at the time the analysis is performed. For example with regard to novelty non obviousness or the like if later investigation reveals that one or more claims encompass one or more embodiments that would negate novelty non obviousness etc. the claim s being limited by definition to patentable embodiments specifically exclude the unpatentable embodiment s . Also the claims appended hereto are to be interpreted both to provide the broadest reasonable scope as well as to preserve their validity. Furthermore the claims are to be interpreted in a way that 1 preserves their validity and 2 provides the broadest reasonable interpretation under the circumstances if one or more of the statutory requirements for patentability are amended or if the standards change for assessing whether a particular statutory requirement for patentability is satisfied from the time this application is filed or issues as a patent to a time the validity of one or more of the appended claims is questioned.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the agents and compounds of this invention and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. In many cases the agents and compounds of this invention are capable of forming acid and or base salts by virtue of the presence of charged groups for example charged amino and or carboxyl groups or groups similar thereto. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts may be prepared from inorganic and organic acids while pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts can be prepared from inorganic and organic bases. For a review of pharmaceutically acceptable salts see Berge et al. 1977 J. Pharm. Sci. 66 1 19.

The terms separated purified isolated and the like mean that one or more components of a sample contained in a sample holding vessel are or have been physically removed from or diluted in the presence of one or more other sample components present in the vessel. Sample components that may be removed or diluted during a separating or purifying step include chemical reaction products unreacted chemicals proteins carbohydrates lipids and unbound molecules.

The term species is used herein in various contexts e.g. a particular species of chemotherapeutic agent. In each context the term refers to a population of molecules chemically indistinguishable from each other of the sort referred in the particular context.

 Specifically associate and specific association and the like refer to a specific non random interaction between two molecules which interaction depends on the presence of structural hydrophobic hydrophilic and or electrostatic features that allow appropriate chemical or molecular interactions between the molecules.

Herein stable refers to an interaction between two molecules e.g. binding of an anti LPA or anti S1P antibody to its target bioactive lipid that is sufficiently strong such that the interaction of the molecules can be maintained for the desired purpose or manipulation.

A subject or patient refers to an animal in which treatment can be effected by molecules of the invention. The animal may have be at risk for or be believed to have or be at risk for a disease or condition that can be treated by compositions and or methods of the present invention. Animals that can be treated in accordance with the invention include vertebrates with mammals such as bovine canine equine feline ovine porcine and primate including humans and non human primates animals being particularly preferred examples.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount refers to an amount of an active ingredient e.g. an agent according to the invention sufficient to effect treatment when administered to a subject or patient. Accordingly what constitutes a therapeutically effective amount of a composition according to the invention may be readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. In the context of therapy for autoimmune or other immune related disorders a therapeutically effective amount is one that produces an objectively measured change in one or more parameters associated with an immune response. Nonlimiting examples of such parameters include number of circulating T cells or lymphocytes sequestration e.g. accumulation of T cells in the lymphoid organ s and level of lymphocyte activation.

Of course the therapeutically effective amount will vary depending upon the particular subject and condition being treated the weight and age of the subject the severity of the disease condition the particular compound chosen the dosing regimen to be followed timing of administration the manner of administration and the like all of which can readily be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. It will be appreciated that in the context of combination therapy what constitutes a therapeutically effective amount of a particular active ingredient may differ from what constitutes a therapeutically effective amount of the active ingredient when administered as a monotherapy i.e. a therapeutic regimen that employs only one chemical entity as the active ingredient .

The term treatment or treating of a disease or disorder includes preventing or protecting against the disease or disorder that is causing the clinical symptoms not to develop inhibiting the disease or disorder i.e. arresting or suppressing the development of clinical symptoms and or relieving the disease or disorder i.e. causing the regression of clinical symptoms . As will be appreciated it is not always possible to distinguish between preventing and suppressing a disease or disorder since the ultimate inductive event or events may be unknown or latent. Accordingly the term prophylaxis will be understood to constitute a type of treatment that encompasses both preventing and suppressing. The term treatment thus includes prophylaxis.

The term therapeutic regimen means any treatment of a disease or disorder using chemotherapeutic drugs radiation therapy surgery gene therapy DNA vaccines and therapy antisense based therapies including siRNA therapy anti angiogenic therapy immunotherapy bone marrow transplants aptamers and other biologics such as antibodies and antibody variants receptor decoys and other protein based therapeutics.

In accordance with the present invention methods are provided for decreasing an immune response in an animal including a human comprising administering to the animal an agent that binds a bioactive lipid and reduces the effective concentration of the bioactive lipid. The immune response is generally an aberrant excessive or undesired immune response and may be an autoimmune response.

Also provided are methods of treating diseases or conditions characterized by an aberrant excessive or undesired immune response comprising administering an agent that binds a bioactive lipid and reduces the effective concentration of said bioactive lipid. The disease or condition may be an autoimmune disease or condition or an undesired tissue rejection reaction. Disorders characterized by inappropriate or aberrant lymphocyte infiltration are also considered to be diseases characterized by an excessive aberrant or undesired immune response and therefore may be treated according to the methods of the present invention.

In some embodiments of these methods the bioactive lipid may be a sphingolipid or sphingolipid metabolite or a lysolipid or lysolipid metabolite including S1P LPA or a variant thereof. In some embodiments the agent that binds the bioactive lipid is an antibody such as a monoclonal antibody which may be a humanized monoclonal antibody. The agent may be an antibody fragment or another type of agent as described hereinbelow.

These and other aspects and embodiments of the invention are discussed in greater detail in the sections that follow.

One way to control the amount of undesirable bioactive signaling lipids is by providing a composition that binds one or more of these lipids. The present invention describes methods for decreasing an immune response and for treating conditions associated with an aberrant unwanted or excessive immune response. These methods comprise administering an agent that binds to a bioactive signaling lipid and decreases the effective concentration of the bioactive lipid. Antibodies and other compounds that bind to bioactive signaling lipids may be used as therapeutic sponges that reduce the effective level of lipid. When a compound is stated to be free the compound is not in any way restricted from reaching the site or sites where it exerts its undesirable effects. Typically a free compound is present in the cardiovascular system or lymphatics which either is or contains the site s of action of the free compound or from which a compound can freely migrate to its site s of action. A free compound may also be available to be acted upon by any enzyme that converts the compound into an undesirable compound.

Several antibodies have recently been approved for therapeutic use in humans by the Federal Drug Administration. Kling 1999 Mod. Drug Disc. 2 33 45. In one aspect of lipid based therapy antibodies that bind bioactive signaling lipids can be delivered to a patient e.g. incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions medical devices and the like for use in therapy. Such methods may work by e.g. modulating the effective concentration of a target bioactive lipid in tissues or bodily fluids or by removing target lipid from blood in vivo or ex vivo.

The term immune derived moiety which includes antibodies Ab or immunoglobulins Ig refers to any form of a peptide polypeptide derived from modeled after or encoded by an immunoglobulin gene or a fragment of such peptide or polypeptide that is capable of binding an antigen or epitope see eg Immunobiology 5th Edition Janeway Travers Walport Shlomchiked. editors Garland Publishing 2001 . In the present invention the antigen is a bioactive lipid molecule. Antibody molecules or immunoglobulins are large glycoprotein molecules with a molecular weight of approximately 150 kDa usually composed of two different kinds of polypeptide chain. One polypeptide chain termed the heavy chain H is approximately 50 kDa. The other polypeptide termed the light chain L is approximately 25 kDa. Each immunoglobulin molecule usually consists of two heavy chains and two light chains. The two heavy chains are linked to each other by disulfide bonds the number of which varies between the heavy chains of different immunoglobulin isotypes. Each light chain is linked to a heavy chain by one covalent disulfide bond. In any given naturally occurring antibody molecule the two heavy chains and the two light chains are identical harboring two identical antigen binding sites and are thus said to be divalent i.e. having the capacity to bind simultaneously to two identical molecules.

The light chains of antibody molecules from any vertebrate species can be assigned to one of two clearly distinct types kappa and lambda based on the amino acid sequences of their constant domains. The ratio of the two types of light chain varies from species to species. As a way of example the average to ratio is 20 1 in mice whereas in humans it is 2 1 and in cattle it is 1 20.

The heavy chains of antibody molecules from any vertebrate species can be assigned to one of five clearly distinct types called isotypes based on the amino acid sequences of their constant domains. Some isotypes have several subtypes. The five major classes of immunoglobulin are immunoglobulin M IgM immunoglobulin D IgD immunoglobulin G IgG immunoglobulin A IgA and immunoglobulin E IgE . IgG is the most abundant isotype and has several subclasses IgG1 2 3 and 4 in humans . The Fc fragment and hinge regions differ in antibodies of different isotypes thus determining their functional properties. However the overall organization of the domains is similar in all isotypes.

The term variable region refers to the N terminal portion of the antibody molecule or a fragment thereof. In general each of the four chains has a variable V region in its amino terminal portion which contributes to the antigen binding site and a constant C region which determines the isotype. The light chains are bound to the heavy chains by many noncovalent interactions and by disulfide bonds and the V regions of the heavy and light chains pair in each arm of antibody molecule to generate two identical antigen binding sites. Some amino acid residues are believed to form an interface between the light and heavy chain variable domains see Kabat et al. 1991 Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest Fifth Edition National Institute of Health Bethesda Md. and Clothia et al. 1985 J. Mol. Biol vol 186 651 .

Of note variability is not uniformly distributed throughout the variable domains of antibodies but is concentrated in three segments called complementarity determining regions CDRs or hypervariable regions both in the light chain and the heavy chain variable domains. The more highly conserved portions of variable domains are called the framework region FR . The variable domains of native heavy and light chains each comprise four FR regions connected by three CDRs. The CDRs in each chain are held together in close proximity by the FR regions and with the CDRs from the other chains form the antigen binding site of antibodies see Kabat et al. 1991 Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest Fifth Edition National Institute of Health Bethesda Md. . Collectively the 6 CDRs contribute to the binding properties of the antibody molecule for the antigen. However even a single variable domain or half of an Fv comprising only three CDRs specific for an antigen has the ability to recognize and bind antigen see Pluckthun 1994 in The Pharmacology of Monoclonal Antibodies vol. 113 Rosenburg and Moore eds. Springer Verlag New York pp. 269 315 .

The term constant domain refers to the C terminal region of an antibody heavy or light chain. Generally the constant domains are not directly involved in the binding properties of an antibody molecule to an antigen but exhibit various effector functions such as participation of the antibody in antibody dependent cellular toxicity. Here effector functions refer to the different physiological effects of antibodies e.g. opsonization cell lysis mast cell basophil and eosinophil degranulation and other processes mediated by the recruitment of immune cells by the molecular interaction between the Fc domain and proteins of the immune system. The isotype of the heavy chain determines the functional properties of the antibody. Their distinctive functional properties are conferred by the carboxy terminal portions of the heavy chains where they are not associated with light chains.

As used herein antibody fragment refers to a portion of an intact antibody that includes the antigen binding site or variable regions of an intact antibody wherein the portion can be free of the constant heavy chain domains e.g. CH2 CH3 and CH4 of the Fc region of the intact antibody. Alternatively portions of the constant heavy chain domains e.g. CH2 CH3 and CH4 can be included in the antibody fragment. Examples of antibody fragments are those that retain antigen binding and include Fab Fab F ab 2 Fd and Fv fragments diabodies triabodies single chain antibody molecules sc Fv minibodies nanobodies and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments. By way of example a Fab fragment also contains the constant domain of a light chain and the first constant domain CH1 of a heavy chain.

The term variant refers to an amino acid sequence which differs from the native amino acid sequence of an antibody by at least one amino acid residue or modification. A native or parent or wild type amino acid sequence refers to the amino acid sequence of an antibody found in nature. Variants of the antibody molecule include but are not limited to changes within a variable region or a constant region of a light chain and or a heavy chain including the hypervariable or CDR region the Fc region the Fab region the CH1 domain the CH2 domain the CH3 domain and the hinge region.

The term specific refers to the selective binding of an antibody to its target epitope. Antibody molecules can be tested for specificity of binding by comparing binding of the antibody to the desired antigen to binding of the antibody to unrelated antigen or analog antigen or antigen mixture under a given set of conditions. Preferably an antibody according to the invention will lack significant binding to unrelated antigens or even analogs of the target antigen. Here the term antigen refers to a molecule that is recognized and bound by an antibody molecule or immune derived moiety that binds to the antigen. The specific portion of an antigen that is bound by an antibody is termed the epitope . A hapten refers to a small molecule that can under most circumstances elicit an immune response i.e. act as an antigen only when attached to a carrier molecule for example a protein polyethylene glycol PEG colloidal gold silicone beads and the like. The carrier may be one that also does not elicit an immune response by itself.

The term antibody is used in the broadest sense and encompasses monoclonal polyclonal multispecific e.g. bispecific wherein each arm of the antibody is reactive with a different epitope or the same or different antigen minibody heteroconjugate diabody triabody chimeric and synthetic antibodies as well as antibody fragments that specifically bind an antigen with a desired binding property and or biological activity.

The term monoclonal antibody mAb refers to an antibody or population of like antibodies obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example monoclonal antibodies can be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 or by recombinant DNA methods.

The term chimeric antibody or chimeric immunoglobulin refers to a molecule comprising a heavy and or light chain which is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity. Cabilly et al. 1984 infra Morrison et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 81 6851.

The term humanized antibody refers to forms of antibodies that contain sequences from non human eg murine antibodies as well as human antibodies. A humanized antibody can include conservative amino acid substitutions or non natural residues from the same or different species that do not significantly alter its binding and or biologic activity. Such antibodies are chimeric antibodies that contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulins. For the most part humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues from a complementary determining region CDR of the recipient are replaced by residues from a CDR of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat camel bovine goat or rabbit having the desired properties. Furthermore humanized antibodies can comprise residues that are found neither in the recipient antibody nor in the imported CDR or framework sequences. These modifications are made to further refine and maximize antibody performance. Thus in general a humanized antibody will comprise all of at least one and in one aspect two variable domains in which all or all of the hypervariable loops correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FR regions are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc or that of a human immunoglobulin. See e.g. Cabilly et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 Cabilly et al. European Patent No. 0 125 023 B1 Boss et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 397 Boss et al. European Patent No. 0 120 694 B1 Neuberger M. S. et al. WO 86 01533 Neuberger M. S. et al. European Patent No. 0 194 276 B1 Winter U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 Winter European Patent No. 0 239 400 B1 Padlan E. A. et al. European Patent Application No. 0 519 596 A1 Queen et al. 1989 Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA vol 86 10029 10033 .

The term bispecific antibody can refer to an antibody or a monoclonal antibody having binding properties for at least two different epitopes. In one embodiment the epitopes are from the same antigen. In another embodiment the epitopes are from two different antigens. Methods for making bispecific antibodies are known in the art. For example bispecific antibodies can be produced recombinantly using the co expression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pairs. Alternatively bispecific antibodies can be prepared using chemical linkage. Bispecific antibodies include bispecific antibody fragments.

The term heteroconjugate antibody can refer to two covalently joined antibodies. Such antibodies can be prepared using known methods in synthetic protein chemistry including using crosslinking agents. As used herein the term conjugate refers to molecules formed by the covalent attachment of one or more antibody fragment s or binding moieties to one or more polymer molecule s .

The term biologically active refers to an antibody or antibody fragment that is capable of binding the desired epitope and in some way exerting a biologic effect. Biological effects include but are not limited to the modulation of a growth signal the modulation of an anti apoptotic signal the modulation of an apoptotic signal the modulation of the effector function cascade and modulation of other ligand interactions.

The term recombinant DNA refers to nucleic acids and gene products expressed therefrom that have been engineered created or modified by man. Recombinant polypeptides or proteins are polypeptides or proteins produced by recombinant DNA techniques for example from cells transformed by an exogenous DNA construct encoding the desired polypeptide or protein. Synthetic polypeptides or proteins are those prepared by chemical synthesis.

The term expression cassette refers to a nucleotide molecule capable of affecting expression of a structural gene i.e. a protein coding sequence such as an antibody in a host compatible with such sequences. Expression cassettes include at least a promoter operably linked with the polypeptide coding sequence and optionally with other sequences e.g. transcription termination signals. Additional regulatory elements necessary or helpful in effecting expression may also be used e.g. enhancers. Thus expression cassettes include plasmids expression vectors recombinant viruses any form of recombinant naked DNA vector and the like.

Visentin et al. describe a murine monoclonal antibody that binds S1P with extremely high affinity and specificity. This antibody was shown to slow tumor progression and associated angiogenesis in several animal models of human cancer. Cancer Cell 2006 9 225 238.

A humanized monoclonal antibody LT1009 has been derived from the murine anti S1P antibody LT1002 . As compared to the murine anti S1P antibody from which it was derived the humanized form exhibits an S1P binding affinity in the picomolar range as well as superior stability and in vivo efficacy. Construction synthesis purification and testing of this antibody is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 854 971 which is commonly owned with the instant invention and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes. It will be understood that in general a humanized monoclonal antibody is preferable to a murine antibody or other nonhuman derived antibody for administration to a human subject.

A monoclonal antibody against LPA has been developed. Construction synthesis purification and testing of this antibody are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 835 569. which is commonly owned with the instant invention and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The antibodies and antibody fragments of the invention may be produced by any suitable method for example in vivo in the case of polyclonal and monospecific antibodies in cell culture as is typically the case for monoclonal antibodies wherein hybridoma cells expressing the desired antibody are cultured under appropriate conditions in in vitro translation reactions and in recombinant DNA expression systems Johnson et al. Methods Enz. 203 88 98 1991 . Antibodies and antibody variants can be produced from a variety of animal cells preferably from mammalian cells with murine and human cells being particularly preferred. Antibodies that include non naturally occurring antibody and T cell receptor variants that retain only the desired antigen targeting capability conferred by an antigen binding site s of an antibody can be produced by known cell culture techniques and recombinant DNA expression systems see e.g. Johnson et al. Methods in Enzymol. 203 88 98 1991 Molloy et al. Mol. Immunol. 32 73 81 1998 Schodin et al. J. Immunol. Methods 200 69 77 1997 . Recombinant DNA expression systems are typically used in the production of antibody variants such as e.g. bispecific antibodies and sFv molecules. Preferred recombinant DNA expression systems include those that utilize host cells and expression constructs that have been engineered to produce high levels of a particular protein. Preferred host cells and expression constructs include harboring expression constructs derived from plasmids or viruses yeast such as or harboring episomal or chromosomally integrated expression constructs insect cells and viruses such as Sf 9 cells and baculovirus and mammalian cells harboring episomal or chromosomally integrated e.g. retroviral expression constructs for a review see Verma et al. J. Immunol. Methods 216 165 181 1998 . Antibodies can also be produced in plants U.S. Pat. No. 6 046 037 Ma et al. Science 268 716 719 1995 or by phage display technology Winter et al. Annu. Rev. Immunol. 12 433 455 1994 .

XenoMouse strains are genetically engineered mice in which the murine IgH and Igk loci have been functionally replaced by their Ig counterparts on yeast artificial YAC transgenes. These human Ig transgenes can carry the majority of the human variable repertoire and can undergo class switching from IgM to IgG isotypes. The immune system of the XenoMouse recognizes administered human antigens as foreign and produces a strong humoral response. The use of XenoMouse in conjunction with well established hybridoma techniques results in fully human IgG mAbs with sub nanomolar affinities for human antigens. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 770 429 entitled Transgenic non human animals capable of producing heterologous antibodies U.S. Pat. No. 6 162 963 entitled Generation of Xenogenetic antibodies U.S. Pat. No. 6 150 584 entitled Human antibodies derived from immunized XenoMice U.S. Pat. No. 6 114 598 entitled Generation of xenogeneic antibodies and U.S. Pat. No. 6 075 181 entitled Human antibodies derived from immunized Xenomice for reviews see Green 1999 J. Immunol. Methods 231 11 23 Wells Chem Biol 2000 7 R185 6 and Davis et al. 1999 Cancer Metastasis Rev 18 421 5 

Soluble polypeptides derived from membrane bound typically hydrophobic bioactive lipid receptors that retain the receptors ability to bind lipids may also be used to bind bioactive lipids and lipid metabolites. For example In the case of Edg S1P and LPA receptors in some instances particular amino acid residues may be involved in the specificity of sphingolipid binding i.e. the amino acids that determine which sphingolipid is bound by a specific receptor. Parrill et al. 2000 J. Biol. Chem. 275 39379 39384 Wang et al. 2001 J. Biol. Chem. 276 49213 49220. Such information may be used to provide soluble receptor fragments comprising receptor residues of interest i.e. the stretches of amino acids that bind the sphingolipid. Soluble receptor fragments derived from the naturally soluble TNFalpha receptor have been prepared and at least one of these ENBREL Etanercept is in development as a therapeutic agent for arthritis. In addition modification of such residues may permit the skilled artisan to tailor the binding specificities and or affinity of soluble receptor fragments.

Soluble receptor fragments of particular interest include fragments of Edg 1 Edg 3 Edg 5 Edg 6 and Edg 8 all of which bind the undesirable sphingolipid sphingosine 1 phosphate S 1 P . The Edg 1 Edg 3 Edg 5 receptors are of particular interest.

Soluble receptor fragments may be prepared in various ways including but not limited to proteolytic digestion of cells or cellular membrane preparations comprising the receptor Bartfeld et al. 1979 Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 89 512 9 Borhani et al. 1991 J Mol. Biol. 218 685 9 recombinant DNA technologies Marlovits et al. 1998 J Mol Recognit. 11 49 51 Huang et al. 1992 J Mol Endocrinol. 8 137 44 or by in vitro synthesis of oligopeptides.

Other agents that may be used to bind bioactive lipids and lipid metabolites include fragments of ion channels that bear one or more S1P binding sites e.g. TRP channels. Channel fragments that retain the S1P binding site s are useful agents for use in the methods of the instant invention.

Traditionally techniques for detecting and purifying target molecules have used polypeptides such as antibodies that specifically bind such targets. While nucleic acids have long been known to specifically bind other nucleic acids e.g. ones having complementary sequences aptamers i.e. nucleic acids that bind non nucleic target molecules have been disclosed. See e.g. Blackwell et al. Science 1990 250 1104 1110 Blackwell et al. Science 1990 250 1149 1152 Tuerk et al. Science 1990 249 505 510 Joyce 1989 Gene 82 83 87 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 840 867 entitled Aptamer analogs specific for biomolecules .

As applied to aptamers the term binding specifically excludes the Watson Crick type binding interactions i.e. A T and G C base pairing traditionally associated with the DNA double helix. The term aptamer thus refers to a nucleic acid or a nucleic acid derivative that specifically binds to a target molecule wherein the target molecule is either i not a nucleic acid or ii a nucleic acid or structural element thereof that is bound through mechanisms other than duplex or triplex type base pairing. Such a molecule is called a non nucleic molecule herein.

 Nucleic acids as used herein refers to nucleic acids that are isolated from a natural source prepared in vitro using techniques such as PCR amplification or chemical synthesis prepared in vivo e.g. via recombinant DNA technology or by any appropriate method. Nucleic acids may be of any shape linear circular etc. or topology single stranded double stranded supercoiled etc. . The term nucleic acids also includes without limitation nucleic acid derivatives such as peptide nucleic acids PNAs and polypeptide nucleic acid conjugates nucleic acids having at least one chemically modified sugar residue backbone internucleotide linkage base nucleoside or nucleotide analog as well as nucleic acids having chemically modified 5 and or 3 ends and nucleic acids having two or more of such modifications. Not all linkages in a nucleic acid need to be identical.

Nucleic acids that are aptamers are often but need not be prepared as oligonucleotides. Oligonucleotides include without limitation RNA DNA and mixed RNA DNA molecules having sequences of lengths that have minimum lengths of 2 4 6 8 10 11 12 13 14 15 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or 25 nucleotides and maximum lengths of about 100 75 50 40 25 20 or 15 or more nucleotides irrespectively. In general a minimum of 6 nucleotides preferably 10 nucleotides more preferably 14 to 20 nucleotides is necessary to effect specific binding.

In general the oligonucleotides may be single stranded ss or double stranded ds DNA or RNA or conjugates e.g. RNA molecules having 5 and 3 DNA clamps or hybrids e.g. RNA DNA paired molecules or derivatives chemically modified forms thereof . However single stranded DNA is preferred as DNA is often less labile than RNA. Similarly chemical modifications that enhance an aptamer s specificity or stability are preferred.

Chemical modifications that may be incorporated into aptamers and other nucleic acids include with neither limitation nor exclusivity base modifications sugar modifications and backbone modifications.

Base modifications The base residues in aptamers may be other than naturally occurring bases e.g. A G C T U 5MC and the like . Derivatives of purines and pyrimidines are known in the art an exemplary but not exhaustive list includes aziridinylcytosine 4 acetylcytosine 5 fluorouracil 5 bromouracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thiouracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyluracil inosine N6 isopentenyladenine 1 methyladenine 1 methylpseudouracil 1 methylguanine 1 methylinosine 2 2 dimethylguanine 2 methyladenine 2 methylguanine 3 methylcytosine 5 methylcytosine 5MC N6 methyladenine 7 methylguanine 5 methylaminomethyluracil 5 methoxyaminomethyl 2 thiouracil beta D mannosylqueosine 5 methoxyuracil 2 methylthio N 6 isopentenyladenine uracil 5 oxyacetic acid methylester pseudouracil queosine 2 thiocytosine 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 2 thiouracil 4 thiouracil 5 methyluracil uracil 5 oxyacetic acid and 2 6 diaminopurine. In addition to nucleic acids that incorporate one or more of such base derivatives nucleic acids having nucleotide residues that are devoid of a purine or a pyrimidine base may also be included in aptamers.

Sugar modifications The sugar residues in aptamers may be other than conventional ribose and deoxyribose residues. By way of non limiting example substitution at the 2 position of the furanose residue enhances nuclease stability. An exemplary but not exhaustive list of modified sugar residues includes 2 substituted sugars such as 2 O methyl 2 O alkyl 2 O allyl 2 S alkyl 2 S allyl 2 fluoro 2 halo or 2 azido ribose carbocyclic sugar analogs alpha anomeric sugars epimeric sugars such as arabinose xyloses or lyxoses pyranose sugars furanose sugars sedoheptuloses acyclic analogs and abasic nucleoside analogs such as methyl riboside ethyl riboside or propylriboside.

Backbone modifications Chemically modified backbones include by way of non limiting example phosphorothioates chiral phosphorothioates phosphorodithioates phosphotriesters aminoalkylphosphotriesters methyl and other alkyl phosphonates including 3 alkylene phosphonates and chiral phosphonates phosphinates phosphoramidates including 3 amino phosphoramidate and aminoalkylphosphoramidates thionophosphoramidates thionoalkylphosphonates thionoalkylphosphotriesters and boranophosphates having normal 3 5 linkages 2 5 linked analogs of these and those having inverted polarity wherein the adjacent pairs of nucleoside units are linked 3 5 to 5 3 or 2 5 to 5 2 . Chemically modified backbones that do not contain a phosphorus atom have backbones that are formed by short chain alkyl or cycloalkyl internucleoside linkages mixed heteroatom and alkyl or cycloalkyl internucleoside linkages or one or more short chain heteroatomic or heterocyclic internucleoside linkages including without limitation morpholino linkages siloxane backbones sulfide sulfoxide and sulfone backbones formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones methylene formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones alkene containing backbones sulfamate backbones methyleneimino and methylenehydrazino backbones sulfonate and sulfonamide backbones and amide backbones.

In general techniques for identifying aptamers involve incubating a preselected non nucleic target molecule with mixtures 2 to 50 members pools 50 to 5 000 members or libraries 50 or more members of different nucleic acids that are potential aptamers under conditions that allow complexes of target molecules and aptamers to form. By different nucleic acids it is meant that the nucleotide sequence of each potential aptamer may be different from that of any other member that is the sequences of the potential aptamers are random with respect to each other. Randomness can be introduced in a variety of manners such as e.g. mutagenesis which can be carried out in vivo by exposing cells harboring a nucleic acid with mutagenic agents in vitro by chemical treatment of a nucleic acid or in vitro by biochemical replication e.g. PCR that is deliberately allowed to proceed under conditions that reduce fidelity of replication process randomized chemical synthesis i.e. by synthesizing a plurality of nucleic acids having a preselected sequence that with regards to at least one position in the sequence is random. By random at a position in a preselected sequence it is meant that a position in a sequence that is normally synthesized as e.g. as close to 100 A as possible e.g. 5 C T T A G T 3 is allowed to be randomly synthesized at that position 5 C T T N G T 3 wherein N indicates a randomized position where for example the synthesizing reaction contains 25 each of A T C and G or x A w T y C and z G wherein x w y z 100. In later stages of the process the sequences are increasingly less randomized and consensus sequences may appear in any event it is preferred to ultimately obtain an aptamer having a unique nucleotide sequence.

Aptamers and pools of aptamers are prepared identified characterized and or purified by any appropriate technique including those utilizing in vitro synthesis recombinant DNA techniques PCR amplification and the like. After their formation target aptamer complexes are then separated from the uncomplexed members of the nucleic acid mixture and the nucleic acids that can be prepared from the complexes are candidate aptamers at early stages of the technique the aptamers generally being a population of a multiplicity of nucleotide sequences having varying degrees of specificity for the target . The resulting aptamer mixture or pool is then substituted for the starting aptamer library or pool in repeated iterations of this series of steps. When a limited number e.g. a pool or mixture preferably a mixture with less than 10 members most preferably 1 of nucleic acids having satisfactory specificity is obtained the aptamer is sequenced and characterized. Pure preparations of a given aptamer are generated by any appropriate technique e.g. PCR amplification in vitro chemical synthesis and the like .

For example Tuerk and Gold Science 1990 249 505 510 disclose the use of a procedure termed systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment SELEX . In this method pools of nucleic acid molecules that are randomized at specific positions are subjected to selection for binding to a nucleic acid binding protein see e.g. PCT International Publication No. WO 91 19813 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 270 163 . The oligonucleotides so obtained are sequenced and otherwise characterized. Kinzler et al. used a similar technique to identify synthetic double stranded DNA molecules that are specifically bound by DNA binding polypeptides. Nucleic Acids Res. 1989 17 3645 3653. Ellington et al. disclose the production of a large number of random sequence RNA molecules and the selection and identification of those that bind specifically to specific dyes such as Cibacron blue. Nature 1990 346 818 822.

Another technique for identifying nucleic acids that bind non nucleic target molecules is the oligonucleotide combinatorial technique disclosed by Ecker D. J. et al. Nuc. Acids Res. 21 1853 1993 known as synthetic unrandomization of randomized fragments SURF which is based on repetitive synthesis and screening of increasingly simplified sets of oligonucleotide analogue libraries pools and mixtures Tuerk C. and Gold L. Science 249 505 1990 . The starting library consists of oligonucleotide analogues of defined length with one position in each pool containing a known analogue and the remaining positions containing equimolar mixtures of all other analogues. With each round of synthesis and selection the identity of at least one position of the oligomer is determined until the sequences of optimized nucleic acid ligand aptamers are discovered.

Once a particular candidate aptamer has been identified through a SURF SELEX or any other technique its nucleotide sequence can be determined as is known in the art and its three dimensional molecular structure can be examined by nuclear magnetic resonance NMR . These techniques are explained in relation to the determination of the three dimensional structure of a nucleic acid ligand that binds thrombin in Padmanabhan K. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 24 17651 1993 Wang K. Y. et al. Biochemistry 32 1899 1993 and Macaya R. F. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 3745 1993 . Selected aptamers may be resynthesized using one or more modified bases sugars or backbone linkages. Aptamers consist essentially of the minimum sequence of nucleic acid needed to confer binding specificity but may be extended on the 5 end the 3 end or both or may be otherwise derivatized or conjugated.

The term small molecule includes any chemical or other moiety other than polypeptides and nucleic acids that can act to affect biological processes. Small molecules can include any number of therapeutic agents presently known and used or can be small molecules synthesized in a library of such molecules for the purpose of screening for biological function s . Small molecules are distinguished from macromolecules by size. The small molecules of this invention usually have molecular weight less than about 5 000 daltons Da preferably less than about 2 500 Da more preferably less than 1 000 Da most preferably less than about 500 Da.

Small molecules include without limitation organic compounds peptidomimetics and conjugates thereof. As used herein the term organic compound refers to any carbon based compound other than macromolecules such nucleic acids and polypeptides. In addition to carbon organic compounds may contain calcium chlorine fluorine copper hydrogen iron potassium nitrogen oxygen sulfur and other elements. An organic compound may be in an aromatic or aliphatic form. Non limiting examples of organic compounds include acetones alcohols anilines carbohydrates monosaccharides oligosaccharides polysaccharides amino acids nucleosides nucleotides lipids retinoids steroids proteoglycans ketones aldehydes saturated unsaturated and polyunsaturated fats oils and waxes alkenes esters ethers thiols sulfides cyclic compounds heterocyclic compounds imidizoles and phenols. An organic compound as used herein also includes nitrated organic compounds and halogenated e.g. chlorinated organic compounds. Methods for preparing peptidomimetics are described below. Collections of small molecules and small molecules identified according to the invention are characterized by techniques such as accelerator mass spectrometry AMS see Turteltaub et al. 2000 Curr Pharm Des 6 991 1007 and Enjalbal et al. 2000 Mass Spectrom Rev 19 139 61.

Preferred small molecules are relatively easier and less expensively manufactured formulated or otherwise prepared. Preferred small molecules are stable under a variety of storage conditions. Preferred small molecules may be placed in tight association with macromolecules to form molecules that are biologically active and that have improved pharmaceutical properties. Improved pharmaceutical properties include changes in circulation time distribution metabolism modification excretion secretion elimination and stability that are favorable to the desired biological activity. Improved pharmaceutical properties include changes in the toxicological and efficacy characteristics of the chemical entity.

In general a polypeptide mimetic peptidomimetic is a molecule that mimics the biological activity of a polypeptide but that is not peptidic in chemical nature. While in certain embodiments a peptidomimetic is a molecule that contains no peptide bonds that is amide bonds between amino acids the term peptidomimetic may include molecules that are not completely peptidic in character such as pseudo peptides semi peptides and peptoids. Examples of some peptidomimetics by the broader definition e.g. where part of a polypeptide is replaced by a structure lacking peptide bonds are described below. Whether completely or partially non peptide in character peptidomimetics according to this invention may provide a spatial arrangement of reactive chemical moieties that closely resembles the three dimensional arrangement of active groups in a polypeptide. As a result of this similar active site geometry the peptidomimetic may exhibit biological effects that are similar to the biological activity of a polypeptide.

There are several potential advantages for using a mimetic of a given polypeptide rather than the polypeptide itself. For example polypeptides may exhibit two undesirable attributes i.e. poor bioavailability and short duration of action. Peptidomimetics are often small enough to be both orally active and to have a long duration of action. There are also problems associated with stability storage and immunoreactivity for polypeptides that may be obviated with peptidomimetics.

Candidate lead and other polypeptides having a desired biological activity can be used in the development of peptidomimetics with similar biological activities. Techniques of developing peptidomimetics from polypeptides are known. Peptide bonds can be replaced by non peptide bonds that allow the peptidomimetic to adopt a similar structure and therefore biological activity to the original polypeptide. Further modifications can also be made by replacing chemical groups of the amino acids with other chemical groups of similar structure shape or reactivity. The development of peptidomimetics can be aided by determining the tertiary structure of the original polypeptide either free or bound to a ligand by NMR spectroscopy crystallography and or computer aided molecular modeling. These techniques aid in the development of novel compositions of higher potency and or greater bioavailability and or greater stability than the original polypeptide. Dean 1994 BioEssays 16 683 687 Cohen and Shatzmiller 1993 J Mol Graph 11 166 173 Wiley and Rich 1993 Med Res Rev 13 327 384 Moore 1994 Trends Pharmacol Sci 15 124 129 Hruby 1993 Biopolymers 33 1073 1082 Bugg et al. 1993 Sci Am 269 92 98 all incorporated herein by reference.

Specific examples of peptidomimetics are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 169 390 which is commonly assigned with the instant application and incorporated herein in its entirety. These examples are illustrative and not limiting in terms of the other or additional modifications.

Examples of polypeptides and derivatives thereof are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 169 390 which is commonly assigned with the instant application and incorporated herein in its entirety. These examples are illustrative and not limiting in terms of the other or additional modifications.

The invention is drawn to methods for treating or preventing autoimmune diseases and conditions using one or more therapeutic agents that alter the activity or concentration of one or more bioactive lipids or precursors or metabolites thereof. The therapeutic methods and compositions of the invention act by changing the effective concentration i.e. the absolute relative effective and or available concentration and or activities of bioactive lipids. Lowering the effective concentration of a bioactive lipid may be said to neutralize the target lipid or its undesired effects including downstream effects.

Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that bioactive signaling lipids including S1P and or LPA and or their metabolites or downstream effectors may cause or contribute to the development of various diseases and disorders characterized by an aberrant unwanted or excessive immune response. As such the compositions and methods can be used to treat these immune related diseases and disorders particularly by decreasing the effective in vivo concentration of a particular target lipid for example S1P or LPA. In particular it is believed that the compositions and methods of the invention are useful in treating autoimmune diseases which by definition are characterized at least in part by an aberrant excessive or unwanted immune response. Here unwanted refers to an immune response that is undesired due to its involvement in a disease process for example an autoimmune response or to an otherwise normal immune response which contributes to disease when present in excess as in the case of transplant rejection or diseases characterized by inappropriate lymphocyte infiltration.

Examples of several classes of immune response related diseases that may be treated in accordance with the invention are described below. It will be appreciated that many disease and conditions are characterized at least in part by multiple pathological processes and that the classifications provided herein are for descriptive convenience and do not limit the invention.

As discussed hereinabove the sphingosine analog FTY720 has been shown to be effective in reducing relapses and CNS lesions in patients with multiple sclerosis an autoimmune disorder. Because FTY is an S1P receptor antagonist and therefore blocks S1P signaling it is believed that agents that bind bioactive signaling lipids such as lysolipids S1P and LPA and reduce their effective concentration will also demonstrate efficacy in treatment of MS and other autoimmune diseases and conditions. This can be demonstrated using animal models including the acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis EAE model which is widely used as a standard animal model MS. In the rat EAE model FTY provided nearly complete protection against the onset of EAE disease and was accompanied by a reduction in infiltration of T cells into the spinal cord. Normally in EAE myelin basic protein specific T lymphocytes attack the myelinated tissue in the CNS. Inflammatory lesions in the CNS were also absent in FTY treated animals but present in control animals. Fujino et al. 2003 Pharm and Exp Therap. 305 70 77.

Rheumatoid arthritis RA is an autoimmune disease that causes pain and disability due to joint inflammation and degradation. In two animal models of rheumatoid arthritis FTY was compared to the anti rheumatic compounds mizoribine and prednisolone in rat adjuvant induced arthritis AA and collagen induced arthritis CIA models. Efficacy of FTY720 at some doses was almost equal or higher as compared with mizoribine and prednisolone in both AA and CIA models. FTY but not the other compounds significantly decreased circulating lymphocyte levels in treated animals. FTY also demonstrated no abnormal side effects leading the authors to conclude that it has a higher safety margin than the other two compounds both of which demonstrated adverse effects. Matsuura M. et al. 2000 Int. J. Immunopharmacol. 22 323 331. Because FTY is an S1P receptor antagonist and therefore blocks S1P signaling it is believed that agents that bind bioactive signaling lipids such as lysolipids S1P and LPA and reduce their effective concentration will also demonstrate efficacy in treatment of RA and other autoimmune diseases and conditions.

Type I diabetes is an autoimmune disorder in which the immune system damages and or destroys the beta cells in the Islets of Langerhans of the pancreas eliminating insulin production. Based on the efficacy of FTY720 in other autoimmune conditions and in prevention of allograft rejection this compounds effect on development of autoimmune diabetes in nonobese diabetic NOD mice has been examined. Animals were given FTY orally starting from 4 weeks of age. Daily FTY doses prevented development of diabetes in almost all treated mice whereas most untreated NOD mice became diabetic by 35 weeks of age. Withdrawal of FTY at 35 weeks of age led to development of diabetes within 2 weeks in five mice whereas the remaining mice maintained diabetes free conditions for up to 44 weeks of age. No side effect of the drug was seen throughout the treatment period. FTY720 also prevented cyclophosphamide induced diabetes in NOD mice. This led the authors to conclude that FTY is a safe and effective treatment and that it may be useful for long term treatment of prediabetic individuals. Maki T. et al. 2002 Transplantation 74 1684 6. Continuous oral FTY720 treatment in overtly diabetic NOD mice has also been shown to lead to complete reversal of diabetes. Maki T. et al. 2005 Transplantation 79 1051 5. Because FTY is an S1P receptor antagonist and therefore blocks S1P signaling it is believed that agents that bind bioactive signaling lipids such as lysolipids S1P and LPA and reduce their effective concentration will also demonstrate efficacy in treatment of Type 1 diabetes and other autoimmune diseases and conditions.

Scleroderma is an autoimmune disease that causes scarring or thickening of the skin and sometimes involves other areas of the body including the lungs heart and or kidneys. Scleroderma is characterized by the formation of scar tissue fibrosis in the skin and organs of the body which can lead to thickening and firmness of involved areas with consequent reduction in function. Today about 300 000 Americans have scleroderma according to the Scleroderma Foundation. One third or less of those affected have widespread disease while the remaining two thirds primarily have skin symptoms. When the disease affects the lungs and causing scarring breathing can become restricted because the lungs can no longer expand as they should. To measure breathing capability doctors use a device that assesses forced vital capacity FVC . In people with an FVC of less than 50 percent of the expected reading the 10 year mortality rate from scleroderma related lung disease is about 42 percent. One reason the mortality rate is so high is that no effective treatment is currently available.

As described in the examples of this application existing evidence indicates that S1P and LPA are pro fibrotic growth factors that can contribute to fibroblast activation proliferation and the resulting increased fibroblast activity associated with maladaptive scarring and remodeling. Moreover potential roles for S1P and LPA in activity of skin and other types of fibroblasts have been demonstrated. For example it has been shown that LPA stimulates the migration of murine skin fibroblasts Hama et al. 2004 J Biol Chem 279 17634 9 and human skin fibroblasts express several S1P receptor subtypes Zhang et al. 1999 Blood 93 2984 90 . In addition to the many direct effects of S1P on fibroblast activity S1P also may have many potential indirect effects on fibroblast activity. For example S1P may facilitate the action of other well known pro fibrotic factors such as TGF and platelet derived growth factor PDGF . TGF is one of the most widely studied and recognized contributors to fibrosis. Desmouliere et al. 1993 J Cell Biol 122 103 111. TGF upregulates SphK1 expression and activity leading to increased expression of tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases 1 TIMP 1 a protein that inhibits ECM degradation. Yamanaka et al. 2004 J Biol Chem 279 53994 54001. Increased expression of TIMP 1 is linked to interstitial fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction in heart failure patients. Heymans et al. 2005 Am J Pathol 166 15 25. Conversely S1P stimulates expression and release of TGF Norata et al. 2005 Circulation 111 2805 2811. There is also distinct evidence of crosstalk between S1P and PDGF. S1P directly stimulates expression of PDGF. Usui et al. 2004 J Biol Chem 279 12300 12311. In addition the S1P1 receptor and the PDGF receptor bind one another and their association is necessary for PDGF activation of downstream signaling which contributes to proliferation and migration of various cell types. Long et al. 2004 Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat 80 74 80 Baudhuin et al. 2004 Faseb J 18 341 343. As such the effects of TGF and PDGF on fibrosis may be due in part to crosstalk with the S1P signaling pathway. As such the compositions and methods of the invention can be used to treat scieroderma particularly by decreasing the effective in vivo concentration of a particular target lipid for example S1P and or LPA.

Systemic scleroderma is thought to be exacerbated by stimulatory autoantibodies against PDGF receptors Baroni et al. 2006 N Engl J Med. 354 2667 76 and PDGF receptors are up regulated in scleroderma fibroblasts in response to TGF . Yamakage et al. 1992 J Exp Med. 175 1227 34. Because of the substantial cross talk among the S1P PDGF and TGF signaling systems blocking S1P bioactivity with an anti S1P agent e.g. an anti S1P mAb could indirectly mitigate the pro sclerotic effects of PDGF and TGF . Moreover treatment with such an anti S1P agent could benefit scleroderma patients by mitigating the direct effects of S1P including fibrosis on skin and other forms of fibroblasts that contribute to disease progression. Thus it is believed that agents that bind bioactive signaling lipids such as lysolipids S1P and LPA and reduce their effective concentration will also demonstrate efficacy in treatment of scleroderma and other autoimmune diseases and conditions particularly those with a fibrotic component. This gives these agents a distinct advantage over therapeutic agents that modulate either fibrosis or an immune response alone. Inflammatory scarring is a name given to a combination of inflammation and fibrosis originally in the context of chronic renal disease. For discussion see Peters et al. 2004 Kidney Intl. 66 1434 1443. It is believed that agents that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive signaling lipids will be particularly effective in conditions characterized by both a scarring and an autoimmune and or inflammatory component.

E. Reducing the Effective Concentration of Bioactive Lipids for the Prevention and Treatment of Allograft Rejection

In animal models of corneal transplants FTY720 treated mice showed a significant prolongation of orthotopic corneal graft survival when administered orally. Zhang et al. 2003 Transplantation vol 76 1511 3. FTY oral treatment also significantly delayed rejection and decreased its severity in a rat to mouse model of corneal xenotransplantation. Sedlakova et al. 2005 Transplantation vol 79 297 303. Given the known pathogenesis of allograft rejection combined with these data suggesting that modulating the effects of the S1P signaling can improve graft survival it is believed that agents that bind to and thereby decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids will also be useful in treatment of allograft rejection graft versus host disease and other conditions characterized by an aberrant undesired or excessive immune response.

FTY720 has been shown to prevent graft rejection and facilitate long term graft acceptance in animal models rat dog of heart small bowel kidney and liver allografts. In a human clinical trial of FTY in stable renal transplant patients FTY was well tolerated and caused the expected reversible lymphopenia. Budde K. et al. 2002 J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 13 1073 1083. In an initial Phase 2a clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of FTY in de novo renal transplantation in combination with mycophenolate mofetil MMF FTY was found to be as effective as MMF in combination with cyclosporine for the prevention of acute rejection after renal transplantation and was well tolerated. Tedesco Silva H. et al. 2005 Transplantation 79 1553 60.

Because FTY is an S1P receptor antagonist and therefore blocks S1P signaling it is believed that agents that bind bioactive signaling lipids such as lysolipids S1P and LPA and reduce their effective concentration will also demonstrate efficacy in treatment of allograft rejection graft versus host disease and other conditions characterized at least in part by an aberrant excessive or unwanted immune response.

F. Reducing the Effective Concentration of Bioactive Lipids for the Prevention and Treatment of Glomerulonephritis

Immune diseases of the glomerulus such as glomerulonephritis are among the major causes of end stage renal disease. These diseases share a progressive course characterized by fibrosis and inflammation of the tubulointerstitial compartment. Inflammatory scarring is a name given to a combination of inflammation and fibrosis originally in the context of chronic renal disease. For discussion see Peters et al. 2004 Kidney Intl. 66 1434 1443. It is believed that agents that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive signaling lipids will be particularly effective in conditions characterized by both a scarring and an immune and or inflammatory component.

In a rat model of glomerulonephritis FTY720 treatment reduced circulating lymphocyte counts as well as renal lymphocyte infiltration. The course of disease progression was slowed significantly. Peters et al. supra. Because FTY is an S1P receptor antagonist and therefore blocks S1P signaling it is believed that agents that bind bioactive signaling lipids such as lysolipids S1P and LPA and reduce their effective concentration will also demonstrate efficacy in treatment of glomerulonephritis other immune based kidney diseases and other conditions characterized at least in part by an aberrant excessive or unwanted immune response.

The treatment for diseases and conditions such as the examples given above can be administered by various routes employing different formulations and devices. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers and excipients are well known in the art.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the amounts to be administered for any particular treatment protocol can readily be determined. Suitable amounts might be expected to fall within the range of 10 g dose to 10 g dose preferably within 10 mg dose to 1 g dose.

Drug substances may be administered by techniques known in the art including but not limited to systemic subcutaneous intradermal mucosal including by inhalation and topical administration. The mucosa refers to the epithelial tissue that lines the internal cavities of the body. For example the mucosa comprises the alimentary canal including the mouth esophagus stomach intestines and anus the respiratory tract including the nasal passages trachea bronchi and lungs and the genitalia. For the purpose of this specification the mucosa will also include the external surface of the eye i.e. the cornea and conjunctiva. Local administration as opposed to systemic administration may be advantageous because this approach can limit potential systemic side effects but still allow therapeutic effect.

Pharmaceutical compositions used in the present invention include but are not limited to solutions emulsions and liposome containing formulations. These compositions may be generated from a variety of components that include but are not limited to preformed liquids self emulsifying solids and self emulsifying semisolids.

The pharmaceutical formulations used in the present invention may be prepared according to conventional techniques well known in the pharmaceutical industry. Such techniques include the step of bringing into association the active ingredients with the pharmaceutical carrier s or excipient s . Preferred carriers include those that are pharmaceutically acceptable particularly when the composition is intended for therapeutic use in humans. For non human therapeutic applications e.g. in the treatment of companion animals livestock fish or poultry veterinarily acceptable carriers may be employed. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredients with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

The compositions of the present invention may be formulated into any of many possible dosage forms such as but not limited to tablets capsules liquid syrups soft gels suppositories and enemas. The compositions of the present invention may also be formulated as suspensions in aqueous non aqueous or mixed media. Aqueous suspensions may further contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension including for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose sorbitol and or dextran. The suspension may also contain stabilizers.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated and used as foams. Pharmaceutical foams include formulations such as but not limited to emulsions microemulsions creams jellies and liposomes.

While basically similar in nature these formulations vary in the components and the consistency of the final product. The know how on the preparation of such compositions and formulations is generally known to those skilled in the pharmaceutical and formulation arts and may be applied to the formulation of the compositions of the present invention.

Various excipients might also be added to the formulated antibody to improve performance of the therapy make the therapy more convenient or to clearly ensure that the formulated antibody is used only for its intended approved purpose. Examples of excipients include chemicals to control pH antimicrobial agents preservatives to prevent loss of antibody potency dyes e.g. to identify the formulation for particular route of administration only solubilizing agents to increase the concentration of antibody in the formulation penetration enhancers and the use of agents to adjust isotonicity and or viscosity. Inhibitors of e.g. proteases could be added to prolong the half life of the antibody.

The antibody might also be chemically modified to yield a pro drug that is administered in one of the formulations or devices previously described above. The active form of the antibody is then released by action of an endogenous enzyme. Possible ocular enzymes to be considered in this application are the various cytochrome p450s aldehyde reductases ketone reductases esterases or N acetyl glucosamidases. Other chemical modifications to the antibody could increase its molecular weight and as a result increase the residence time of the antibody in the eye. An example of such a chemical modification is pegylation Harris and Chess 2003 Nat Rev Drug Discov 2 214 21 a process that can be general or specific for a functional group such as disulfide Shaunak et al. 2006 Nat Chem Biol 2 312 3 or a thiol Doherty et al. 2005 Bioconjug Chem 16 1291 8 .

The invention will be further described by reference to the following detailed examples. These Examples are in no way to be considered to limit the scope of the invention.

As is summarized in Tables 1 and 2 a 28 day toxicology study with murine monoclonal antibody LT1002 SPHINGOMAB was performed at doses of 0 30 75 and 200 mg kg. As is shown in data tables 1 7 below there was a dose related decline of lymphocytes at all dose levels and of basophils at the highest dose. This decline was reflected in an increase in neutrophils monocytes and reticulocytes and a parallel decrease in lymphocytes. This decrease in circulating neutrophils parallels the effect seen with FTY720 a small molecule sphingosine analog which is a novel immunosuppressive drug that acts by altering lymphocyte trafficking resulting in peripheral blood lymphopenia.

A 28 day study of LT1002 in mice performed by LAB Preclinical Study 1005 2615 in which forty organs and the site of injection tail were evaluated for gross pathology in all Control and High Dose Level Group 4 200 mg kg day animals. LT1002 is the murine version of LT1009 Lpath s anti S1P monoclonal antibody.

Organs evaluated included adrenals aorta thoracic brain cerebral cortex midbrain cerebellum and medulla cecum colon epididymides esophagus eyes femur with marrow gallbladder heart kidneys liver 2 lobes lungs with bronchi lymph nodes mandibular and mesenteric mammary glands inguinal optic nerves ovaries pancreas pituitary prostate rectum salivary glands mandibular sciatic nerve seminal vesicles skeletal muscle thigh ski subcutis inguinal small intestines duodenum ileum and jejunum spinal cord cervical lumbar and thoracic spleen sternum with marrow stomach testes thymus thyroids with parathyroids tongue trachea urinary bladder uterus horns body and cervix and vagina.

The following preliminary histopathological changes were noted by the LAB pathologist for Group 4 200 mg kg day animals. Mild to moderate decreased size of the follicular marginal zone of the splenic white pulp was noted in 6 10 male and 5 10 female mice from Group 4. Although this finding did not suggest splenic lymphoid toxicity it could not be excluded as a LT1002 related change. Decreased size of the splenic follicular marginal zone was characterized by variable narrowing of the lymphoid mantle i.e. marginal zone cuffing the lymphoid follicles of the white pulp.

Mild to marked increased extramedullary hematopoiesis of the splenic red pulp in 3 10 males and 5 10 females from Group 4 and mild increased extramedullary hematopoiesis of the splenic red pulp in one male and one female from Group 3 75 mg kg day the only spleens examined in Group 3 mice were considered potentially LT1002 related but of no toxicological significance. 

Histopathological examination of the spleen of all mice from Groups 2 30 mg kg day and Group 3 75 mg kg day and a full histopathologic assessment of all pre terminal mice are underway. LAB reports no other findings from the histopathologic evaluation of tissues from the Group 4 200 mg kg day animals. As per protocol no tissues from animals in other dose groups besides the 200 mg kg day and saline treated animals were studied except for tissue in animals exhibiting macroscopic abnormalities i.e. local irritation at the site of injection .

FTY720 a small molecule super agonist functional antagonist of at least one or more of the GPCR receptors for S1P is in late clinical development for the treatment of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. FTY720 is thought to act in animals and man by altering lymphocyte trafficking homing patterns. FTY also provides protection in animal models of human cancer. The long term effects of FTY720 include systemic lymphopenia and decreased T cell responses after 2 weeks oral administration of 1 mg kg day to normal female C57BL or C3H mice lymphocytes in peripheral blood peripheral lymph nodes mesenteric lymph nodes Peyer s patches and spleen were all decreased. The long term effects of FTY720 in mice also include a reduction in spleen weights by 65 after 2 weeks oral administration of 1 mg kg day to normal female C57BL or C3H mice.

In the present study decreased spleen weights observed in LAB study 1005 2615 in animals treated with 200 mg kg day LT1002 is consistent with the same finding reported with daily administration of FTY720. Because FTY720 and LT1002 affect the same set of cell receptors albeit by different mechanisms and because the two compounds possess overlapping pharmacologic profiles the reduction in spleen weights and spleen morphology in the present study with LT1002 was not unexpected.

The S1P signaling inhibitor FTY720 is believed to act in an immunosuppressive manner by altering lymphocyte trafficking homing patterns and acceleration of lymphocyte homing. Chiba et al. 1998 J. Immunol. 160 5037. The effect of anti S1P antibody on lymphocyte trafficking is also examined essentially as in published methods. Schwab et al. 2005 Science 309 1735 1739.

Mice are treated with murine S1P monoclonal antibody or an isotype matched control monoclonal antibody. Treatments consist of intravenous injection of antibody diluted into 200 300 L of normal saline. Animals are sacrificed at varying times after antibody administration. Lymphocyte counts are performed in lymph nodes spleen thymus blood and lymph. Antibody inhibition of S1P causes a decrease in circulating lymphocytes i.e. lymphopenia and a corresponding increase in lymphocytes in lymphoid organs similar to that seen after FTY treatment is expected.

Primary ex vivo cytotoxic lymphocyte CTL assays are performed using Cr labeled MC 57 cells incubated in the presence or absence of the immunodominant peptide as targets as described in Murali Krishna K. et al. 1998 Immunity 8 2 177 87. Results are determined by applying the following equation and multiplying by 100 Experimental lysis spontaneous lysis Maximal lysis spontaneous lysis .

Splenocytes 4 10 are incubated for 12 hr in 250 L of RPMI 1640 containing 10 FBS and Golgi Stop Pharmingen San Diego Calif. in the presence of 2 g mL of the immunodominant H 2restricted CD8 T cell epitope peptide. Negative controls are incubated without peptide. Following stimulation cells are stained for CD8 and intracellular IFN as specified by the manufacturer Pharmingen . Following staining cells are analyzed by flow cytometry using a FACScan or FACSCalibur and the data analyzed for expression of CD8 and IFN using CellQuest software Becton Dickinson Immunocytometry Systems San Jose Calif. . Percent of peptide specific activation of CD8 T cells is calculated by dividing the number of CD8 T cells expressing IFN by the total number of CD8 T cells. As a positive control for the induction of T cells to produce IFN an equivalent number of splenocytes from na ve control animals are incubated for 6 hr in the presence of 20 ng mL phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate PMA Calbiochem La Jolla Calif. and 3 M ionomycin Calbiochem prior to staining.

EAE is an experimental autoimmune disease of the central nervous system CNS Zamvil et al 1990 Ann. Rev. Immunol. 8 579 and is a disease model for the human autoimmune condition multiple sclerosis MS Alvord et al Experimental Allergic Model for Multiple Sclerosis NY 511 1984 . It is readily induced in mammalian species for example SJL J mice are a susceptible strain of mice H 2 by immunizations of myelin basic protein purified from the CNS e.g. an emulsion of guinea pig or bovine spinal column or an encephalitogenic proteolipid PLP . Animals develop an acute paralytic disease and an acute cellular infiltrate is identifiable within the CNS. Thus in addition to serving as a standard model for MS this model has also been used to determine T cell infiltration into the CNS. T lymphocytes are rarely found in the normal CNS but during MS HIV induced encephalomyelitis or other CNS inflammatory conditions these cells are present. Symptoms observed include muscle weakness paralysis and lack of coordination. The standard evaluation of disease severity in the EAE model measures clinical behavior on a 0 6 scale 0 normal 1 flaccid tail 2 abnormal gait hind leg weakness 3 partial paralysis severe ataxia 4 minimal hind leg movement after painful stimulus 5 no hind leg movement 6 moribund state with little or no movement. Means are compared between groups to determine the effect of treatment on clinical scores and body weight gain. Statistical significance of clinical scores and weight are resolved using biostatistical analysis.

Collagen induced arthritis CIA is an animal model for the human autoimmune disease rheumatoid arthritis RA . Trenthorn et al 1977 J. Exp. Med. 146 857. This disease can be induced in many species by the administration of heterologous type II collagen Courtenay et al 1980 Nature 283 665 Cathcart et al 1986 Lab. Invest. 54 26 and this is an accepted model for study of the disease.

Collagen induced arthritis CIA in the mouse is induced by immunization of susceptible mice strains with native type II collagen. Macroscopically evident arthritis occurs between days 28 35 after immunization and persists for several months until the joints ankylose. CIA shares several histopathologic features with RA including mononuclear cell infiltration and synovial cell hyperplasia with bone and cartilage destruction. In both RA and CIA disease susceptibility is restricted by MHC class II alleles and autoreactive T cells are prominent in the joint. Because of these similarities CIA is a widely used experimental model for RA. Typically CIA is induced on day 1 in 6 7 week old male mice by intradermal tail base injection of bovine or chicken collagen II CII supplemented with 2.0 mg ml M. tuberculosis emulsified in complete Freund s adjuvant CFA . On day 21 mice receive an intradermal tail base injection of CII in incomplete Freund s adjuvant. Clinical severity of disease is evaluated every 4 days. Each paw is scored for inflammation on a scale of 0 4 0 normal 1 erythema and mild swelling confined to ankle or tarsals or individual digits 2 moderate erythema and swelling of tarsals and ankle 3 severe erythema and mild swelling of ankle tarsals and digits 4 severe erythema and severe swelling of ankle tarsals and digits. Total daily scores for each mouse is obtained by adding scores from all four paws. On day 60 mice are euthanized and forepaws are weighed. For histology paws are fixed with 10 formalin decalcified in Decal Fisher embedded in paraffin and 5 m sections are stained with hematoxylin eosin.

Collagen induced arthritis and djuvant induced arthritis AA are widely used animal models for the evaluation of new anti arthritic drugs. The disease development of these models is also accepted for T cell dependent counterparts of human rheumatoid arthritis. For example anti CD4 antibody suppresses the disease development of AA and CIA indicating that CD4 positive T cells play a major part in the induction of AA and CIA.

Another accepted mouse model for arthritis is the TNF transgene model. Transgenic mice expressing a modified human TNF transgene spontaneously develop a chronic polyarthritis providing further evidence for the direct involvement of TNF in the pathogenesis of human RA. Mice carrying a human TNF transgene with a modified 3 region from a human globin gene show deregulated human TNF expression resulting in low level expression of TNF in the joints and a variety of other organs. In contrast mice carrying a wild type human TNF transgene showed appropriately regulated TNF expression. Mice with deregulated TNF expression developed a chronic symmetric polyarthritis with histologic features similar to human RA. This process does not require a specific genetic background in the target mice. Other well accepted animal models for RA are reviewed in Kannan K. et al. 2005 Pathophysiology 12 167 181.

The efficacy of anti S1P monoclonal antibody is evaluated in the CIA animal model of rheumatoid arthritis. Age 6 8 week old male DBA1 J mice are purchased from Jackson Laboratory Bar Harbor Me. . They are fed with high fat content mouse chow Purina mouse chow 5015 and given deionized water ad libitum.

Animals are randomized to treatment groups 10 mice group based on body weight. Animals receive vehicle saline anti S1P monoclonal antibody or positive control dexamethasone beginning on Day 21. Dosing is p.o. except for dexamethasone which is given s.c. Three dose groups low medium and high of antibody are used. All test articles are tested for the presence of endotoxin because LPS contamination can have a stimulating effect on the disease progression and may interfere with the evaluation of drug efficacy. Severity scores paw volumes are measured three times per week beginning on Day 21 and continuing until Day 42.

To induce arthritis chick type II collagen in Complete Freund s adjuvant CFA mixed 1 1 is administered to all animals by intradermal route at the tail on Day 1 and boosted with type II collagen in Incomplete Freund s adjuvant IFA on Day 21. Beginning on Day 21 and continuing through Day 42 clinical severity score and paw volumes are measured on two hind paws three times per week. Paw thickness is measured using a calibrated caliper. Body weights are monitored weekly. General cage side observations are monitored at least once per day. At necropsy both hind paws are collected and preserved in 10 buffered formalin. Hind paws collected at the necropsy are subject to microradiography using a Faxitron machine.

Paw ankle are decalcified in formic acid until radiotranslucent. Four micron sections are prepared and stained with Safarin O and tartrate resistant acid phosphatase. The histology sections are qualitatively assessed for their extent of inflammation articular cartilage damage bone resorption and destruction and synovial tissue changes.

It has been shown that treatment of nonobese diabetic NOD mice with FTY720 prevents the onset of diabetes. Continuous oral FTY720 treatment in overtly diabetic NOD mice can also result in reversal of diabetes. See Maki et al. supra. It is believed that agents such as anti S1P monoclonal antibody that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids will have a similar effect on diabetes. This will be tested in standard NOD mouse models using standard methods.

Scleroderma a debilitating acquired connective tissue disease is characterized by fibrosis particularly of the skin and lungs. A murine sclerodermatous graft vs host disease Scl GVHD model for scleroderma has been developed for the study of basic immunologic mechanisms that drive fibrosing diseases and GVHD itself. This model reproduces important features of scleroderma including skin thickening lung fibrosis and up regulation of cutaneous collagen mRNA which is preceded by monocyte infiltration and the up regulation of cutaneous TGF 1 mRNA. McCormick L. L. 1999 J. Immunol. 163 5693 5699. Briefly recipient mice are lethally irradiated and then injected with allogeneic donor spleen and bone marrow cell suspension. Sclerodermatous thickening of skin is detectable by day 21 post BMT by image analysis of routine histopathological sections. Other animal models for scleroderma are discussed in a review by Varga Lakos G Takagawa S Varga J. 2004 Methods Mol Med. 102 377 93.

Anti S1P antibody or other agents that bind and reduce the effective concentration of bioactive lipid are administered by tail vein injection on day 1 and again on day 6 post bone marrow transplant. Mice are sacrificed at day 21 and skin and other tissues are collected measured for thickening and analyzed for collagen and immune cells.

To determine the therapeutic effects of anti S1P antibody and other agents that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids in preventing allograft rejection these compounds are tested for activity in a murine vascularized heterotopic heart transplant model. Hearts from Balb c mice are transplanted into the abdominal cavity of C3H mice as primary vascularized grafts essentially as described by Isobe et al. Circulation 1991 84 1246 1255. Test compounds are administered by injection into tail vein or by continuous pump and allograft survival time is monitored by detection of a second heartbeat. Mean survival time of the allograft is expected to increase with anti S1P antibody or other agents that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids.

A well established model to study chronic rejection in renal allografts is the F344 to LEW rat model. All LEW recipients of F344 grafts develop acute rejection at approximately day 30 resulting in 50 graft loss. The surviving animals show histopathological and functional characteristics of CR from day 50. Joosten S. A. et al. 2002 American Journal of Pathology 160 1301 1310. To determine the therapeutic effects of anti S1P monoclonal antibody and other agents that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids in preventing allograft rejection these compounds are tested for activity in the F344 to LEW rat model essentially as described by Joosten et al. supra .

Corneal transplantation penetrating keratoplasty PK is the most successful tissue transplantation procedure in humans yet corneal allograft rejection is still the leading cause of corneal graft failure. Ing J J et al. 1998 Ophthalmology vol 105 1855 1865 . Recently it has been discovered that CD4 T cells function as directly as effector cells and not helper cells in the rejection of corneal allografts. Hegde S et al. 2005 Transplantation vol 79 23 31 . Murine studies have shown increased numbers of neutrophils macrophage and mast cells in the stroma of corneas undergoing rejection. Yamagami S et al. 2005 Mol Vis vol 11 632 40.

FTY720 is an immunosuppressive drug that acts by altering lymphocyte trafficking its immune modulating effects are mediated by binding to some of the S1P receptors expressed on lymphocytes. Bohler T et al. 2005 Transplantation vol 79 492 5 . FTY treated mice showed a significant prolongation of orthotopic corneal graft survival when administered orally. Zhang et al. 2003 Transplantation 76 1511 3 . FTY oral treatment also significantly delayed rejection and decreased its severity in a rat to mouse model of corneal xenotransplantation Sedlakova et al. 2005 Transplantation 79 297 303 . Given the known pathogenesis of allograft rejection combined with the data suggesting that modulating the effects of the S1P signaling can improve corneal graft survival it is believed that agents for example anti S1P monoclonal antibody or other antibodies that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids will also be useful in treatment of immunologic conditions such as allograft rejection for example by attenuating the immune response and thus will likely improve corneal graft survival. These agents are administered by injection into the tail vein or administered directly into the eye and are expected to prolong graft survival.

Immune diseases of the glomerulus such as glomerulonephritis are among the major causes of end stage renal disease. These diseases share a progressive course characterized by fibrosis and inflammation of the tubulointerstitial compartment. For discussion see Peters et al. 2004 Kidney Intl. 66 1434 1443. It is believed that agents such as anti S1P antibody or other agents that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive signaling lipids will be particularly effective in conditions characterized by both a scarring and an autoimmune and or inflammatory component.

In a rat model of glomerulonephritis FTY720 treatment reduced circulating lymphocyte counts as well as renal lymphocyte infiltration. The course of disease progression was slowed significantly. Peters et al. supra. Because FTY is an S1P receptor antagonist and therefore blocks S1P signaling it is believed that agents that bind bioactive signaling lipids such as lysolipids S1P and LPA and reduce their effective concentration will also demonstrate efficacy in treatment of glomerulonephritis other immune based kidney diseases and other conditions characterized at least in part by an aberrant excessive or unwanted immune response.

Mouse models for glomerulosclerosis a model system for glomerulonephritis exist. Gao et al. 2004 Molec. Cell. Biol. 24 9899. The effect of anti S1P monoclonal antibody on renal fibrosis and inflammation is tested in a mouse model of glomerulosclerosis essentially according to Gao. Because of its effect on both the immune response and fibrosis anti S1P monoclonal antibody and other agents that decrease the effective concentration of bioactive lipids are expected to be particularly effective at slowing renal autoimmune disease progression.

The disclosures of each and every patent patent application and publication cited herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirely.

While this invention has been disclosed with reference to specific embodiments it is apparent that other embodiments and variations of this invention may be devised by others skilled in the art without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. The appended claims are intended to be construed to include all such embodiments and equivalent variations.

