---

title: Integrated digital media projection and personal digital data processing system
abstract: Disclosed is a projector and data processing method and system for recommending digital media content to a user. The method and system gather statistics about the preferences of the user and/or compare the user to population data to create recommendations in accord with the preferences of the population. The population data may be qualified by demographics or other factors classifying the user. Sources of the digital media content include radio broadcast television broadcast, global computer network content, email, and personal organizing software/programs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07908303&OS=07908303&RS=07908303
owner: Intellectual Ventures Holding 32 LLC
number: 07908303
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070410
---
It is well known that digital projectors are used to present audiovisual presentations in a business setting. Digital projectors also enjoy an enthusiastic in home user base that utilizes projectors to watch DVD s project internet and computer images and television programming. Digital projectors are also enjoying a growing market share at cinemas where digital films on DVD or large format files stored on hard drives combine with digital projectors to create a more cost efficient way to exhibit films than utilizing the replication of film prints.

Currently home and business projectors utilize USB ports and companies such as Epson Hitachi Sanyo Toshiba and NEC all have projectors with wireless access ports on the market today. This enables projectors to connect to the internet via third party devices and too access documents data streams and broadcasts as well as personal digital assistant PDA information. Each wireless projector unit contains settings that allow for different media sources to gain access via wired and or wireless control to specific data sources through default or selected menu items via the projectors basic user interface system or buttons on the hardware itself.

Conventional digital projector models address media flexibility and format issues allowing users to access various media via wired and wireless ports on in home displays on business displays and on portable devices.

Unfortunately the existing conventional uses for digital projectors have certain limitations in distribution and deployment. The units lack storage an integrated user interface and intuitive access to enable a scheduled mixed and cohesive media display and PDA experience to function as an ongoing media and communication companion based upon the users express and or implied preferences in the home at work or on the go. The projectors also lack the ability to be powered directly by alternative energy sources such as hand crank solar or wind which would benefit the environment and be economically efficient for the user.

Accordingly there is a need for integrated projection systems that allows for access to and display of digital media content i.e. any computer program or media capable of display by a computer such as digital data media from different sources has its own large internal hard drive a simple user interface multiple wireless connection options. Optionally such a device could incorporate an advanced Heliodisplay interface. The system should allow for settings based upon implicit recommended or express actions creating an environment where communication learning and entertainment are presented in a schedule and media programming style and availability that are tailored to the individual user s tastes and desires. The system should also be capable of running on clean or alternative energy sources.

The present invention relates to the creation of a data processing system that combines a digital projector with a wireless modem storage system audio capacity calendar internet access virtual private network access voice activation and various means of accessing and exhibiting multimedia programming. The device may be scaled for use on a portable device a home projector or for larger theatre projectors for display onto a projector screen movie screen portable screen display monitor unit and the like. Additionally the device is especially suited to locations where information is displayed in an individualized manner.

While illustrate a projector based device any type of displays technology may be used such as cathode ray tubes liquid crystal displays LCDs plasma displays digital light processing DLP displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays surface conduction electron emitter display SED displays and liquid crystal on silicon LCoS displays.

The present invention in accordance with one embodiment relates to the creation of a projection system capable of fusing the elements of a portable digital assistant and a media player utilizing wireless access storage USB BlueTooth recommendation technology and the option to power from an alternative energy source such as hand crank solar or wind power gathering and conversion modules.

The digital projector system can be set by specific commands from a user. Alternatively the projector system call be pre programmed either fully or partially by the user. If the projector is only partially programmed then the remainder of the programming may be determined either by user selection or by a recommendation engine module generally subsystem . The recommendation engine is based on a combination of user preferences and outside data used to generate additional recommendation data. A programming system can be a factor of the recommendation engine module where the recommendation data is based upon any one or a combination of user data collaborative filtering data and research data.

The projector comes equipped with single or plural microprocessors not shown that serve two functions. The first function is to enable handling of the projector s basic mechanical functions system conditions power maintenance and commands. The second function is to synthesize software and external digital media content to organize the digital media content access the digital media content from various ports and project the digital media content according to user commands pre programming and the recommendation subsystem. The second function may be further divided between the projector and a processor located at the remote source of digital media content. For example streaming video may be received from a global computer network via a Wi Fi or ethernet port on the projector . The remote computer sending the streaming video has a processor performing a bulk of the processing to transform a digital file into the video stream. The projector processor s decodes or decompresses the video stream in this example.

Digital media content may be stored on the device locally via a hard drive not shown . Digital media content may be accessed via a USB slot which may be linked directly to a computer with offline capacity that may also route television programming to the projector . The USB slot may also be utilized for other remote media players such as iPods or for portable storage devices such as flash drives. Television programming may also be routed directly via the USB port with the projector enabled with a TV video card to carry this programming.

A high speed wireless card or Wi Fi receiver sender may access all of these digital media content elements via any compatible components made to send and or receive wireless digital media content signals. The same is true for BlueTooth devices such as PDA s whose information can also be accessed via the aforementioned connections with the external computer.

All of these sources of information can be smoothly accessed via the general user interface software not shown . This software can present the user interface in Flash HTML or other hybrid language to the end user. Each compatible device can be built in to be compatible with the system via C programming JavaScript PURL database management tools and 3party hardware and software component application programming interfaces APIs . The software and hardware API s can enable an inventory of available digital media content to be accessed from the compatible devices via integration and communication via external systems DLL s and file directories. The DLL based extraction of file directories and corresponding file types are passed through to the main system database which sorts the file directory titles by media type and time of availability from media scheduled as in progress viewing to media scheduled for the end of time . The available digital media content is then presented as elements of the available media schedule listed in a General User Interface GUI . This media schedule may be located in categories within the GUI such as TV Music Movies PDA My Schedule and Computing. The GUI is programmed in a preferred language such as Flash with objects selectable from the projector system database directory. The GUI is published as a projected image on the projector top display voice activated or operational from a third party device that has installed the system software such as a PDA iPod or computer. Once the object is selected in the GUI by the user by click touch or voice activation the corresponding database tag yields a programmed navigation within each file listed from the file directories within the database. This tag displays program title media variety length and where the media is stored. After the media element file has been selected by the user from the GUI the system then reads the tags on the file that correspond to where the media is stored. If the media is stored on the projector s local hard drive then it is located and queued to be planted using the media player software stored within the system . If the media is available via another port such as Wi Fi USB wireless card the system notes this and connects to the applicable hardware through the appropriate port . The system is programmed to be compatible with third party hardware to access the file and effectuate the playing of the file from the native third party hardware. The user may elect to then store the digital media content locally on the projector s hard drive as a favorite or the system may store the digital media content intuitively based upon user preferences and recommendation engine parameters under which the system is programmed to respond.

The aforementioned recommendation subsystem i.e. a recommendation engine is software programming that enhances the projector function in a variety of ways. The recommendation subsystem can be used to create recommendations on demand or to create a digital media content schedule that integrates social calendaring work related items household related items along with media based programming based upon recommendation system parameters. In a preferred embodiment the system is built upon a four pronged recommendation engine.

As illustrated in the first prong is based upon user actions that are stored and accounted for by the recommendation engine in accordance with what content and at what time the user utilizes the specific content. This data may be stored on the hard drive of the recommendation subsystem or may be stored in an ancillary remote server accessible via either wired or wireless transmission called upon by the subsystem . This data is then configured with the database programming software rules which are custom programming rules dedicated to presenting the user with the digital media content he wants at the time the user wants it without the user asking for the content before it is displayed.

User digital media content viewing is logged via the aforementioned tag system to note in the recommendation database what digital media content is viewed by the user and at what time. After a certain amount of uses from zero to infinity the user s content viewing habits become recommended programming. For example if a user plays a morning TV program between 7 7 30 AM three times in a row during the week then under a database rule the program becomes a recommendation default setting. The user request model may use any number of repeated requests to trigger the creation of a recommendation default setting. The recommendation program then queues the software via the CPU to go find the programming from the content source port hardware and import the content into the recommendation engine as previously described. By using a user s behavior as a primary source the recommendation subsystem begins to fill in the daily programming schedule of the user. Programming gaps in the schedule may be filled in by one or more methods alone or in concert.

The second prong utilizes alternate user data obtained by user consent such as credit card bills that describe user patterns demographic information supplied by the user questionnaire s filled out by the user data and cookies may be used to clean and store the users online usage patterns. For example if the user watches the local news every morning the recommendation subsystem may recommend a local evening news program at 6 PM. in such a way the recommendation subsystem may fill in gaps within the user s schedule.

The third prong utilizes research data to infer the user s preferences i.e. a user likes movie A research shows that people who liked movie A also liked movie B so the invention recommendation engine recommends movie to the user . Based upon research model recommendation engines like TuneGenie.com a sample of user data is utilized to generate content matches in the system based on the research of industry professionals. This is also a server based platform that may be updated based upon new content being made available to the overall system . This content may be searchable by the projector system via access to legal sites via a global computer network like iTunes a copyright protected version of YouTube Napster Movielink and Download.com etc. via wired or wireless transmission .

The fourth prong uses collaborative filtering where users of the same service may permit their data to be anonymously gathered in a central database to infer user preferences and offer recommendations. The collaborative filtering member harnesses anonymous user demographics. These demo graphics and programming information are stored on one set of hard drives such as a multi terabyte raid array. Another set of load balancing servers queue incoming and outgoing queries to the system . A third set of servers assigns and matches users and queries and assigns content recommendations based upon theories of collaborative filtering for users with a certain number of content matches such as a 25 overall content match rate as logged in the database between each other from projector system use. The user is then recommended content by the collaborative filtering member software . This is accomplished by a programming engine presenting content recommendations that the user does not have in his list of viewed content within the recommendation engine from another user s list of preferred content based upon their usage of the projector system for example the user may watch a particular television show every week. The collaborative filtering data may show that other users who watch that particular show also tend to watch a second television show. The recommendation engine may use this collaborative data to recommend the second television show to the user through projector .

Before presenting the user with a match the projector system scans available content to make sure that the match is available. If the match is available but costs the user a fee then that is noted by a simple dollar icon or voice activated pay prompt by the projector system that gives the user the option to pay unless the user has set the default to pay for recommended data automatically.

While the four prongs of the recommendation engine have been described separately several prongs may be used concurrently to offer recommendations to the user. For example locations the user has requested or visited the first prong and purchasing habits of the user the second prong may be combined to provide data to a collaborative filtering model the fourth prong . Furthermore the recommendation engine may cycle through each of the four prongs.

From input invention system determines at step a user requested search as explicitly input e.g. via voice activation microphone keypad or other input means by the user and or as implicitly formed by recommendation subsystem tracking user request patterns over time and determining patterns to search. At step system determines search requests based on other user activity and information collected such as described above in the second through fourth prongs of the recommendation engine of .

Next at step invention system performs the determined search requests from Steps and using database servers and described above. From the results of searches by step step generates digital media content recommendations which are output in a manner suitable for rendering through projector onto screen area and or through speakers as described above in . The output recommendations include details of recommended digital media such as 

Client computer s devices and server computer s provide processing storage and input output devices executing application programs and the like. Client computer s devices can also be linked through communications network to other computing devices including other client devices processes and server computer s . Communications network can be part of a remote access network a global networks e.g. the Internet a worldwide collection of computers Local area or Wide area network s and gateways that currently use respective protocols TCP IP. BlueTooth etc. to communicate with one another. Other electronic device computer network architectures are suitable.

In one embodiment the processor routines and data are a computer program product generally referenced including a computer readable medium e.g. a removable storage medium such as one or more DVD ROM s CD ROM s diskettes tapes etc. that provides at least a portion of the software instructions for the inventions system. Computer program product can be installed by any suitable software installation procedure as is well known in the art. In another embodiment at least a portion of the software instructions may also be downloaded over a cable communication and or wireless connection. In other embodiments the invention programs are a computer program propagated signal product embodied on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. a radio wave an infrared wave a laser wave a sound wave or an electrical wave propagated over a global network such as the internet or other network s . Such carrier medium or signals provide at least a portion of the software instructions for the present invention routines program .

In alternate embodiments the propagated signal is an analog carrier wave or digital signal carried on the propagated medium. For example the propagated signal may be a digitized signal propagated over a global network e.g. the internet a telecommunications network or other network. In one embodiment the propagated signal is a signal that is transmitted over the propagation medium over a period of time such as the instructions for a software application sent in packets over a network over a period of milliseconds seconds minutes or longer. In another embodiment the computer readable medium of computer program product is a propagation medium that the computer system may receive and read such as by receiving the propagation medium and identifying a propagated signal embodied in the propagation medium as described above for computer program propagated signal product.

Generally speaking the term carrier medium or transient carrier encompasses the foregoing transient signals propagated signals propagated medium storage medium and the like.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with references to example embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

For example computer architecture of are for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Other configurations are suitable. The projector system may be supported by one or plural processors distributed processing parallel processing and other digital processing configurations.

These invention projector systems can be used in tandem combination or exclusively to design a programming schedule for the user filling in open times with content which may be a PDA schedule email VoIP work files entertainment such as a film music television stored pictures and video online content or software program access. Interactive items such as a PDA schedule email or work files call be accessed via the projection system touch screen or mouse system via a third party device control running the projection system software or via Heliodisplay . The Heliodisplay is a free space display by IO2 technologies. The display uses rear projection to protect images or video onto a nearly invisible plane of transformed air. The image or video appearing to float in mid air is two dimensional and non holographic though the viewer may perceive a three dimensional image due to the lack of physical depth reference. The device does not introduce any new materials into the air that do not already exist in the air. According to the inventor air moves through a dozen metal plates and then comes out again .

The device can work as a floating touch screen when connected to a PC by a USB cable. With the supplied software installed one can use a finger pen or another object as cursor control and navigate or interact with simple content.

The projector itself may include any existing models in the marketplace such as a liquid crystal display LCD digital light projection DLP and liquid crystal on silicone LCoS . Systems are coupled with fans basic CPU s storage and wireless connections. The variable sizes of the system make them applicable for projection of digital films and live events at digital projection movie theaters. Epson Hitachi Sanyo Toshiba and NEC among others all have projectors with wireless access ports on the market today. The projectors may also be pocket sized and used as a mobile device. Portable energy gathering and conversion modules such as solar wind and hand crank mechanisms can be utilized to gather and convert electricity to the proper state via an inverter to power the projectors using one or more forms of alternative energy in concert. The projectors may be mounted from the ceiling in a kitchen or other room of a home and utilized entirely via voice command or via wireless notebook PC control.

The system may be used in any place where personal information displays are used. For example JetBlue airline incorporates individual LCD television screens into the seatbacks of its aircraft so each passenger may choose what to watch or listen to each aircraft is connected via satellite dish to DirectTV and XM Radio . If a passenger has a subscription to Sports Illustrated magazine then the LCD screen at the passenger s seat could be preset to ESPN . Likewise if a passenger is twenty three years old demographic data may s how that twenty three year olds are most likely to watch MTV and the LCD screen at the twenty three year old passenger s seat could be preset to MTV .

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to example embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

