---

title: Minigene expression cassette
abstract: Methods and compositions for expressing a gene or nucleotide sequence of interest are provided. The compositions include an expression cassette that includes a synthetic enhancer, a transthyretin promoter, and a nucleotide sequence operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter. The expression cassette may be used in an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector, such as a self-complementary AAV vector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08129510&OS=08129510&RS=08129510
owner: Benitec Biopharma Limited
number: 08129510
owner_city: Balmain, NSW
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20070330
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 787 459 filed Mar. 30 2006 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contracts HL064274 HL066948 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This work was supported in part by the National Institutes of Health NIH Grant number HL 64274. Accordingly the United States government may have certain rights.

The subject matter described herein relates to expression cassettes. More particularly liver specific expression cassettes are described.

Recombinant gene therapy techniques have been developed and evaluated in preclinical and clinical tests over the last fifteen years. Gene therapy techniques are particularly promising for treating diseases or deficiencies that are caused by a deficiency or abnormality in the expression of a particular gene in specific cell or tissue types because a gene of interest can be placed under the control of a cell specific or tissue specific promoter to achieve location specific expression of that gene. In particular there has been significant interest in developing gene therapy techniques to treat liver specific diseases or deficiencies.

Multiple recombinant gene transfer vectors based on different types of viruses have been developed and tested in clinical trials in recent years. Gene transfer vectors based on adeno associated virus AAV have become favored vectors because of characteristics such as an ability to i transduce different types of dividing and non dividing cells of different tissues and ii establish stable long term transgene expression. While vectors based on other viruses such as adenoviruses and retroviruses also posses such desirable characteristics the use of other vectors has been associated with toxicity of some human diseases. These side effects have not been detected with gene transfer vectors based on AAV. Additionally the technology to produce and purify AAV based vectors without undue effort has been developed.

AAV based vectors have provided encouraging results for providing a method of liver specific gene expression. For example clinical trials showed that a recombinant AAV vector containing a factor IX FIX sequence was able to produce a therapeutic circulating level of FIX protein from hepatocytes in hemophilia B patients. A deficiency of FIX which is a coagulation factor normally produced by the liver is the cause of hemophilia B. Hemophilia B is an ideal disease target for gene therapy because it is due to a single gene mutation and because a small increase in the circulating levels of FIX is sufficient to measurably reduce the symptoms of hemophilia B. However it was observed in the clinical trials described above that the circulating level of FIX protein dropped below therapeutic levels after several weeks Wang L. et al. 5 349 360 2005 High K. A. 30 257 267 2004 . It is believed that the high doses of the recombinant AAV vector that were used triggered an immune response against the transduced hepatocytes.

Thus there remains a need for providing liver specific expression of a gene. In particular there is a need for liver specific expression constructs that provide robust expression levels from viral vectors that do not trigger an inactivating immune response.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

In one aspect compositions for expressing a gene or nucleotide sequence of interest in the liver are provided. The compositions are comprised of an expression cassette comprising a synthetic enhancer a transthyretin promoter and a nucleotide sequence operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter.

In one embodiment the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter have a sequence selected from the group consisting of sequences having at least about 80 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 3 and SEQ ID NO 3.

In another embodiment the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter have a sequence selected from the group consisting of sequences having at least about 80 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 7 and SEQ ID NO 7.

In another embodiment the nucleotide sequence that is operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter is a factor IX sequence.

In another embodiment the vector is comprised of three plasmids a first plasmid comprising an expression cassette comprising a synthetic enhancer a transthyretin promoter and a nucleotide sequence operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter a second plasmid comprising adenoviral helper genes and a third plasmid comprising AAV replication and capsid genes.

In one embodiment the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter have a sequence selected from the group consisting of sequences having at least about 80 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 3 and SEQ ID NO 3 the nucleotide sequence that is operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter is a factor IX sequence and the capsid gene is an AAV 2 or an AAV 8 capsid gene.

In another embodiment the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter have a sequence selected from the group consisting of sequences having at least about 80 sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 7 and SEQ ID NO 7 the nucleotide sequence that is operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter is a factor IX sequence and the capsid gene is an AAV 2 or an AAV 8 capsid gene.

In another aspect methods of expressing a nucleotide of interest in a mammalian liver by delivering to the liver an expression cassette comprising a synthetic enhancer a transthyretin promoter and the nucleotide sequence operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter.

In one embodiment expression of a nucleotide of interest is for use in a treating a disease or disorder by expressing a protein encoded by the nucleotide of interest in a therapeutically effective amount.

In one embodiment the method comprises delivery of a vector for expression of factor IX FIX for treatment of hemophilia B.

In addition to the exemplary aspects and embodiments described above further aspects and embodiments will become apparent by reference to the drawings and by study of the following descriptions.

SEQ ID NO 3 is an example of a sequence including a synthetic enhancer SynEnh sequence followed by a transthyretin sequence with several nucleotides between the two sequences.

SEQ ID NO 4 is a nucleotide sequence of a portion of the human FIX gene with a 0.3 kb mini intron and a synthetic polyadenylation signal of about 70 bp.

SEQ ID NO 5 is a nucleotide sequence that includes a portion of the canine FIX gene with a 0.3 kb mini intron which was reduced from the 1.4 kb intron A in the canine FIX gene and a synthetic polyadenylation signal of about 70 bp.

SEQ ID NO 6 is the nucleotide sequence of an expression cassette as depicted in and comprised of an enhancer promoter of SEQ ID NO 7 a FIX gene and intron of SEQ ID NO 9 and a poly A signal of SEQ ID NO 10.

SEQ ID NO 8 is an intron sequence associated with the expression cassette of SEQ ID NO 6 and more particularly with the FIX gene of SEQ ID NO 9.

The practice of the subject matter described herein will employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of molecular biology microbiology cell biology and recombinant DNA which are within the skill of the art. See e.g. Sambrook Fritsch and Maniatis MOLECULAR CLONING A LABORATORY MANUAL 2nd edition 1989 CURRENT PROTOCOLS IN MOLECULAR BIOLOGY F. M. Ausubel et al. eds. 1987 the series METHODS IN ENZYMOLOGY Academic Press Inc. PCR 2 A PRACTICAL APPROACH M. J. McPherson B. D. Hames and G. R. Taylor eds. 1995 and ANIMAL CELL CULTURE R. I. Freshney. Ed. 1987 .

As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.

A polynucleotide is typically composed of a specific sequence of four nucleotide bases adenine A cytosine C guanine G and thymine T uracil U for thymine T when the polynucleotide is RNA . Thus the term polynucleotide sequence is the alphabetical representation of a polynucleotide molecule. This alphabetical representation can be input into databases in a computer having a central processing unit and used for bioinformatics applications such as functional genomics and homology searching.

An isolated polynucleotide molecule is a nucleic acid molecule separate and discrete from the whole organism with which the molecule is found in nature or a nucleic acid molecule devoid in whole or part of sequences normally associated with it in nature or a sequence as it exists in nature but having heterologous sequences in association therewith.

Techniques for determining nucleic acid and amino acid sequence identity also are known in the art. Typically such techniques include determining the nucleotide sequence of the mRNA for a gene and or determining the amino acid sequence encoded thereby and comparing these sequences to a second nucleotide or amino acid sequence. In general identity refers to an exact nucleotide to nucleotide or amino acid to amino acid correspondence of two polynucleotides or polypeptide sequences respectively. Two or more sequences polynucleotide or amino acid can be compared by determining their percent identity. The percent identity of two sequences whether nucleic acid or amino acid sequences is the number of exact matches between two aligned sequences divided by the length of the shorter sequences and multiplied by 100. Percent identity may also be determined for example by comparing sequence information using the advanced BLAST computer program including version 2.2.9 available from the National Institutes of Health. The BLAST program is based on the alignment method of Karlin and Altschul. 87 2264 2268 1990 and as discussed in Altschul et al. 215 403 410 1990 Karlin And Altschul 90 5873 5877 1993 and Altschul et al. 25 3389 3402 1997 . Briefly the BLAST program defines identity as the number of identical aligned symbols i.e. nucleotides or amino acids divided by the total number of symbols in the shorter of the two sequences. The program may be used to determine percent identity over the entire length of the proteins being compared. Default parameters are provided to optimize searches with short query sequences in for example blastp with the program. The program also allows use of an SEG filter to mask off segments of the query sequences as determined by the SEG program of Wootton and Federhen 17 149 163 1993 . Ranges of desired degrees of sequence identity are approximately 80 to 100 and integer values therebetween. Typically the percent identities between a disclosed sequence and a claimed sequences are at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 98 .

Alternatively the degree of sequence similarity between polynucleotides can be determined by hybridization of polynucleotides under conditions that form stable duplexes between homologous regions followed by digestion with single stranded specific nuclease s and size determination of the digested fragments. Two DNA or two polypeptide sequences are substantially homologous to each other when the sequences exhibit at least about 80 85 preferably 85 90 more preferably 90 95 and most preferably 98 100 sequence identity to the reference sequence over a defined length of the molecules as determined using the methods above. As used herein substantially homologous also refers to sequences showing complete identity to the specified DNA or polypeptide sequence. DNA sequences that are substantially homologous can be identified in a Southern hybridization experiment under for example stringent conditions as defined for that particular system. Defining appropriate hybridization conditions is within the skill of the art. See e.g. Sambrook et al. supra DNA Cloning supra Nucleic Acid Hybridization supra.

In a first aspect an expression cassette comprising a gene or nucleotide sequence of interest is provided. In another aspect vectors comprising the expression cassette for expressing the gene or nucleotide sequence of interest in a tissue and in particular in the liver and particularly in mammalian livers are provided. The expression cassettes and exemplary vectors will now be described.

In one embodiment the expression cassette comprises a synthetic enhancer SynEnh a transthyretin promoter TTR and a nucleotide sequence operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter. Exemplary constructs are shown in where a synthetic enhancer is fused to a transthyretin promoter SynEnh TTR . The synthetic enhancer sequence comprises a series of binding sites for activator proteins that regulate the expression of the nucleotide sequence under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter. The binding sites include for example binding sites for hepatocyte nuclear factors 1 3 4 and 6 HNF 1 HNF 3 HNF 4 and HNF 6 and the liver specific enhancer binding protein C EBP .

A synthetic enhancer sequence that may be used is shown in SEQ ID NO 1 and it is contemplated that enhancer sequences that hybridize to SEQ ID NO 1 under stringent conditions are also suitable for use in the expression cassette. Other suitable synthetic enhancer sequences are known in the art and include but are not limited to those disclosed by Szymanski P. et al. 8 4 514 2006 Gehrke S. et al. 322 137 2003 and McLellan A. S. et al. 291 2 C300 2006 .

The full length TTR promoter normally controls expression of the serum thyroxine binding protein which is made by hepatocytes and by the choroid plexus epithelium in adults. In one embodiment a preferred TTR promoter is a TTR promoter in which the region which controls choroids plexus expression is deleted. The preferred TTR promoter described herein retains the regions which drive liver specific expression. With continuing reference to a preferred TTR promoter includes a core promoter region and an endogenous enhancer region. A preferred TTR promoter also includes binding sites for hepatocyte nuclear factors 1 3 4 and 6 HNF 1 HNF 3 HNF 4 and HNF 6 the liver specific enhancer binding protein C EBP and activating protein 1 AP 1 . A sequence of a preferred TTR promoter is shown in SEQ ID NO 2 and it is contemplated that sequences that hybridize to SEQ ID NO 2 under stringent conditions are also suitable for use in the expression cassette.

The SynEnh and TTR sequences in the expression cassette may be directly adjacent or separated by a short region of nucleotides. The short region of nucleotides may include one or more restriction enzyme sites. An example of a sequence including a SynEnh sequence followed by a TTR sequence with several nucleotides between the two sequences is shown in SEQ ID NO 3.

As noted above a nucleotide sequence is operably linked to the SynEnh TTR sequence. A gene is operably linked to another nucleotide sequence when it is placed in a functional relationship with another nucleotide sequence. For example if a coding sequence is operably linked to a promoter sequence this generally means that the promoter may promote transcription of the coding sequence. Operably linked means that the DNA sequences being linked are typically contiguous and where necessary to join two protein coding regions contiguous and in reading frame. However since enhancers may function when separated from the promoter by several kilobases and intronic sequences may be of variable length some nucleotide sequences may be operably linked but not contiguous. Additionally as defined herein a nucleotide sequence is intended to refer to a natural or synthetic linear and sequential array of nucleotides and or nucleosides and derivatives thereof. The terms encoding and coding refer to the process by which a nucleotide sequence through the mechanisms of transcription and translation provides the information to a cell from which a series of amino acids can be assembled into a specific amino acid sequence to produce a polypeptide.

The nucleotide sequence that is operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter may encode a gene or at least a part of a gene of interest. The gene may be an endogenous or viral gene and may be associated with a disease or pathology.

In one aspect the nucleotide sequence that is operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter encodes a gene or a part of a gene whose expression is desired in the liver. The gene s expression in the liver may be desired in order to produce a protein encoded by the gene that is either missing or abnormal in the subject liver. The gene may be a gene that is normally expressed in the liver or a gene that is not normally expressed in the liver.

In one embodiment the nucleotide sequence that is operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter is a factor IX FIX sequence. The FIX sequence may be a human sequence or a non human sequence e.g. a non human mammalian sequence. In one embodiment the FIX sequence is SEQ ID NO 4 which is a sequence that includes a portion of the human FIX gene with a 0.3 kb mini intron and a synthetic polyadenylation signal of about 70 bp Xia H. et al. 20 1006 2002 .

In another embodiment the FIX sequence is SEQ ID NO 5 which is a sequence that includes a portion of the canine FIX gene with a 0.3 kb mini intron which was reduced from the 1.4 kb intron A in the canine FIX gene and a synthetic polyadenylation signal of about 70 bp.

In another embodiment the FIX sequence is SEQ ID NO 9 wherein the intron sequence has been shortened by about 200 bp. The shortened intron is identified herein as SEQ ID NO 8.

While preferred sequences are described for the synthetic enhancer transthyretin promoter and nucleotide sequence that is operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter are provided above it is recognized that the sequences may be varied yet retain similar function. In particular sequences that hybridize under stringent conditions to any of the nucleotide sequences described herein are contemplated for use in the expression cassettes vectors and methods of use.

A study was conducted to evaluate the activity and specificity of an expression cassette comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 which comprises SynEnh and TTR sequences. As described in Example 1 a first plasmid was constructed in which the Renilla luciferase gene was placed under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter. A second plasmid was constructed in which the Renilla luciferase gene was placed under the control of a wildtype TTR promoter. Huh 7 and HEK293 cells were transiently transfected with the plasmids along with a control vector expressing the firefly luciferase gene. Following incubation at standard tissue culture conditions for 36 hours the levels of Renilla and firefly luciferase were measured. Results are shown in Table 1.

As shown in Table 1 the plasmid with the SynEnh TTR expression cassette produced a 42 fold higher level of liver specific luciferase expression than the plasmid with the wildtype TTR promoter.

In another study described in Example 2 the activity of an expression cassette comprising the SynEnh TTR construct was evaluated in vivo. Plasmids containing an expression cassette with the human or canine FIX SEQ ID NO 4 and SEQ ID NO 5 respectively under the control of SynEnh TTR SEQ ID NO 3 were prepared. In addition plasmids containing the human or canine FIX sequences SEQ ID NO 4 and SEQ ID NO 5 respectively under the control of the apolipoprotein E hepatic control region ApoE HCR and the human 1 antitrypsin promoter hAAT were prepared. The four plasmids were injected into mice and circulating FIX levels were measured three days post injection. The results are shown in .

As seen in while the expression cassettes that included FIX under the control of SynEnh TTR open triangles and squares produced approximately 2.5 fold less FIX than the plasmids containing FIX under the control of the apolipoprotein E hepatic control region ApoE HCR and the human 1 antitrypsin promoter hAAT closed triangles and squares this difference is not significant in view of the fact that the SynEnh TTR is about 1.5 kb smaller than the other cassettes. Also the expression of FIX from a cassette comprising the SynEnh TTR construct can be increased approximately 8 20 fold relative to the expression of FIX under the control of the apolipoprotein E hepatic control region ApoE HCR and the human 1 antitrypsin promoter hAAT when inserted into a cassette comprising the SynEnh TTR construct into a self complementary AAV vector scAAV which is typically 20 to 50 fold more efficacious than a single stranded AAV vector 2.5 fold less 20 to 50 fold more efficient 8 to 20 fold more efficient . Self complementary AAV vectors are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 701 279 filed Jan. 31 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein.

An example of a scAAV vector is diagramed in . scAAV vectors contain a linear DNA sequence that includes a transgene and an inverted repeat of the transgene. Because of the presence of both the transgene and the inverted repeat of the transgene scAAV vectors fold back on themselves upon entering the nucleus to quickly form the double stranded DNA that is either formed into circular episomal DNA or integrated in the host genome to provide transgene expression. The time required for conventional single stranded AAV vectors to be converted into double stranded DNA by either replication or positive and negative strand annealing is a rate limiting step that may hinder the expression of transgenes from single stranded AAV vectors.

The construct shown in includes the expression cassette comprising the human or canine FIX SEQ ID NOs 4 and 5 respectively under the control of SynEnh TTR SEQ ID NO 3 as described above. The expression cassette is located between an inverted terminal repeat ITR of AAV serotype 2 AAV 2 and an ITR of AAV serotype 4 AAV 4 . There is approximately 50 sequence identity between the ITRs of AAV 2 and AAV 4. The terminal resolution site trs of the ITR of AAV 4 used herein is deleted and thus the right ITR is labeled as ITR 4. The use of different ITRs helps prevent recombination repair of the trs. This particular combination of ITRs results in more efficient replication more infectious particles and higher particle titers than constructs including both AAV 2 ITRs. A skilled artisan will appreciate that other combinations of ITRs may be used such as ITRs from other AAV serotypes.

The construct shown in was placed in a pSC U6 plasmid which is a pBluescript ks II based vector to provide an AAV vector plasmid. The AAV vector plasmid included an inverted repeat of the region of the construct shown in that is between the ITRs and thus is a scAAV vector plasmid.

The scAAV vector plasmid described above is preferably used in combination with a second plasmid comprising adenoviral helper genes and a third plasmid comprising AAV replication rep and capsid cap genes to triple transfect HEK293 cells as previously described Nakai et al. 79 214 24 2005 Thomas et al. 78 3110 22 2004 . The AAV rep and cap genes are the two AAV genes that encode AAV replication and capsid proteins respectively. As defined herein the scAAV vector plasmid in combination with a plasmid providing adenoviral helper genes and a plasmid comprising AAV rep and cap genes is an AAV vector more specifically a scAAV vector that can be used to provide recombinant AAV in cells that are triple transfected with the three plasmids. Also plasmids encoding scAAV vector genomes including either the human or canine FIX expression cassettes provided herein can be injected into mice by hydrodynamic tail vein injection to observe the FIX protein levels obtained from the vectors.

Preferably the AAV cap genes provide an AAV 2 or AAV 8 capsid more preferably an AAV 8 capsid. It has been observed previously that AAV 8 vectors are more efficient at gene transfer in vivo than AAV 2 vectors. AAV 8 vectors appear to be equally efficient at liver transduction if administered by peripheral IV or hepatic vessel infusion. Also as AAV 8 has a non human origin it is unlikely that pre existing anti AAV 8 antibodies will limit transduction in human patients treated with AAV 8 vectors.

The expression cassettes and vectors described herein provide several advantages over prior expression cassettes and vectors. For example the synthetic enhancer and transthyretin promoter provide a short control sequence that is able to drive robust liver specific expression of a gene. The shortness of the synthetic enhancer and transthyretin promoter allows for the use of longer genes or gene fragments in a vector including the synthetic enhancer and transthyretin promoter as well as the use of the expression cassettes in double stranded AAV vectors such as self complementary AAV vectors that have been observed to be from 20 to 50 times more efficient than single stranded vectors but typically can only accept 2.3 to 2.4 kb of exogenous nucleotide sequence. Also a lower vector dosage is required to achieve a therapeutic result because of the efficiency of the expression cassette itself in combination with the efficiency of self complementary AAV vectors. The use of lower vector dosage reduces the probability of transduced cells being recognized and destroyed by an immune response such as a cytotoxic T lymphocyte CTL response that has been observed in other clinical trials.

A scAAV expression cassette as depicted in was constructed and tested in vivo for expression data not shown . The expression cassette SEQ ID NO 6 was comprised of a synthetic enhancer and TTR promoter SEQ ID NO 7 a factor IX mini gene SEQ ID NO 9 including a mini intron SEQ ID NO 8 and a synthetic polyadenylation signal SEQ ID NO 10 . This scAAV construct was administered in vivo as will be described below.

In another aspect methods of expressing a gene or nucleotide of interest are provided. In a preferred embodiment a nucleotide sequence of interest is expressed in a selected tissue for treatment of a genetic disorder. For example hemophilia B is a genetic disorder caused by a deficiency in coagulation factor IX FIX normally produced in the liver and manifests as unpredictable recurrent and spontaneous bleeding in soft tissues and or major joints. This recurrent bleeding can lead to crippling joint abnormalities in the most severely affected individuals.

Accordingly in one embodiment a vector containing an expression cassette a synthetic enhancer a transthyretin promoter and a nucleotide sequence operably under the control of the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter wherein the synthetic enhancer and the transthyretin promoter comprise the sequence of SEQ ID NO 3.

In another embodiment a self complementary AAV vector containing an expression cassette that is flanked by AAV inverted terminal repeats ITR of serotype 2 and 4 50 sequence identity where the trs of the right AAV4 ITR is deleted ITR 4 .

For treatment of hemophilia B the vector contains a nucleotide sequence encoding for a factor IX protein. Expression of the protein after introduction of the vector to the subject is effective to increase the circulating levels of the protein in the blood.

The vector is introduced to the mammal typically by injection intravenously subcutaneously parenterally or the like in an amount to provide a therapeutically effective amount of the protein.

In a supporting study a canine equivalent of the expression cassette of SEQ ID NO 6 and as shown in was constructed. As described in Example 3 the vector was administered to a dog suffering from hemophilia B. Whole blood clotting time WBCT and circulating FIX levels were measured at several time points post injection and the results are shown in . Clotting time was significantly reduced to normal levels within two days of the injection and circulating FIX levels reached 2 of normal within two weeks post injection of the vector. There was no significant change in any physiological conditions tested by blood chemistries and complete blood counts. These results showed that the self complementary vector was safe and effective.

In another study in vivo expression of human FIX for the enhancer promoter combinations described herein were determined and compared to the hFIX expression of an ApoE HCR enhancer hAAT promoter and a deltaApoE HCR deltahAAT promoter Nathwani A. C. et al. 107 7 2653 2005 . Following hydrodynamic tail vein injection of 20 g of each plasmid into 3 5 mice per group serum samples from each mouse were assayed for circulating FIX levels by ELISA experiments. As seen in the Synthetic Enhancer SynEnh attached to the TTR Core promoter open squares increased expression at day three by 2.5 fold and is within the same statistical error of the ApoE HCR hAAT enhancer promoter filled squares . Use of this improved enhancer promoter in combination with the self complimentary AAV genome and the use of serotype AAV 8 vectors is expected to give a total expression of FIX or any other gene under its operative control 5 to 15 fold higher than previous vectors. Thus this improved gene expression and optimized efficacy of the vector provides a safe effective and long term treatment for various conditions such as hemophilia B.

The expression profile of the SynEnh TTR promoter was evaluated as follows. Two different plasmids were constructed. The first plasmid was comprised of the TTR promoter alone which controlled expression of the Renilla luciferase gene. The second plasmid was comprised of combined SynEnh TTR promoter SEQ ID NO 3 controlling the expression of the Renilla luciferase gene.

The plasmids were transiently transfected into HUH 7 liver hepatoma and HEK293 embryonic kidney cell lines in triplicate. As a transfection and expression control pGL3 Control vector Promega was cotransfected along with the plasmids. The pGL3 control vector contains the Firefly luciferase gene under the control of a ubiquitous SV40 promoter and enhancer.

Following incubation at standard tissue culture conditions for 36 hours the quantities of Renilla and Firefly luciferases were measured. Results are shown in Table 1.

Plasmids pNEB 193 derivatives containing a 2.3 kb expression cassette with the human or canine FIX SEQ ID NO 4 and SEQ ID NO 5 respectively under the control of SynEnh TTR SEQ ID NO 3 were prepared.

In addition plasmids containing the human or canine FIX sequences SEQ ID NO 4 and SEQ ID NO 5 respectively under the control of the apolipoprotein E hepatic control region ApoE HCR and the human 1 antitrypsin promoter hAAT were prepared.

Forty micrograms of each plasmid containing an expression cassette was introduced into C57 B6 mice via hydrodynamic tail vein injection Nakai et al. 7 101 111 2003 and serum samples from each mouse were assayed post injection for circulating FIX levels by ELISA. About 30 of the mouse liver hepatocytes were transfected with the plasmids. Circulating FIX levels micrograms millileter were measured three days post injection and the results are shown in where open squares and triangles correspond to FIX plasma concentrations from expression cassettes comprising SynEnh TTR constructs while closed squares and triangles represent FIX plasma concentrations for expression cassettes comprising ApoE HCR and the human 1 antitrypsin promoter hAAT . Standard deviations are indicated by vertical bars.

A single canine suffering from hemophilia B was injected by IV infusion with a single dose of 2.0 10 g kg. Whole blood clotting time WBCT and circulating FIX levels were measured at several time points post injection. Results are shown in .

While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications permutations additions and sub combinations thereof. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims and claims hereafter introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications permutations additions and sub combinations as are within their true spirit and scope.

