---

title: Frequency autonormalisation reservoir mapping
abstract: A method of locating subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs includes acquiring seismic data, dividing the seismic data into time windows, applying a data transform to the seismic data having a plurality of components to obtain a smoothed frequency spectrum, selecting one or more local maxima and minima, determining a frequency product as a function of the maxima and minima in a form for display. Lower and higher ratio thresholds may be selected to further discriminate frequency product selection for display. A display or map of frequency products over a survey area may indicate the presence of subsurface fluid reservoirs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07729862&OS=07729862&RS=07729862
owner: Spectraseis AG
number: 07729862
owner_city: Züich
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20070522
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 804 420 filed 9 Jun. 2006 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 806 455 filed 30 Jun. 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 866 152 filed 16 Nov. 2006.

The disclosure is related to seismic exploration for oil and gas and more particularly to processing and displaying data.

Seismic exploration for hydrocarbons is conducted using a source of seismic energy and receiving and recording the energy generated by the source using seismic detectors. On land the seismic energy source may be an explosive charge or another energy source having the capacity to impart impacts or mechanical vibrations at or near the earth s surface. Seismic waves generated by these sources travel into the earth s subsurface and are reflected back from strata boundaries and reach the surface of the earth at varying intervals of time depending on the distance traveled and the characteristics of the subsurface material traversed. The return waves are detected by the sensors and representations of the seismic waves as representative electrical signals are recorded for processing into images.

Normally signals from sensors located at varying distances from the source are added together during processing to produce stacked seismic traces. In marine seismic surveys the source of seismic energy is typically air guns. Marine seismic surveys typically employ a plurality of sources and or a plurality of streamer cables in which seismic sensors are mounted to gather three dimensional data.

The process of exploring for and exploiting subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs is often costly and inefficient because operators have imperfect information from geophysical and geological characteristics about reservoir locations. Furthermore a reservoir s characteristics may change as it is produced.

Geophysical and geological methods are used to determine well locations. Expensive exploration investment is often focused in the most promising areas using relatively slow methods such as reflection seismic data acquisition and processing. The acquired data are used for mapping potential hydrocarbon bearing areas within a survey area to optimize exploratory well locations and to minimize costly non productive wells.

The time from mineral discovery to production may be shortened if the total time required to evaluate and explore a survey area can be reduced by applying selected methods alone or in combination with other geophysical methods. Some methods may be used as a standalone decision tool for oil and gas development decisions when no other data is available.

Geophysical and geological methods are used to maximize production after reservoir discovery as well. Reservoirs are analyzed using time lapse surveys i.e. repeat applications of geophysical methods over time to understand reservoir changes during production.

Data acquisition for oil exploration may have a negative impact on the environment. The impact of oil exploration methods on the environment may be reduced by using low impact methods and or by narrowing the scope of methods requiring an active source including reflection seismic and electromagnetic surveying methods.

Various geophysical data acquisition methods have a relatively low impact on field survey areas. Low impact methods include gravity and magnetic surveys that maybe used to enrich or corroborate structural images and or integrate with other geophysical data such as reflection seismic data to delineate hydrocarbon bearing zones within promising formations and clarify ambiguities in lower quality data e.g. where geological or near surface conditions reduce the effectiveness of reflection seismic methods.

In one embodiment a method of locating subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs includes acquiring seismic data dividing the seismic data into time windows decomposing the seismic data to obtain a data spectrum selecting a first local amplitude minimum of the data spectrum and an adjacent local amplitude maximum multiplying the local amplitude value maximum by a function of the local amplitude minimum to obtain a frequency product and recording the frequency product in a form for display.

In another embodiment a method of processing seismic data includes decomposing seismic data to obtain a spectral component over a selected frequency range. For the spectral component a local amplitude maximum and a first adjacent local amplitude minimum are selected. The local amplitude value maximum is multiplied by a function of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum to obtain a frequency ratio pair and recorded in a form for display.

In another embodiment an information handling system for mapping an area associated with seismic data includes a processor configured to decompose seismic data to obtain a spectral component over a selected frequency range and is configured to multiply a local amplitude value maximum of the spectral component over a selected frequency range by a function of a first adjacent local amplitude minimum to obtain a frequency ratio pair.

In another embodiment a set of application program interfaces are embodied on a machine readable medium for execution by a processor in conjunction with an application program for processing seismic data. The interfaces include a first interface that receives frequency ratio data representative of a local amplitude value maximum of a spectral component of seismic data multiplied by a function of a first adjacent local amplitude minimum of the spectral component. A second interface receives the frequency ratio data to determine broad peak frequency location of frequency ratio pair data.

Information to enable the direct detection of hydrocarbon reservoirs may be extracted from naturally occurring seismic waves and vibrations measured at the earth s surface. These naturally occurring waves may be measured using passive seismic data acquisition methods. Peaks and troughs local minima and maxima in the spectral ratio at various frequencies may be used to form an indicator for the presence of hydrocarbon reservoirs. Local maxima and minima of relatively low frequencies 0 to 20 Hz in the seismic data spectral ratios may be used as an indicator for hydrocarbon reservoirs.

Low impact survey methods like passive seismic data acquisition may be used for reconnaissance in frontier exploration areas to monitor reservoirs over the productive life of a field or to cost effectively upgrade data room information to generate higher license bids. Specific applications for passive seismic data include monitoring fluid flow estimating shear wave velocities site zonation and shear wave amplification studies for earthquake hazard surveys monitoring hydraulic fracturing during reservoir stimulation and inversion for earth structure.

Passive seismic data acquisition methods rely on seismic energy from sources not directly associated with the data acquisition. In passive seismic monitoring there is no actively controlled and triggered source. Examples of sources recorded that may be recorded with passive seismic acquisition are microseisms e.g. rhythmically and persistently recurring low energy earth tremors microtremors and other ambient or localized seismic energy sources.

Microtremors are attributed to the background energy present in the earth that may be due to non seismic sources. Microtremor seismic waves may include sustained seismic signals within a limited frequency range. Microtremor signals like all seismic waves contain information affecting spectral signature characteristics due to the media or environment that the seismic waves traverse. These naturally occurring relatively low frequency background seismic waves sometimes termed noise or hum of the earth may be generated from a variety of sources some of which may be indeterminate.

Survey results from passive seismic surveying demonstrate that the spectral characteristics of microtremor seismic waves often contain relevant information for direct hydrocarbon detection. These frequencies are below the sound audible to humans and nominally include frequencies under 20 Hz.

Direct hydrocarbon reservoir indicators may be extracted using spectral analysis of microtremors. Microtremor analysis provides a method for identification and mapping of fluid reservoirs or reservoir related parameters directly from data acquired near the earth s surface in land and marine areas using naturally occurring seismic background waves. Collected over time these data highlight changes in reservoir parameters.

Microtremor analysis allows for direct determination of a hydrocarbon reservoir independent of the reservoir structure. Additionally the thickness of strata associated with a hydrocarbon reservoir may be determined or inferred from microtremor analysis.

One or more sensors are used to measure vertical and horizontal components of motion due to background seismic waves at multiple locations within a survey area. These components may be measured separately or in combination and may be recorded as signals representing displacement velocity and or acceleration.

The sensors may measure the components of motion simultaneously or asynchronously. As the spectra and the spectral ratios of the acquired signal for any location may be quite stable over time the components of motion do not need to be measured simultaneously. This may be especially applicable in areas with relatively low local ambient noise and for data acquired over relatively short time periods e.g. a few weeks . Spectra determined from asynchronous components at a location may be used as it is the relative difference of spectral components as opposed to specific contemporaneous differences that may be indicative of reservoir characteristics.

Geophysical survey local conditions may affect a method s results. In many cases the spectra based methods provide reliable direct hydrocarbon indicators in other cases a skilled operator can use the results to improve their interpretation of other geological and geophysical data and generate an improved subsurface model allowing for more efficient exploration and production decisions.

The sensor equipment for measuring seismic waves may be any type of seismometer. Seismometer equipment having a large dynamic range and enhanced sensitivity compared with other transducers may provide the best results e.g. multicomponent earthquake seismometers . A number of commercially available sensors utilizing different technologies may be used e.g. a balanced force feed back instrument or an electrochemical sensor. An instrument with high sensitivity at very low frequencies and good coupling with the earth enhances the efficacy of the method.

Ambient noise conditions representative of seismic waves that may have not traversed subsurface reservoirs can negatively affect the recorded data. Techniques for removing unwanted artifacts and artificial signals from the data such as cultural and industrial noise are important for applying this method successfully in areas where there is high ambient noise.

Embodiments of the present procedures have several advantages over conventional seismic data acquisition for exploration including that the techniques do not require an artificial seismic source such as an explosion mechanically generated vibration or electric current. Additionally the results from spectral analysis are repeatable and the results may be correlated to hydrocarbon accumulations. There is little or no environmental impact due to data acquisition. The method is applicable for land transition zones and marine areas. The method has application in areas where higher frequencies are greatly affected by geological conditions e.g. in areas where soft soil layers attenuate high frequency seismic signals or salt formations scatter higher frequencies.

The vector data may be divided into time windows for processing. Window lengths may be between half a minute and an hour. Alternatively window lengths may be greater than ten times the period of the lowest frequency of interest. For example if the frequency of interest has a period around 7 seconds all the windows may be at least 70 seconds long. However the length of time windows for analysis may be chosen to accommodate processing or operational concerns.

A data transform may be applied to decompose data into spectral components. Seismic data frequency content varies with time. Time frequency decomposition spectral decomposition of a seismic signal enables analysis and characterization of the signal time dependent frequency response due to subsurface materials and reservoir parameters.

Various data transformations or decompositions are useful for time frequency analysis of seismic signals such as continuous or discrete Fourier or wavelet transforms. Examples include without limitation the classic Fourier transform or one of the many continuous Wavelet transforms CWT or discreet Wavelet transforms. Examples of other transforms include Haar transforms Haademard transforms and wavelet transforms. The Morlet wavelet is an example of a wavelet transform that may be applied to seismic data. Wavelet transforms have the attractive property that the corresponding expansion may be differentiable term by term when the seismic trace is smooth. Additionally signal analysis filtering and suppressing unwanted signal artifacts may be carried out efficiently using transforms applied to the acquired data signals.

One or more orthogonal components of the acquired data may be merged for example the horizontal data components . Horizontal components Ve and Vn may be merged by any of several ways including a root mean square average so that horizontal component H may be defined as H square root over V V 2 . Whether merging data components is undertaken before or after a data transform is applied to the data is a matter of choice.

Additionally the spectra may be smoothed using a moving average . The smoothing parameter defines how many values to input for calculating an averaged value. A large smoothing parameter leads to strong smoothing and a small smoothing parameter leads to less smoothing. Examples of the number of values for a smoothing parameter may range between 10 and 500 but will be case dependent. A smoothing parameter for a flow may be selected at the beginning of a processing flow for application prior to calculating a spectral ratio.

A local maximum and at least one local minimum is selected based on the data frequency spectrum see . The horizontal component may be a combination of the measured horizontal components as in . These spectra may be averaged over time windows . Averaging over time windows may be by arithmetic mean or geometric mean. The frequency product values may be filtered or selected for inclusion into a map or display data set by whether the values are above a lower threshold and below a higher threshold see . The results after this processing may be output in a form for mapping or other display. Maps of this frequency product output for selected frequencies usually where values cluster together where peaks approach the higher threshold see in may provide direct indications of the geographical extent of hydrocarbon reservoirs in the field survey vicinity.

All the frequency ratio pairs f r may be plotted together to form an autonormalized survey spectrum as illustrated in . The autonormalized spectrum illustrated in is a combination of frequency products or ratio peaks frequency ratio pairs that naturally separate into broadening peak areas that may tend to separate into generalized zones. Where these values cluster may be termed broad peaks. A line on the chart represents a lower ratio threshold with a nearly random distribution of peaks the line. Typical values for this lower line will be survey dependent. Line in represents a higher ratio threshold above which values may be ignored recalculated or replaced. Values between these lower and higher selected thresholds particular the broad peaks may be analyzed and sorted depending on their broadening relative to neighboring frequencies on their frequency and other consideration related to data analysis correlation length duration etc. .

Area at approximately 1.6 Hz and at approximately 2.6 Hz of are examples of broad peaks. Once a broad peak is selected all or a subset of the points associated with the frequency and frequency product values f r maybe plotted on a map. Plotting and interpolating these amplitude values and their derivatives typically minima maxima averages and others produces a map that may illustrate trends associated with subsurface features or conditions.

As needed the data may be rotated to any desired reference frame. A reference frame where the vertical vector direction is normal to the geoid may be beneficial for subsequent processing. The spectra may be smoothed for example with a moving average function. The data may be decomposed into spectral components by Fourier or Wavelet transform.

Local maxima and minima are determined in the frequency spectrum . The frequency product for a frequency is determined using a local maximum and a local minimum . The frequency product values may be filtered or selected for inclusion into a map or display by whether the values are above a lower threshold and below a higher threshold. The frequency product is then stored in a form for display and or formed into a map. A map created with the frequency product in frequency ranges where the values peak near a selected higher threshold may give a direct indication of the geographical extent of subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs. Values between lower and higher selected thresholds may then be analyzed sorted and plotted depending on parameters as outlined above.

In an alternative embodiment passively acquired seismic data as input are divided into time windows a Fast Fourier Transform FFT or other transform is applied to each component orthogonal components are merged to obtain one component the data are be smoothed a spectral ratio is calculated and the spectra are averaged over discrete time ranges within time windows. The frequency data covers the frequency range of interest e.g. from 0 to 20 Hz by smoothed or equally spaced values. Example 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 . . . 19.9 20 values in Hz . This alternative embodiment may be combined with methods illustrated in and .

A normalised ratio is extracted for each selected peak as follows In a frequency interval defined below 20 Hz spectral peaks and their maximum amplitude VMaxas illustrated in are selected. Then VMaxis multiplied by a function of one or both adjacent local minimums VLand VR for example a multiplication by the inverse of the average of both values such as the function f n 2 VL VR . The frequency of the peak and the result of this multiplication VMax f n produce a pair f r that can be plotted in a 2D chart. These pairs form the autonormalised campaign spectrum and may be displayed for further analysis as illustrated in the example of . Additionally more than one maximum VMaxmay be combined together to calculate a ratio.

This autonormalised spectrum is a combination of peaks with various broadening that separate themselves above a so called lower ratio threshold e.g. of where values are nearly randomly distributed. Very high values above a so called higher ratio threshold e.g. of may be ignored recalculated or replaced by this threshold.

Peaks appearing between these two thresholds and can be analyzed sorted and or selected depending on their broadening on their frequency and on other processing considerations related to data analysis e.g. correlation length duration etc. . A cut off a higher ratio threshold may be applied or re adjusted after continued analysis. Once a broad peak in a spectrum is selected all associated points may be localised on a map and define a certain amplitude at a defined locations of the campaign. Plotting and interpolating these amplitudes or related functions of these amplitudes typically minimum maximum average produces a maps and related data. For example one map per selected peak over a survey or campaign area may be displayed.

So to summarize one embodiment a campaign spectrum is produced by combining the acquired data sorting into block of selected time periods applying a transform and optionally smoothing the spectra extracting the normalised ratio for a selected peak and displaying the ratio versus frequency data for the peaks selected for analysis . Relevant peaks and amplitudes are identified by a lower threshold and upper threshold that are selected. The broad peaks selected from these results are selected for mapping associated frequency ratio pair data by location. Frequency pair ratio data above the higher threshold may be cut off deleted or recalculated . Alternatively the higher ratio threshold may be readjusted. Maps may be displayed for each selected peak. An example of a map is for an average ratio for VMax VL VR 2 a various frequencies plotted for an acquisition campaign.

While data may be acquired with multi component earthquake seismometer equipment with large dynamic range and enhanced sensitivity many different types of sensor instruments can be used with different underlying technologies and varying sensitivities. Sensor positioning during recording may vary e.g. sensors may be positioned on the ground below the surface or in a borehole. The sensor may be positioned on a tripod or rock pad. Sensors may be enclosed in a protective housing for ocean bottom placement. Wherever sensors are positioned good coupling results in better data. Recording time may vary e.g. from minutes to hours or days. In general terms longer term measurements may be helpful in areas where there is high ambient noise and provide extended periods of data with fewer noise problems.

The layout of a survey may be varied e.g. measurement locations may be close together or spaced widely apart and different locations may be occupied for acquiring measurements consecutively or simultaneously. Simultaneous recording of a plurality of locations may provide for relative consistency in environmental conditions that may be helpful in ameliorating problematic or localized ambient noise not related to subsurface characteristics.

The products as defined herein may be particularly adapted for use in what are termed information handling system. An information handling system is any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities primarily designed to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest measure detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. Examples include personal computers and larger processors such as servers mainframes etc and may contain elements illustrated in .

Embodiments may be practiced with various computer or information handling system configurations that separately or in combination may include hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network computers minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may be practiced with tasks performed in and over distributed computing environments that include remote processing devices linked through a communications network. Program modules operating in distributed computing environments may be located in various memory locations both local and remote.

While one processing unit is illustrated in there may be a single central processing unit CPU or a graphics processing unit GPU or both or a plurality of processing units. Computer may be a standalone computer a distributed computer or any other type of computer.

System memory includes read only memory ROM with a basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. System memory of computer further includes random access memory RAM that may include an operating system OS an application program and data .

Computer may include a disk drive to enable reading from and writing to an associated computer or machine readable medium . Computer readable media includes application programs and program data .

For example computer readable medium may include programs to process seismic data which may be stored as program data according to the methods disclosed herein. The application program associated with the computer readable medium includes at least one application interface for receiving and or processing program data . The program data may include seismic data acquired according to embodiments disclosed herein. At least one application interface may be associated with calculating a ratio of data components which may be spectral components for locating subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs.

The disk drive may be a hard disk drive for a hard drive e.g. magnetic disk or a drive for a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic media or an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD or other optical media.

Disk drive whether a hard disk drive magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is connected to the system bus by a disk drive interface not shown . The drive and associated computer readable media enable nonvolatile storage and retrieval for one or more application programs and data that include computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Any type of computer readable media that can store data accessible by a computer including but not limited to cassettes flash memory digital video disks in all formats random access memories RAMs read only memories ROMs may be used in a computer operating environment.

The application programs may be associated with one or more application program interfaces. An application programming interface API may be an interface that a computer system library or application provides in order to allow requests for services to be made of it by other computer programs and or to allow data to be exchanged between them. An API may also be a formalized set of software calls and routines that can be referenced by an application program in order to access supporting application programs or services which programs may be accessed over a network .

APIs are provided that allow for higher level programming for displaying and mapping subsurface reservoirs. For example APIs are provided for receiving seismic data and decomposing merging smoothing and averaging the data. Moreover the APIs allow for receiving the frequency product data and storing it for display.

Data input and output devices may be connected to the processing unit through a serial interface that is coupled to the system bus. Serial interface may a universal serial bus USB . A user may enter commands or data into computer through input devices connected to serial interface such as a keyboard and pointing device mouse . Other peripheral input output devices may include without limitation a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or fax speakers wireless transducer etc. Other interfaces not shown that may be connected to bus to enable input output to computer include a parallel port or a game port. Computers often include other peripheral input output devices that may be connected with serial interface such as a machine readable media e.g. a memory stick a printer and a data sensor . A seismic sensor or seismometer for practicing embodiments disclosed herein are nonlimiting examples of data sensor . A video display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT or other type of output display device may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . A map display created from spectral ratio values as disclosed herein may be displayed with video display .

A computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers. These logical connections are achieved by a communication device associated with computer . A remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network computer a workstation a client a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . However the designation of such networking environments whether LAN or WAN is often arbitrary as the functionalities may be substantially similar. These networks are common in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computer may be connected to a network through a network interface or adapter . Alternatively computer may include a modem or any other type of communications device for establishing communications over the network such as the Internet. Modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial interface .

In a networked deployment computer may operate in the capacity of a server or a client user machine in server client user network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In a networked environment program modules associated with computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. The network connections schematically illustrated are for example only and other communications devices for establishing a communications link between computers may be used.

In one embodiment a method of locating subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs includes acquiring seismic data dividing the seismic data into time windows decomposing the seismic data to obtain a data spectrum selecting a first local amplitude minimum of the data spectrum and an adjacent local amplitude maximum multiplying the local amplitude value maximum by a function of the local amplitude minimum to obtain a frequency product and recording the frequency product in a form for display.

In a further aspect the function of the local amplitude minimum may be an inverse of the first local amplitude minimum or an inverse of an average value of the local amplitude minimum combined with a second local amplitude minimum. Also a plurality of orthogonal components of the acquired seismic data may be merged to obtain a merged data component. The square root of the sum of the squares of the plurality of orthogonal components may be used to merged the data. The data spectrum may be smoothed or averaged over a plurality of time windows. The data may be displayed as a 2D or 3D map and the values may be contoured or otherwise formulated for areal display.

In another embodiment a method of locating subsurface hydrocarbon reservoirs includes acquiring seismic data having a plurality of orthogonal components dividing the seismic data into time windows decomposing the seismic data to obtain a data spectrum selecting a local amplitude maximum of the data spectrum and adjacent local amplitude minimums either side of the first local amplitude maximum multiplying the local amplitude value maximum by a function of at least one of the adjacent local amplitude minimums either side of the first local amplitude maximum to obtain a frequency product and recording and storing the frequency product data in a form for display.

In another aspect the function of the local amplitude minimum includes an inverse of an average of combined values of the adjacent local amplitude minimums. At least two of a plurality of orthogonal data components may be merged. Merging may include determining the square root of the sum of the squares of the plurality of components. The data spectrum may be smoothed or averaged over a plurality of time windows. The frequency product may be displayed as a map.

In still another embodiment a set of application program interfaces are embodied on a computer readable medium for execution by a processor for calculating a frequency product for locating subsurface reservoirs. The interfaces include a first interface that receives seismic data a second interface that receives data from a data transform applied to the seismic data to obtain a data spectrum a third interface that receives a frequency product that is a function of a local amplitude value maximum multiplied by a function of at least one of the adjacent local amplitude minimums either side of the local amplitude maximum to obtain a frequency product and a fourth interface that records the frequency product in a form for display.

A fifth interface may receive data wherein the seismic data are divided into time windows. The function of the local amplitude minimums for the third interface may include an inverse of an average of combined values of the adjacent local amplitude minimums. A sixth interface may receive a smoothed data spectrum. A seventh interface may receive data from the data spectrum averaged over a plurality of time windows. An eighth interface may receive merged orthogonal components of the seismic data.

In another embodiment a method of processing seismic data includes decomposing seismic data to obtain a spectral component over a selected frequency range. For the spectral component a local amplitude maximum and a first adjacent local amplitude minimum are selected. The local amplitude value maximum is multiplied by a function of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum to obtain a frequency ratio pair and recorded in a form for display.

The method may include selecting a lower ratio threshold and selecting a higher ratio threshold and selecting a broad peak frequency location of frequency ratio pair data between the lower and higher ratio thresholds. The frequency ratio pair for a selected frequency may be displayed as a map over an area associated with the seismic data. The method may include displaying a broad peak of frequency ratio pair data between the lower and higher ratio thresholds for a plurality of frequencies. The function of the local amplitude minimum may include an inverse of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum or an inverse of a combination of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum combined with a second adjacent local amplitude minimum. The spectral component may be determined by applying a data transform to a plurality of orthogonal components of motion for the naturally occurring low frequency background seismic data. Decomposing seismic data may include smoothing the data for the spectral component.

In another embodiment an information handling system for mapping an area associated with seismic data includes a processor configured to decompose seismic data to obtain a spectral component over a selected frequency range and is configured to multiply a local amplitude value maximum of the spectral component over a selected frequency range by a function of a first adjacent local amplitude minimum to obtain a frequency ratio pair. The system also includes a computer readable medium for storing the frequency ratio pair. The processor may be configured to determine the function of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum as an inverse of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum or an inverse of a combination of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum combined with a second adjacent local amplitude minimum. The system s processor may be configured to determine broad peak frequency location of frequency ratio pair data between a lower ratio threshold and a higher ratio threshold. A graphical display may be coupled to the processor and configured to present a view of the frequency ratio pair as a function of position wherein the processor is configured to generate the view by contouring the frequency ratio over an area associated with the seismic data.

In another embodiment as illustrated in and the block diagram of a set of application program interfaces associated with an application program for seismic data processing are embodied on a machine readable medium for execution by a processor in conjunction with an application program for processing seismic data. The interfaces include a first application program interface that receives frequency ratio data representative of a local amplitude value maximum of a spectral component of seismic data multiplied by a function of a first adjacent local amplitude minimum of the spectral component. A second application program interface receives the frequency ratio data to determine broad peak frequency location of frequency ratio pair data.

The set of application interface programs may also include a third application program interface that receives seismic data for a data transform to obtain a spectral component. The data transform may be a discrete Fourier transform a continuous Fourier transform a continuous wavelet transform or a discrete wavelet transform. The function of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum for the first application program interface may include an inverse of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum or an inverse of a combination of the first adjacent local amplitude minimum combined with a second adjacent local amplitude minimum. A fourth application program interface receives seismic data divided into time windows. A fifth application program interface receives a smoothed data spectrum. A sixth application program interface may receive data from the data spectrum averaged over a plurality of time windows. A seventh application program interface may receive the frequency ratio data for contouring in a form for display as a map.

While various embodiments have been shown and described various modifications and substitutions may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure herein. Accordingly it is to be understood that the present embodiments have been described by way of illustration and not limitation.

