---

title: Displaying comment data corresponding to a video presentation
abstract: Video presenting systems and methods are disclosed herein. In one embodiment, among others, a method comprises presenting a video presentation and enabling a viewer to select an option to receive a plurality of sequential data supplements. The sequential data supplements correspond to on-screen comments of the video presentation. In addition, the sequential data supplements have a plurality of respective time intervals corresponding to respective portions of the video presentation. The method further comprises receiving a first input from the viewer regarding selection of the option to receive the plurality of sequential data supplements. Responsive to receiving the first input corresponding to selecting the option to receive the plurality of sequential data supplements, the method includes providing the plurality of sequential data supplements at the plurality of respective times corresponding to respective portions of the video presentation. The on-screen comments include comments from another viewer and at least one set of comments selected from director comments, producer comments, and actor comments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707153&OS=08707153&RS=08707153
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08707153
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070226
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 693 780 filed Oct. 20 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 200 857 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 590 520 filed on Jun. 9 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 010 801 and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 214 987 filed on Jun. 29 2000 each of which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates in general to television systems and more particularly to the field of media on demand.

With recent advances in digital transmission technology cable television systems are now capable of providing much more than the traditional analog broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming the home communication terminal HCT otherwise known as the set top box has become an important computing device for accessing video services and navigating a subscriber through a maze of available services. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality digital HCTs or DHCTs now also support an increasing number of two way digital services such as video on demand.

Typically a DHCT is connected to a cable or satellite television network and includes hardware and software necessary to provide the functionality of the digital television system at the client s site. Preferably some of the software executed by a DHCT is downloaded and or updated via the cable television network. Each DHCT also typically includes a processor communication components and memory and is connected to a television or other display device such as a personal computer. While many conventional DHCTs are stand alone devices that are externally connected to a television a DHCT and or its functionality may be integrated into a television or personal computer as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

As the number of video on demand movie choices increases it is becoming increasingly important for video on demand providers to distinguish their video presentations by providing viewers with more options or features along with the video on demand presentations that will make the viewing experience more entertaining for the viewers. In addition many viewers today are interested in knowing more about the movies that they are watching but simply do not have enough free time to locate and read such information. Therefore there exists a need to make the video on demand viewing experience more informative and entertaining.

The DNCS provides complete management monitoring and control of the network s elements and broadcast services provided to users. In one implementation the DNCS uses a data insertion multiplexer and a data QAM to insert in band broadcast file system BFS data into an MPEG 2 transport stream that is broadcast and received via DHCT s communication interface and tuner system . The DNCS also contains a session manager that uses Digital Storage Media Command and Control DSMCC protocol to set up and maintain MOD sessions. The session manager processes user to network U N session signaling messages manages allocation of session related network resources supports network management operations acts as a point of contact to the network for the DHCT s in the network to establish individual sessions and supports MOD services by providing the signaling interface to establish maintain and release client initiated exclusive sessions.

A service application manager SAM server is a server component of a client server pair of components with the client component being located at the DHCT . Together the client server SAM components provide a system in which the user can access services which are identified by an application to run and a parameter such as particular data content specific to that service. The client server SAM components also manage the life cycle of the applications on the system including the definition activation and suspension of services they provide and the downloading of the applications into the DHCT as necessary. MPEG 2 transport may be used to multiplex video audio and data in digital transmission channels such as channels transmitted downstream employing quadrature amplitude modulation QAM . An MPEG 2 transport stream allows multiplexing of digital video digital audio and data. Multiple different video programs each with one or more digital video streams one or more digital audio streams and or multiple data streams can be multiplexed and transmitted over the same 6 MHz or 8 MHz RF frequency in which the DHCT s tuner tunes to. Hence a digital transmission channel can carry the video audio and data streams of programs of multiple television TV stations or on demand video programs.

Applications on both the headend and the DHCT can access the data stored in a broadcast file system BFS server in a similar manner to a file system found on operating systems. The BFS server is a part of a broadcast file system that has a counterpart BFS client module in a DHCT connected to the network . The BFS server repeatedly sends data for applications on a data carousel not shown over a period of time in cyclical repeated fashion so that a DHCT that is in need of reading any particular data file or parts thereof may receive it when requested by a user or one or more of its internal running processes.

A VOD content manager is responsible for managing the content on the VOD content servers . The MOD server application controls both the VOD content manager and the VOD content servers and utilizes them to help deliver the video and audio streams that make up VOD services. In one embodiment an MOD content manager and MOD content servers not shown could run respectively in parallel to the VOD content manager and VOD content servers to manage other types of on demand media content. In an alternate embodiment an MOD content manager replaces the VOD content manager and the MOD content servers replaces the VOD content servers . The QAM modulators that comprise the QAM group receive the MPEG 2 transport streams from the VOD content servers convert them into encrypted RF signals at a specified frequency channel and transmit them to a DHCT via the network .

The QPSK modem is responsible for transporting the out of band IP internet protocol datagram traffic between the distribution headend and a DHCT . Data from the QPSK modem is routed by headend router within the headend . The headend router is also responsible for delivering upstream application traffic to the various server applications .

The DHCT may also include one or more wireless or wired interfaces also called ports for receiving and or transmitting data to other devices. For instance the DHCT may feature USB Universal Serial Bus Ethernet for connection to a computer IEEE 1394 for connection to media devices in an entertainment center serial and or parallel ports. The user inputs may for example be provided by a computer or transmitter with buttons or keys located either on the exterior of the terminal or by a hand held remote control device or keyboard that includes user actuated buttons. In one implementation the DHCT includes system memory which includes flash memory and dynamic random access memory DRAM for storing various applications modules and data for execution and use by the processor . Basic functionality of the DHCT is provided by an operating system that is primarily stored in flash memory . Among other things the operating system includes at least one resource manager that provides an interface to resources of the DHCT such as for example computing resources.

An application referred to as navigator is also resident in flash memory for providing a navigation framework for services provided by the DHCT . The navigator registers for and in some cases reserves certain user inputs related to navigational keys such as channel increment decrement last channel favorite channel etc. The client applications may be resident in flash memory or downloaded into DRAM . The navigator also provides users with television related menu options that correspond to DHCT functions such as for example providing an interactive program guide blocking a channel or a group of channels from being displayed in a channel menu and displaying a video on demand purchase list.

The flash memory also contains a platform library . The platform library is a collection of utilities useful to applications such as a timer manager a compression manager a configuration manager an HTML parser a database manager a widget toolkit a string manager and other utilities not shown . These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces APIs as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library that are shown in are a window manager and a service application manager client SAM .

The window manager provides a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the screen regions and user input. The window manager on the DHCT is responsible for as directed by one or more applications implementing the creation display and de allocation of the limited DHCT screen resources. It allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions or windows. The window manager also maintains among other things a user input registry in DRAM so that when a user enters a key or a command via the remote control device or another input device such as a keyboard or mouse the user input registry is accessed to determine which of various applications running on the DHCT should receive data corresponding to the input key and in which order. As an application is executed it registers a request to receive certain user input keys or commands. When the user presses a key corresponding to one of the commands on the remote control device the command is received by the receiver and relayed to the processor . The processor dispatches the event to the operating system where it is forwarded to the window manager which ultimately accesses the user input registry and routes data corresponding to the incoming command to the appropriate application.

The SAM client is a client component of a client server pair of components with the server component being located on the headend . A SAM database in DRAM includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Many services can be defined using the same application component with different parameters. Examples of services include without limitation and in accordance with one implementation presenting television programs available through a WatchTV application pay per view events available through a PPV application digital music not shown media on demand available through an MOD application and an interactive program guide. In general the identification of a service includes the identification of an executable application that provides the service along with a set of application dependent parameters that indicate to the application the service to be provided. As a non limiting example a service of presenting a television program could be executed with a set of parameters to view HBO or with a separate set of parameters to view CNN. Each association of the application component tune video and one parameter component HBO or CNN represents a particular service that has a unique service I.D. The SAM client also interfaces with the resource manager as discussed below to control resources of the DHCT .

Application clients can also be downloaded into DRAM at the request of the SAM client typically in response to a request by the user or in response to a message from the headend. In this non limiting example DRAM contains a media on demand application MOD an e mail application and a web browser application among others not shown . It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for this present embodiment of the invention. Furthermore one or more DRAM based applications may as an alternative embodiment be resident in flash memory . These applications and others provided by the cable system operator are top level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.

In one implementation applications executing on the DHCT work with the navigator by abiding by several guidelines. First an application utilizes the SAM client for the provision activation and suspension of services. Second an application shares DHCT resources with other applications and abides by the resource management policies of the SAM client the operating system and the DHCT . Third an application handles situations where resources are only available with navigator intervention. Fourth when an application loses service authorization while providing a service the application suspends the service via the SAM the navigator will reactivate an individual service application when it later becomes authorized . Finally an application client is designed to not have access to certain user input keys reserved by the navigator i.e. power channel volume etc. .

The MOD client application provides the user with lists of available media titles to choose from and with video presentations requested by the user. The MOD client application provides video presentations to the user by engaging preferably in a direct two way IP Internet Protocol connection with VOD content servers .

The DHCT includes demultiplexing system comprising functionality for QAM demodulation forward error correction FEC transport demultiplexing and parsing. Transport demultiplexing may include MPEG 2 transport demultiplexing. The DHCT also includes a digital video decoding system a digital audio decoding system a display output system such as RF output system an audio player and output system that can feed audio samples to RF output system and a processor .

The demultiplexing system in communication with communication interface tuner system and processor effects reception of compressed video streams compressed audio streams and data streams corresponding to a first video program to be separated from other programs and or streams transported in the tuned transmission channel and to be stored in a first part of DRAM of DHCT assigned to receive packets of a first video program.

The demultiplexing system in communication with the digital video decoding system and processor effect notification and or transfer of received packets of one or more compressed video streams corresponding to a first video program from a first part of DRAM to a second part of DRAM assigned to digital video decoding system .

The demultiplexing system in communication with the digital audio decoding system and processor effects notification and or transfer of received packets of one or more compressed audio streams corresponding to a first video program from a first part of DRAM to a third part of DRAM assigned to digital audio decoding system .

The demultiplexing system in communication with processor and or other data parsing and interpretation device not shown in DHCT effects notification and or transfer of received packets of one or more data streams corresponding to a first video program from a first part of DRAM to a fourth part of DRAM assigned for reception of data affiliated with a first video program.

The digital video decoding system reads compressed video stored in a second part of DRAM assigned to digital video decoding system and effects decompression and reconstruction of compressed digital video streams into an assigned fifth part of DRAM and in communication with the display output system such as RF output system effects presentation of video pictures in television .

The digital audio decoding system reads compressed audio stored in a third part of DRAM assigned to the digital audio decoding system and effects decompression and reconstruction of compressed digital audio streams into an assigned sixth part of DRAM and in communication with the audio player and output system effects presentation of audio sample to television and or other audio output interfaces not shown in DHCT .

An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system OS component or to a client platform component or to a client application or to respective parts thereof can reside in and execute out of DRAM and or flash memory . Likewise data inputted into or outputted from any executable program can reside in DRAM or flash memory . Furthermore an executable program or algorithm corresponding to an OS component or to a client platform component or to a client application or to respective parts thereof can reside in flash memory or in a local storage device connected to DHCT and can be transferred into DRAM for execution. Likewise data input for an executable program can reside in flash memory or a storage device and can be transferred into DRAM for use by an executable program or algorithm. In addition data outputted by an executable program can be written into DRAM by an executable program or algorithm and can be transferred into flash memory or into a storage device for storage purposes. The present invention is not limited by where or how data and or applications are stored or retrieved.

Each of the above mentioned applications comprises executable instructions for implementing logical functions and can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner and then stored in a computer memory.

With continued reference to A and throughout the remaining figures depicts an example VOD rental selection window . As with other window examples discussed below processor executes program instructions of MOD client application that cause it to direct the window manager to create window via display data that is formatted for television . Processor stores the display data or parts thereof in DRAM as necessary and transfers the display data to a display output system such as RF output system wherein display data is converted to respective television signals and transmitted to television . Of course the scope of the invention also includes any other method of causing the described windows to appear to the user.

A user may utilize the rental selection window in order to request a video on demand rental. Top portion of example window typically contains one or more headings while the bottom portion typically illustrates relevant navigation buttons available on the remote control device . Video rental list contains the titles of video presentations such as video title that are available for rent as well as a highlighted title area .

A user may scroll through the video rental list using the up and down arrow buttons on the remote control device and may request a currently highlighted video title by activating the select button . For example a user may activate the down arrow button on the remote control device until the selection You ve Got Mail is displayed in the highlighted title area and then request to see the video titled You ve Got Mail by activating the select button . In an alternative embodiment activating the up and down arrow buttons on the remote control device results in the shifting of the highlighted title area rather that the shifting of the video titles at least until the top or bottom video titles are reached . A reduced screen area displays an image corresponding to the video title displayed in the highlighted title area . As the user scrolls through the video rental list the image displayed in the reduced screen area changes accordingly. Without any limitation to other scrolling and selection forms the scrolling and selection mechanism described above is similarly applicable to other lists and windows herein.

Information supplements such as pop up comments settings may include comments from the director the producer actors critics or other viewers that are displayed at designated time intervals of the on demand media presentation simultaneously with the on demand media presentation.

Information supplements comprise media such as textual graphical video or audio information each to be presented as a single supplement or as a combined set of supplements with the VOD presentation. Information supplements comprise a specification of start time and duration interval in relation to the start of the on demand title for which they are presented to the user or in relation to some other accessible starting point of the on demand title such as a chapter. Herein such specification is referred to as the active time interval of the information supplement. An information supplement may exhibit one or more active time interval specifications during the course of the VOD title presentation. The time interval specification enables an information supplement to be presented to the user in a time synchronized fashion.

Information supplements also comprise other specifications such as screen positioning relative to the picture display of the on demand title enabling a supplement s respective presentation to overlay the picture display in a predetermined manner to minimize occlusion of the picture.

Popup alerts are optional graphical supplements such as arrows that point attention to inconspicuous parts of the on demand video picture presentation. They possess active time interval and screen location specifications.

Auditory alerts are optional supplements that are mixed with the audio of the on demand video program and possess active time interval designation of one or more speaker channels for which to mix the audio supplement and volume specification.

Multiple video views are optional supplements that provide different camera angles of the media presentation. Their presentation is accomplished with a split picture display presentation or a picture in picture PIP presentation. The specification for a multi video view supplement comprises an active time interval a screen position and whether the presentation is effected as a split screen or PIP supplement.

Advertisement pop ups are optional supplements that enable the user to receive product information during the on demand video presentation in exchange for a lower rental fee. The advertisements may be specific to products inherent during the course of the on demand movie such as a watch worn by a leading actor. Furthermore the advertisement supplement s active time interval may be concurrent to the time in the movie that the leading actor reads the time on the watch.

Upon a user setting an optional request for one or more information supplements the MOD client application initiates processor to enable data streams carrying information supplements corresponding to an on demand video program to be received by demultiplexing system to be transferred to the fourth part of DRAM assigned for reception of data. Supplementary textual or graphical data is then decoded parsed and interpreted by processor and or other data parsing and interpretation device not shown in DHCT and transferred into a graphics display buffer as graphics data.

Alternatively if the supplementary data or parts thereof comprise a digital audio component it is decoded by a first digital audio decoding system or a second digital audio decoding system not shown and the supplementary audio is transferred to an assigned Pulse Code Modulation PCM audio buffer in DRAM . The audio player and output system effects mixing of the supplementary audio stored in the PCM buffer with the designated audio channel of the reconstructed digital audio of the on demand video program stored in the sixth part of DRAM .

Alternatively if the supplementary data or parts thereof comprise a digital video component it is received as a video stream of the on demand video program and processed in DHCT as described above each processing operation is performed by an aforementioned first processing component in DHCT respectively or a similar second processing component in DHCT not shown .

A supplementary video picture may be decompressed by digital video decoding system and scaled down as it is being reconstructed in a procedural fashion with video scaling unit to effect a picture in picture presentation. The scaled down reconstructed picture can be stored in a scaled video picture buffer in DRAM . Simultaneous display of the on demand video picture with a supplementary scaled down video picture can be constructed with supplementary graphical and textual information stored in graphics display buffer .

Downscaled video pictures overlay on demand video presentation by the composition capabilities of DHCT not shown and positioned likely at a corner of screen as specified by the information supplement specification and only visible during the respective specified active time interval.

Graphical and textual data corresponding to a pop up supplement overlay the on demand video presentation on designated screen location per their respective specification and are only visible during their respective specified active time interval

The DHCT has an internal clock and timers that enable computation of the time relationship between its internal clock and clock specified by digital video program. Hence by reading and interpreting the clock and time stamps specifications intrinsic in the digital video program for example as provisioned in MPEG 2 DHCT can effect an output as a synchronized presentation to the user that includes the reconstructed on demand video pictures the reconstructed digital audio samples and supplementary information.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of the implementations merely setting forth a clear understanding of the principles of the inventions. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit of the principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and present invention and protected by the following claims.

