---

title: Ultrasonic stir welding process and apparatus
abstract: An ultrasonic stir welding device provides a method and apparatus for elevating the temperature of a work piece utilizing at least one ultrasonic heater. Instead of relying on a rotating shoulder to provide heat to a workpiece an ultrasonic heater is utilized to provide ultrasonic energy to the workpiece. A rotating pin driven by a motor assembly performs the weld on the workpiece. A handheld version can be constructed as well as a fixedly mounted embodiment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07568608&OS=07568608&RS=07568608
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07568608
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070129
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 525 110 filed Nov. 25 2003. This application is a divisional application from Ultrasonic Stir Welding Process and Apparatus application Ser. No. 10 928 877 filed Aug. 20 2004 now abandoned.

This invention was made by an employee of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or thereof.

The present invention is directed to an ultrasonic stir welding device and method and more particularly to a method and device for welding utilizing ultrasonic frequency to provide heat to at least assist in plasticizing a work piece with a stir welding process.

The general concept of friction stir welding is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 460 317. Conventional friction stir welding is a process of welding component parts together using frictional heat generated by a non consumable tool to join work piece sections. The tool includes a pin that is inserted into the joint and a shoulder that is urged against an upper surface of the work piece. The pin and shoulder rotate dependently or as a single entity to generate friction needed to create a plasticized region along the joint for the welding operation.

In the traditional friction stir welding process a pin tool consisting of a rotating shoulder rotating pin and high forces are utilized to join material together. The rotating shoulder in combination with high forces produces much of the heat utilized to bring the materials into the plastic state. Having the materials in the plastic state is a requirement for successful solid state joining. Normally the conventional friction stir welding process requires expensive reactive tooling and fixturing. Also since the shoulder is coupled to the pin in the known friction stir welding technology 1 the rpm of the pin tool controls the performance of the coupled pin tool and shoulder as well as 2 the pressure of the shoulder against the workpiece are key variables which affect welding performance.

Accordingly there exists a need for a tool and method for performing stir welding which need not rely primarily on a single unique rpm or rate of revolution to control the coupled stir pin and shoulder shoulder pressure and heat input.

An object of the present invention is to provide heating during stir welding utilizing ultrasonic technology.

Another object of the present invention is to provide high frequency rubbing to generate energy to bring material into the plastic state.

Another object of the present invention is to reduce the necessity for rotating shoulders requiring expensive reactive tooling to withstand high load rotating conditions in stir welding techniques.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide independently controlled heating and pin tool stirring operations.

Accordingly a new method and tool for ultrasonic stir welding is provided. The tool includes the use of an ultrasonic heating pack a rotating pin and a rotating pin motor. The ultrasonic heating pack or heater preferably heats the material to the plastic state and the rotating pin is utilized in combination with the ultrasonic heat pack i.e. such as before and or after and or in combination with a rotating pin to weld the material. A second ultrasonic device can also be used to generate ultrasonic energy to heat an opposite side of the weld piece from the direction of insertion of the pin tool in some embodiments.

In conventional stir welding a rotating shoulder would rotate and impart heat to a work piece . While the shoulder illustrated certainly is capable of rotating in the alternative embodiments it is more preferable that ultrasonic heater having a non rotating shoulder thereon be utilized to generate the energy to impart heat to the work piece .

Initial testing has indicated that an ultrasonic stir weld process utilizing an ultrasonic heater produces a metallurgical bond without melting the base metal. The basic heating mechanism in ultrasonic stir welding is high intensity vibrational energy imparted through the ultrasonic heater . High frequency electrical energy is received and or generated by the ultrasonic heater and converted into mechanical vibration having ultrasonic frequencies. A coupler or a containment plate is useful in transmitting the vibration to the work piece while providing a shoulder to contact an upper surface of the work piece .

The tool preferably comprises a rotating pin ultrasonic heater and a motor assembly having a rotating pin motor as a component thereof. The pin preferably has the capability to retract into a containment plate as shown in the ultrasonic heater as shown in or other appropriate component of a tool the embodiment of embodiment of .

In the pin is shown extending through at least a portion of the ultrasonic heater and more preferably through the center of the ultrasonic heater . The pin has a distal end which extends distally of the shoulder . The pin is located at distal end of the shaft and may be integrally machined thereon removably connected thereto or otherwise connected. The motor assembly also receives the shaft through a center portion of the motor assembly or at least sufficiently enough so that the shaft may be rotatably driven about the rotation axis by the motor assembly . Furthermore the motor assembly may provide the necessary mechanical equipment to withdraw or retract the pin from a work piece such as by retraction into the ultrasonic heater the containment plate shown in or other appropriate structure.

The containment plate restrains the work piece such as members and any plastic or other material as the rotating pin during operation stirs the surfaces during the welding process and constrains plastic or other material during the welding process. While the ultrasonic heater shown is an integral part of the tool in the embodiments of in the embodiment of the ultrasonic heater may be adjacent or even spaced relative to the pin as shown. In the embodiment of the ultrasonic heater may act as a pre heater or a post heater. In the embodiment of tool shown in the containment plate is helpful to contain stirred material such as work piece displaced by pin as the material is stirred. As shown in the ultrasonic heater can be used to heat the material prior to being stirred with the rotating pin .

The ultrasonic heater can be the same type heaters utilized in ultrasonic welding. Ultrasonic vibration is typically generated with a transducer and vibration is typically transmitted through a coupling system or sonotrode. Accordingly the heater is used to transmit vibrational energy into the work piece . The frequencies normally utilized with ultrasonic heaters are usually in the range of 10 to 75 kilohertz. Often one or more transducers convert high frequency electrical energy into mechanical vibratory energy of the same frequency. This vibration energy is transmitted through the sonotrode into the work piece. A localized temperature rise is believed to be experienced from the combined effects of elastic hysteresis localized interfacial slip and plastic deformation.

As shown in the ultrasonic heater could be integrated with the pin so that the pin vibrates with or independent of the shoulder during operation. In the ultrasonic heater can also be located after the rotating pin i.e. such as moving from leftwardly across the page as opposed to rightwardly across the page to provide additional heating or to enhance a design of a surface finish. Accordingly the ultrasonic heater can be utilized in various combinations such as before the rotating pin after the rotating pin and or in combination with the rotating pin and or proximate to the rotating pin .

The ultrasonic heater can also be utilized to ultrasonically weld the material before it is stirred with the rotating pin . As shown in an anvil can be equipped with a second ultrasonic heater to impart vibration to a back surface of a work piece to assist in the heating process. Other geometrical configurations can also be utilized to use ultrasonic energy to heat the work piece for different purposes and locations.

Coolant lines and electrical connection lines can be utilized to cool various portions of the tool and provide energy necessary to rotate the pin as well as displace it relative to the shoulder such as distally beyond the shoulder or proximal to the shoulder withdrawn internal to containment plate or farther . Coolant and electrical connection conductions may not be necessary in all embodiments. In fact by providing a significant source of energy such as a battery it is possible that a completely hand held device may be utilized and have advantageous applications such as applications in space or otherwise.

Furthermore just like a hand held type device is shown in the embodiment of the tool shown in other devices could also be utilized for other applications. A much sturdier unit with clamping and holding fixtures could be utilized for thicker materials such as greater than 0.1 inches thick. Portability could be desirous in some embodiments. Fixed in placed units could be utilized in an industrial setting or otherwise. The ultrasonic heaters can utilize rollers that vibrate and or heat using resistance heating or other mechanism in order to provide the ultrasonic frequency to the work pieces as illustrated. Additional rollers can be utilized in combination with the ultrasonic heaters .

The work pieces illustrated can also be preheated utilizing an induction coil or other ultrasonic heaters lasers etc. Preheating could be performed in series in parallel or otherwise with an ultrasonic heater which heats the respective work pieces before it is stirred by the respective pins.

By utilizing the ultrasonic heaters instead of relying solely on a rotating shoulder what is believed to be a high quality surface finish can be provided for NDE Non Destructive Examination processes. Furthermore by heating and stirring independently the resulting strain rate from a rotating pin and temperature can likely be controlled in such a way that super plastic material can be created and welded. There may be numerous commercial applications for the tool and method of utilizing a method of welding shown and described herein. Robotic application such as by providing a tool on a robotically controlled arm can be very advantageous in commercial applications.

Numerous alterations of the structure herein disclosed will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art. However it is to be understood that the present disclosure relates to the preferred embodiment of the invention which is for purposes of illustration only and not to be construed as a limitation of the invention. All such modifications which do not depart from the spirit of the invention are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

