---

title: Personalized audio controlled shopping information service for a mobile device
abstract: A device, system, and method are directed towards providing shopping information regarding an item over a network to a mobile device. A review of the item in at least one of a plurality of formats is received. A user is enabled to select at least a portion of the shopping information in one of a plurality of selectable formats based at least in part on a user input command at the mobile device. The review may is at least one selectable portion of the shopping information. A request for at least the portion of the shopping information for the item in a selected format is received from the mobile device associated with the user. Audio is at least one of the plurality of selectable formats. The requested portion of the shopping information in the selected format is provided to the mobile device, in response to the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244589&OS=08244589&RS=08244589
owner: 
number: 08244589
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070828
---
This application is a Utility Patent application based on a previously filed U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 823 892 filed on Aug. 29 2006 the benefit of which is hereby claimed under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

The present invention relates generally to mobile search and more particularly but not exclusively to providing shopping information over a network.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the present invention may be embodied as methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may. Furthermore the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment although it may. Thus as described below various embodiments of the invention may be readily combined without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

In addition as used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. In addition throughout the specification the meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. As used herein the terms device input or user input refer to a user input command at a device.

Briefly the present invention is directed to a device system and method for providing shopping information regarding an item over a network to a mobile device. The item may comprise a product a service or the like. A review of the item in at least one of a plurality of formats is received. A user is enabled to select at least a portion of the shopping information in one of a plurality of selectable formats based at least in part on a user input command at the mobile device. The review may is at least one selectable portion of the shopping information. A request for at least the portion of the shopping information for the item in a selected format is received from the mobile device associated with the user. Audio is at least one of the plurality of selectable formats. The requested portion of the shopping information in the selected format is provided to the mobile device in response to the request.

More specifically the present invention is directed to providing shopping information over a network. The shopping information may be provided from a server to a client over a network or the like. In one embodiment at a server a mapping between a key input and a shopping data is received. The mapping may be associated with a user group of users categories of users or the like. An activation of the key input may be transmitted over the network from the client to the server. In response to a request the generated audio based shopping information may be sent from the server to the client over the network. As used herein audio data or audio based data refer to data for producing a human voice alarm tone music noise or the like.

Shopping information may also include an audio advertisement. In one embodiment the audio advertisement may be generated based on mapping user information onto a template. At a client the audio advertisement may be received wherein the audio advertisement provides a prompt indication for accessing shopping information. A device input associated with the prompt may also be received at the client and or sent to the server. Other shopping information such as a product review or the like associated with the advertisement may also be provided based on the device input over the network or the like.

A user may be enabled to control a client to receive shopping information. In one embodiment at a client a user may be enabled to navigate a shopping hierarchy based on the user s input wherein the user s input comprises at least one of a Universal Product Code UPC entry a spelling entry a key input a barcode entry spoken entry or the like. As used herein shopping hierarchy refers to any information structure for representing items in a hierarchical manner e.g. trees hash tables linked lists or the like . Branches of a shopping hierarchy refers to a relationship between at least one entity and at least another in the hierarchy.

A user may also define a preference of particular types of shopping information the user wishes to receive. In one embodiment a server may provide shopping information to a client based at least on a preference indicated in a user profile or a profile associated with members of the social network to which the user belongs.

A user may be enabled to select user preferences including a voice and or audio data to be used in providing shopping information. In one embodiment a server generates a user profile comprising one or more user preferences usable for generating customized audio based shopping information to be sent over the network to a client associated with the user. The server may enable the user to select a voice from a plurality of different available voices for the audio based shopping information. The selected voice may be included in the user profile. The plurality of voices used may be differentiated by gender nationality language locale e.g. Spanish German Thai Japanese age culture genre or the like.

A web and or audio advertising mix may be provided based on a user preference. In one embodiment a server may receive from a user information usable to generate audio based shopping information that is customized for the user. The server may provide the customized audio based shopping information over the network to a client associated with the user. The amount of audio advertisements included in the audio based shopping information may be determined based on a subscription level of the user.

Shopping information may include audio based reviews of a product or service. In one embodiment a server may receive from a user an audio based review of a product or service. The server may generate based on the received audio based review a text based review. The server may provide shopping information over the network to a client based on the text based review. In one embodiment the server may generate an audio based shopping information based on a text based review. The audio based review may be determined based on a location in a shopping hierarchy demographic location which is enabled e.g. navigated to by the client.

As described herein the invention may be embodied in a processor readable medium method system and apparatus or the like. As used herein client may include any computing device in communication with a network including a mobile device a personal computer an embedded device a cellular telephone VoIP phone land line phone like a payphone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer smart phone sidekick blackberry or the like.

One embodiment of mobile devices is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Generally however mobile devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as network wireless network or the like. Mobile devices may also be described generally as client devices that are configured to be portable. Thus mobile devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of connecting to another computing device and receiving information. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. As such mobile devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled mobile device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed.

A web enabled mobile device may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages and the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML AJAX CSS eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message.

Mobile devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive content from another computing device. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content audio content and the like. The client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name and the like. In one embodiment mobile devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Caller ID SIM card ID manually entered PIN username user ID password MAC address IPv6 address Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN or other mobile device identifier. The information may also indicate a content format that the mobile device is enabled to employ. Such information may be provided in a message or the like sent to shopping information server client device or other computing devices. Moreover mobile devices may further provide information associated with its physical location to another computing device.

Mobile devices may also be configured to communicate a message such as through Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC Mardam Bey s IRC mIRC Jabber AOL AIM MSN GoogleTalk Skype Vonage Email and the like between another computing device such as shopping information server client device or the like. However the present invention is not limited to these message protocols and virtually any other message protocol may be employed.

Mobile devices may be further configured to enable a user to participate in communications sessions such as IM sessions. As such mobile devices may include a client application that is configured to manage various actions on behalf of the client device. For example the client application may enable a user to interact with the browser application email application IM applications SMS application and the like.

Mobile devices may further be configured to include a client application that enables the end user to log into an end user account that may be managed by another computing device such as shopping information server . Such end user account for example may be configured to enable the end user to receive emails send receive IM messages SMS messages access selected web pages participate in a social networking activity or the like. Mobile devices may also communicate with non mobile client devices such as client device or the like.

Client device may include virtually any computing device capable of communicating over a network to send and receive information including social networking information or the like. The set of such devices may include devices that typically connect using a wired or wireless communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. Moreover client device although representing a computing device that is non mobile may be configured to perform many of the actions described above for mobile devices . In addition in at least one embodiment client device may also provide information such as a MAC address IP address GPS coordinates latitude longitude IPv6 address Unique Processor ID such as on Intel s CPUs or the like useable to determine its physical location.

Wireless network is configured to couple mobile devices and its components with network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for mobile devices . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like.

Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links and the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G generation radio access for cellular systems EDGE VoIP 802.11 a b g WiMax WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh networks and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as mobile devices with various degrees of mobility. For example wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA and the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between mobile devices and another computing device network and the like.

Network is configured to couple shopping information server and its components with other computing devices including mobile devices client device and through wireless network to mobile devices . Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media CAT5 CAT5e Fiber DSL Cable Modem A C power networks POTS Ethernet T1 Frame Relay or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In essence network includes any communication method by which information may travel between shopping information server client device and other computing devices.

Additionally communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave data signal or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The terms modulated data signal and carrier wave signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information instructions data and the like in the signal. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

One embodiment of shopping information server is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Devices that may operate as shopping information server include personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers and the like. Although illustrates shopping information server as a single computing device the invention is not so limited. For example one or more functions of shopping information server may be distributed across one or more distinct computing devices. In one embodiment shopping information server may be configured to perform the operations described in the processes of and or use table of .

Information services represents a variety of services devices that may provide additional information for use in generating reviews or other user information for use in the invention. Such services may include but are not limited to web services third party services and the like. Devices that may operate as information services include personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers and the like. For example information services may be an independent social networking system that stores preferences reviews and other information for a group of users. The information services may be accessible by the shopping information server through an application programming interface API or the like. Thus shopping information server may be configured to receive social networking information reviews and or other suitable third party information from the information services for providing shopping information across a network as described herein.

As shown in the figure mobile device includes a processing unit CPU in communication with a mass memory via a bus . Mobile device also includes a power supply one or more network interfaces an audio interface a display a keypad an illuminator an input output interface a haptic interface an optional global positioning systems GPS receiver and camera . Power supply provides power to mobile device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Mobile device may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computing device. Network interface includes circuitry for coupling mobile device to one or more networks and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax SIP RTP or any of a variety of other wireless communication protocols. Network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice alarms tones music noise or the like. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD Vacuum Florescent Display VFD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display used with a computing device. Display may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand.

Keypad may comprise any input device arranged to receive input from a user. For example keypad may include a push button numeric dial or a keyboard. Keypad may also include command buttons that are associated with selecting and sending images. Illuminator may provide a status indication and or provide light. Illuminator may remain active for specific periods of time or in response to events. For example when illuminator is active it may backlight the buttons on keypad and stay on while the client device is powered. Also illuminator may backlight these buttons in various patterns when particular actions are performed such as dialing another client device. Illuminator may also cause light sources positioned within a transparent or translucent case of the client device to illuminate in response to actions.

Mobile device also comprises input output interface for communicating with external devices such as a headset or other input or output devices not shown in . Input output interface can utilize one or more communication technologies such as USB infrared Bluetooth or the like. Haptic interface is arranged to provide tactile feedback to a user of the client device. For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate mobile device in a particular way when another user of a computing device is calling.

Camera is arranged to provide a still or moving image to the user and or to send or receive such image over network interface . In one embodiment camera may be a charged coupled device CCD digital camera or the like.

Optional GPS transceiver can determine the physical coordinates of mobile device on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS transceiver can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS E OTD CI SAI ETA BSS SIRF or the like to further determine the physical location of mobile device on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS transceiver can determine a physical location within millimeters for mobile device and in other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances. In one embodiment however mobile device may through other components provide other information that might be employed to determine a physical location of the device including for example a MAC address IP address Cellular Tower or the like.

Mass memory includes a RAM a ROM and other storage means. Mass memory illustrates another example of computer storage media for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Mass memory stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of mobile device . The mass memory also stores an operating system for controlling the operation of mobile device . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX including embedded LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile Palm OS or the Symbian operating system. The operating system may include or interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Memory further includes one or more data storage which can be utilized by mobile device to store among other things applications and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of mobile device . The information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like.

Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by mobile device transmit receive and or otherwise process messages e.g. SMS MMS IM email and or other messages audio video and enable telecommunication with another user of another client device. Other examples of application programs include calendars browsers including Web browsers RSS feed readers contact manager photo viewer video replay and recorder audio playback and recording such as MP3 camera email clients IM applications SMS applications VOIP applications contact managers task managers transcoders database programs word processing programs security applications spreadsheet programs games search programs and so forth.

Mobile device can be configured to participate in the methods discussed herein by receiving information from the network of via wireless network and or network interface or the like. The received information may be audio based in which case it can be output via audio interface . Alternatively the information may be text based in which case it can be displayed using display . The mobile device may be configured to permit a user to communicate with the shopping information server via the network or the like. For example the user may navigate a shopping hierarchy stored on the shopping information server using audio commands key commands entered on keypad or the like. In one embodiment mobile device may send location information from GPS transceiver over network interface to a shopping information server or the like.

The mobile device may include further applications not shown stored in the RAM or ROM or the like that may permit the user to interact with the shopping information server in a way similar to the client computer e.g. to enter user preferences or the like .

In one embodiment the mobile device may be configured to capture an image of a UPC code and or a barcode with camera or the like and to send the image to shopping information server over network interface for further processing. In one embodiment the mobile device may include optical recognition software not shown stored in the RAM or ROM or the like configured to transcode an image into shopping related information e.g. a product code price location product name . In one embodiment optical recognition software may include a proprietary program developed for the JAVA platform Palm OS Windows CE Linux or the like

In one embodiment the mobile device may be configured to send audio data through audio interface to shopping information server over network interface for further processing.

Network device includes central processing unit video display adapter and a mass memory all in communication with each other via bus . The mass memory generally includes RAM ROM and one or more permanent mass storage devices such as hard disk drive tape drive CD ROM DVD ROM drive and or floppy disk drive. The mass memory stores operating system for controlling the operation of network device . Any general purpose operating system may be employed. Basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling the low level operation of network device . As illustrated in network device also can communicate with the Internet or some other communications network via network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols including the TCP IP protocol. Network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

The mass memory as described above illustrates another type of computer readable media namely computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Video Disc DVD or other optical storage holographic nanotube atomic biological magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

The mass memory also stores program code and data. One or more applications are loaded into mass memory and run on operating system . Examples of application programs may include transcoders schedulers calendars database programs word processing programs HTTP programs customizable user interface programs IPSec applications encryption programs security programs VPN programs SMS message servers IM message servers email servers account management and so forth. Personalization Manager PM Shopping Control Manager SCM and Advertising Manager AM may also be included as one or more application programs within applications .

PM may control operation of the process described with reference to below. The network device may be configured to receive from device such as a client computer of or mobile device or directly via input output interface a mapping for a key sequence via the network interface unit . The mapping may be stored in hard disk drive such that if the key sequence is communicated from a mobile device to the network device the PM is configured to look up in the hard disk the mapping associated with that key sequence and return associated shopping information via network interface unit . The associated shopping information may also be stored on the hard disk drive or it may be accessed from for example information services via network interface unit .

SCM may control operation of the processes described with reference to below. Thus the SCM may control the retrieval or receipt of review information over the network using network interface unit from for example a device such as mobile devices of client computer or information services . The retrieved or received review information can be stored for example in hard disk drive . The stored information can be voice to text text to voice translated using central processing unit and or a translation and voice message processing system such as a software implementation of a telephone private branch exchange PBX or the like. In one embodiment SCM may receive image data which may be transcoded to shopping information by a optical recognition program or the like. Such transcoded shopping information may be associated with a product review or the like. The translated or the stored information may be provided to a mobile device via the network interface unit if a request for that information is received. The information may also be displayed using video display adaptor .

A shopping hierarchy may be included as a database file spreadsheet or virtually any data store that is stored in hard disk drive or the like. The shopping hierarchy may be a hierarchical structure represented by a linked list tree XML data SQL records or the like. The SCM may control the navigation of the shopping hierarchy based on commands received from a mobile device over a network at network interface unit or the like. The SCM may be arranged to receive geographical information about the mobile devices such as mobile devices from GPS unit of or the like. Further in one embodiment the SCM may receive from a third party via a network interface unit shopping information associated with branches of the shopping hierarchy or the like. In one alternate embodiment the shopping information may be stored in the network device itself e.g. in the hard disk drive or the like .

AM may control operation of the process described with reference to below. Personalization information may be included in a database file spreadsheet or virtually any data store that is stored in hard disk drive or the like. The AM may be adapted to extract information from the data store and map the information on to a template which may also be stored on the hard disk drive or may be communicated to the network device via the network interface unit or the like. Personalization information may also be received from outside the network device via the network interface unit from client computer or information services or via input output interface which may be connected to a keyboard mouse other user input device or the like. In one embodiment after mapping the personalization information into the template the AM may be arranged to translate the result into an audio advertisement to by sent over the network via network interface unit or the like.

Process begins after a start block at block where a shopping information is received. In one embodiment the shopping information may include store directions from one location to another. In one embodiment shopping information may include a consumer s review for a product or service collectively referred to as a product or an item . In this embodiment the shopping information may be received form the user. The review may rate the product itself e.g. in terms of usefulness value for money fulfillment of expectations or the like . In one embodiment the review may relate to the purchasing experience may take note of special offers or the like. In one embodiment the shopping information may include a summary of at least a portion of the review.

The shopping information may take any of a variety of formats. The shopping information may be audio based e.g. recorded at a user s computer or mobile device or the like . In one embodiment the received shopping information may be video based. In one embodiment an audio portion of the video based shopping information may be extracted and further processed as described herein. Alternatively the shopping information may be text based and or entered at a client device or on a mobile device or the like. The shopping information may be received via Web HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol XML email SMS VOIP or the like. In one embodiment the shopping information may be received substantially in real time e.g. at or around the point of purchase . Processing next flows to decision block .

At decision block it is determined whether the shopping information is audio based. If the shopping information is audio based then the process flows to block where it is determined whether to provide a text based shopping information based on the audio based shopping information. The process may be configured to provide text based shopping information e.g. a summary for all received audio based shopping information. Alternatively the process may provide text based shopping information for only some audio based shopping information for example based on any one or more of user context information e.g. user identify or preferences time of shopping information receipt product information review duration.

If at block it is determined that a text based shopping information is to be provided the process flows to block where the audio based shopping information is translated into a text based shopping information. Translation may be performed manually e.g. by audio typing or automatically using voice recognition software or the like. The process then flows to block where the text based shopping information is stored.

If at block it is determined that text based shopping information is not to be provided based on the audio based shopping information the process flows to block where the audio based shopping information is stored. The stored shopping information may be identical to the received shopping information or may be edited. From block the process flows to block where the stored audio based shopping information is provided to a user s mobile device over a network or the like. The process may then return to a calling process for further processing.

If at block it is determined that the shopping information is not audio based shopping information the process flows to block where a text based shopping information based on the received shopping information may be stored. The text based shopping information may be identical to the received shopping information. Alternatively formatting or editorial changes may be made.

From block the process flows to block where it is determined whether to provide audio based shopping information based on a text based shopping information. For example audio based shopping information may be based on a received text based shopping information or on a stored text based shopping information translated from a received audio based shopping information. The audio based shopping information may use a computer generated voice thus in one embodiment the process may receive a live voice providing the shopping information translate the audio based shopping information into text shopping information for storage or the like and provide a computer generated voice if a user requests the shopping information as a voice from a mobile device.

If at block it is determined that an audio based shopping information is to be provided the process flows to block where the stored text based shopping information is translated into audio based shopping information. In one embodiment the translated audio based shopping information may be pre generated generated on the fly cached or the like. In one embodiment the cached audio based shopping information may be stored for a particular period of time e.g. daily weekly monthly based on an age of the shopping information a frequency of use of the shopping information or other system requirements e.g. disk drive bandwidth memory usage . If audio based shopping information is not cached then the audio based shopping information may be generated on the fly and or re cached or the like. The process may then flow to block where audio based shopping information is provided to a user s mobile device over a network or the like. The process may then return to other processing.

If at block it is determined that an audio based shopping information is not to be provided e.g. if the request is from a web browser configured to display graphical shopping information the process may then flow to block where the stored text based shopping information is provided to a user s mobile device or computer over the network or the like. The stored text based shopping information may be sent via SMS text messaging or the like. The process may then return to other processing.

In one embodiment not shown a user preference my specify that both a audio and a text based shopping information should be provided to the user. In this embodiment blocks and are both performed.

In an alternate embodiment not shown the text based and or audio based shopping information may be summarized before being provided to the user utilizing natural language processing computational linguistic methods digesters automated summarizers or the like. This summarization may occur at block . In another embodiment audio based shopping information may be translated to text summarized stored and or translated back to audio before being provided to the user. In some embodiments the portion of the shopping information to summarize may be based on user behaviors preferences heuristics or the like. In one embodiment the shopping information may be sent to a third party for translation before being provided to the user.

Process begins after a start block at block where personalization information relating to a user is mapped on to a template to generate an audio based advertisement. In one embodiment the personalization information may be stored in a database that is part of or accessible by a shopping information server such as shopping information server of . The template may be audio based and or text based. If template is text based the template may include data fields on to which the personalization information may be mapped such as the user s first name last name username city state or the like. In one embodiment the template may selected for a mapping based on a user s behaviors such as current and or previous categories or products the user has searched. Thus the information provided to the user is configured to be interesting and relevant to the user.

The mapping process may include locating and reading entries from a data structure e.g. table or the like . In one embodiment the mapping process may be initiated in response to the establishment of a connection between a user device and the personalization server. In one embodiment the mapping step may be triggered by some other event such as the elapsing of a certain e.g. predetermined time period.

In an alternate embodiment not shown at block the audio advertisement may not be mapped. Instead the audio advertisement may be a pre generated audio advertisement or the like. In one embodiment block may determine to map the personalization information onto a template to generate the audio advertisement based at least on a user preference and or subscription level. If the user information indicates otherwise then a pre generated audio advertisement is provided. If a subscription level indicates no advertisement are presented processing then continues to block .

The process may then flow to block where the audio advertisement is sent to a mobile device associated with the user. The audio advertisement may be heard by the user on the mobile device. The process may therefore flow to block where the audio advertisement provides to the user a prompt and or another indication for accessing shopping information. For example the prompt may represent a telephone number or SMS short code number from which shopping information can be retrieved. Alternatively the prompt may invite entry of a key input e.g. press the key now for further information a simple voice action such as the user saying the word more info to permit the user to retrieve shopping information directly from the audio advertisement. In one embodiment the prompt may be a web or email address accessible over the network from either a mobile device or a client computer. In another embodiment the prompt may provide more audio and or in depth detail about that product. the prompt may also take the user to reviews of the product or the like. In one embodiment not shown the user may not be provided a prompt at block or may be provided a prompt at the end of the audio advertisement. Thus the user may be disabled from skipping the advertisement.

The process may then flow to block where a device input associated with the prompt is received. In one embodiment the device input is received at a shopping information server. The device input may be from the user s mobile device or from a client computer or the like. Processing next flows to block where shopping information is provided based on the received device input. In this embodiment the shopping information server may include a data structure in which shopping information is associated with various device inputs. Based at least on a users voice command e.g. up down yes no next price find search a received device input e.g. keystroke a combination of keys or sequences of keys such as telephone number SMS email message content or the like the shopping information server may access the associated shopping information and provide the associated shopping information as an output to the device from which the input was received. Other factors may be taken into account in the provision of the shopping information such as user preferences user location type of device or the like. After the shopping information is provided the process may return to other processing.

In an alternate embodiment at block a subscription level associated with the user may indicate that an automated response is to be provided to the user. In this case the shopping information may be generated or otherwise provided to the user as described above. However if at block the subscription level indicates that a live operator is to provide the shopping information the generated shopping information may not be provided. Instead a live operator may be connected directly to the mobile device to provide the shopping information.

Process begins after a start block at block where a shopping information server receives from a device such as client computer of or mobile device or the like personalization information associated with a user. The personalization information includes a voice preference. The voice preference may indicate the type of voice in which a user wishes to hear shopping information and or audio advertisements. In one embodiment the type of voice may be indicated by a style gender speed tone inflection language dialect or the like. The voice preference may include one or more options. For example different voices may be preferred for difference types of audio based information. The voice preference may indicate a computer generated voice or a real voice and may match with a celebrity s voice or other personality s voice e.g. a relative or friend of the user or the like. The personalization information may include one or more further user preferences. In one embodiment the preferences may include indicating that the user should be provided ratings reviews summaries in combination together alone or the like. In one embodiment the preferences may indicate providing the user the best and worst suggest other items like current review or the like. The user preferences may be included in a user profile stored to be accessible by the shopping information server or the like.

Processing next flows to block where a user can navigate a shopping hierarchy based on inputs to a mobile device. The shopping hierarchy may include entries for products in a tree like genre type product arrangement in which a user can navigate up and down the tree branches using commands at the mobile device. The commands may correspond to spoken voice instructions or one or more keystrokes. Shopping information may be associated with nodes in the hierarchy. A user may choose to receive the shopping information e.g. in text based or audio based form by entering a command. Alternatively the shopping information may be provided automatically if a user navigates to a particular node.

Processing next flows to block where a geographical identifier is received. The geographical identifier may be associated with the user e.g. home address or zip code a location entered by the user e.g. by entering in a new ZIP code or mobile device e.g. actual position determined by GPS or the like . At block shopping information associated with the shopping hierarchy is retrieved based on the user input and or the geographical identifier. The shopping information available at a given node may be variable depending on the geographical identifier. The shopping information may be text based.

Processing then flows to block where the retrieved shopping information is provided to the user at the mobile device or client computer as audio based data or the like. The format of the audio based data e.g. the type of voice used may be determined based on the personalization information stored for the user. In one embodiment the user s preferences may indicate that particular shopping information be retrieved e.g. the address and phone of the stores closest store with item in stock directions SMS directions read or the like. After the shopping information is provided the process may return to other processing.

Process begins after a start block at block where a mapping between a key input on a mobile device and selected shopping information is received at a shopping information server or the like. In one embodiment a user may create the mapping relationship at a device such as client computer of and upload the mapping relationship to the shopping information server. The mapping relationship may link the key input with one or more products from a product set. The product may be associated with up to date shopping information including recent reviews or the like. The key input may be a sequence of device inputs e.g. keystrokes or other suitable command functions e.g. spoken voice commands .

Processing next flows to block where a key input is activated at a mobile device and the activation is communicated over the network to the shopping information server . At block the process generates audio based data for shopping information based on the communicated activation. For example the server may locate text based shopping information based on the mapping uploaded by a user and then translate the located text based shopping information into audio based data. Processing next flows to block where the generated audio based data is sent as shopping information to the mobile device over the network. After the shopping information is provided the process may return to other processing.

It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also cause at least some of the operational steps shown in the blocks of the flowchart to be performed in parallel. Moreover some of the steps may also be performed across more than one processor such as might arise in a multi processor computer system.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

One embodiment of the present invention may be directed to a system method and apparatus for providing shopping information over a network comprising receiving at a server a mapping between a key input and shopping data wherein the mapping is associated with a user transmitting an activation of the key input over the network from a mobile device to the server generating in response to the transmitted activation audio based shopping information based on the shopping data sending the generated audio based shopping information from the server to the mobile device over the network. The key input may be user designated. The key input may be a hot key input. The key input may be a single keystroke a combination sequence of keystrokes or the like. Alternatively the key input may be a spoken voice or otherwise selected command. Receiving the mapping between a key input and the shopping data may comprise at least one of receiving the key input from an auction by a plurality of third parties receiving the key input based on another key input associated with a social network to which the user belongs or receiving the key input from the user.

The audio based shopping information may be a voicemail message or the like sent to the mobile device. The information may be a pre recorded spoken voice message or a computer generated voice message e.g. transformed from text or the like. Thus the user may be able to access or receive shopping information at a mobile device based on input of a key stroke or sequence.

Another embodiment may be directed to providing shopping information comprising generating an audio advertisement based on mapping user information onto a template receiving at a mobile device the audio advertisement wherein the audio advertisement provides an indication prompt for accessing shopping information receiving a device input associated with the indication and providing the shopping information based on the device input. The user information may include at least one of user profile information behavior information or social networking information or the like. The template may be text based. Similarly the user information may be text based stored in a database for retrieval or the like. The indication for accessing shopping information may be a key input for entering on the mobile device. In one embodiment the indication may include instructions for receiving the shopping information directly by contacting a vendor by telephone fax email SMS or the like.

The audio advertisement may be aurally distinguishable from the shopping information to enable a user to know if he is listening to an advertisement or to requested information or the like. The audio advertisement may be delimited from the shopping information by a signature sound such as a beep buzz jingle spoken voice message or the like. In one embodiment the audio advertisement may be given in a different voice from the shopping information. For example if a user usually receives shopping information in a male voice a female voice may be used for advertisements. In one embodiment the voice may be specially reserved to distinguish voice advertisements or the like.

In this embodiment generating the audio advertisement may comprise determining the template based on context information associated with the user determining a rule set for mapping information onto the template applying the rule set to map the user information onto the template to generate an advertising data structure and converting the advertising data structure to the audio advertisement. Thus as indicated above the template may be text based and or selected based on context information associated with the user from a database of one or more templates e.g. having one or more fields such as the user s first last or username city state products they own etc. or the like. The template may include one or more fields into which user information is mappable. The rule set for performing a mapping operation may be determined based on factors such as day and or time of advertisement or other context information associated with the user. The advertising data structure may be text based suitable for converting into audio based data.

Another embodiment may be directed to providing shopping information over a network comprising navigating at a mobile device a shopping hierarchy based on a user input wherein the user input comprises at least one of a Universal Product Code UPC entry a spelling entry a key input or a barcode entry. In one embodiment the spelling entry may be based upon the a configuration of a telephone keypad e.g. T9 QWERTY and or an intelligence e.g. on the client or server side for mapping a key sequence entry with a search query and or result. Such intelligence may use predictive key mapping or the like. In one embodiment navigating may comprise receiving a special key sequence such as which enables the user to bypass the navigation of the shopping hierarchy and or enable the user to jump to a particular product category or the like. The method may further include receiving over the network shopping information which is included in the shopping hierarchy if the shopping information is requested by the user input. Shopping information may be requested by issuing a further command e.g. a spoken voice command key input or the like . The method may include generating the shopping information as audio data. For example the shopping information may be generated by mapping product information onto a template based at least on a user information. The steps explained above in relation to the other embodiments described herein may apply to this embodiment as well.

In this embodiment the method may include providing a geographical identifier wherein the shopping information is provided based on the user input and the geographical identifier such that the shopping information at least identifies a product or service within a vicinity of the geographic identifier. The geographical identifier may comprise a zip code received from the mobile device a global positioning system GPS identifier received from the mobile device or a zip code associated with the user.

In general shopping information may include at least one of a name of a product a rating of the product a review of the product an identifier for a merchant for the product a geographical location of the merchant an availability of the product and a price for the product.

Another embodiment may be directed to providing shopping information over a network comprising providing shopping information to a mobile device associated with a user based at least on a preference indicated in a user profile or a profile associated with members of a social network to which the user belongs. Shopping information may therefore be customized for the user.

In this embodiment the method may include registering the user profile on a server wherein the profile includes a mobile device identifier sending a confirmation identifier to a mobile device identified by the mobile device identifier and identifying a user based on a call made from the mobile device or on the confirmation identifier. In one embodiment the confirmation identifier may be a code for entering in a field on a web site. Entry of a correct identifier may permit access to input amend or update the user profile on the server.

Another embodiment may be directed to providing shopping information over a network comprising generating a user profile comprising one or more user preferences usable for generating customized audio based shopping information to be sent over the network to a mobile device associated with the user wherein generating the user profile includes selecting by the user a voice from a plurality of available voices for the audio based shopping information. Selecting the voice may include paying a fee. Generating the user profile may include providing by the user one or both of an identification of one or more products or services owned by the user and an identification of one or more products or services wanted by the user or the like. The user preferences may include personal information about the user including one or more of age gender and address products owned and or reviewed social network of friends privacy settings birth date login statistics last login history of actions login tally or the like.

Another embodiment may be directed to providing shopping information over a network comprising receiving from a user information usable to generate audio based shopping information that is customized for the user and providing the customized audio based shopping information over the network to a mobile device associated with the user wherein an amount of audio advertisements included in the audio based shopping information varies based on a subscription level of a user. Thus a user may effectively customize the extent to which audio advertisements are included in a shopping information service by selecting a subscription level. Further a web based graphical user interface GUI may be provided to receive the user information and an amount of web advertisements displayed on the GUI may vary based on a subscription level of a user.

Another embodiment may be directed to providing shopping information over a network comprising receiving from a user a live audio based review of a product or service generating based on the received audio based review a text based review and providing shopping information over the network based on the text based review. For example providing shopping information may include one or more of displaying the text based review on a website generating based on the text based review audio based data for sending over the network and sending the original audio based review over the network. Thus review information may be provided live and or in substantially real time by the user e.g. soon after purchasing a product or service or the like . This information may be made available over the network in one or more formats in an efficient manner.

Another embodiment may be directed to providing shopping information over a network comprising navigating based on user input at a mobile device a shopping hierarchy which includes the shopping information and generating based on a navigated to location in the shopping hierarchy an audio advertisement for a predetermined product or service wherein the audio advertisement is customized by mapping user information onto a template. Thus one or more locations in the shopping hierarchy may be associated with a template usable for providing shopping information. In one embodiment if a user selects a location in the shopping hierarchy shopping information is automatically provided by mapping user information onto the template associated with that location. The shopping hierarchy may be navigated by keyword searching and or browsing.

Another embodiment may be directed to account registration over a network comprising registering for a user account receiving a password over an email for the user account receiving a verification code over a mobile network logging into the user account with the password and verifying after logging in the user account by entering the verification code. In one embodiment the verification code may be sent in an SMS message. The user account may enable the user to enter voice preferences reviews ratings or the like in accordance with the present invention.

