---

title: Printing non-visible, overflowing content by placing an indicator in a text box and printing the content outside the boundaries of the text box
abstract: Printing non-visible, overflowing text is described, including detecting text boxes with visible and non-visible content, the text boxes being disposed in a file, retrieving the visible and non-visible content from at least one of the text boxes, and generating a printout of the file, the printout having the file and the visible and non-visible content of at least one of the text boxes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572474&OS=08572474&RS=08572474
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08572474
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070503
---
The present invention relates generally to software and file printing. More specifically printing non visible overflowing text is described.

Conventionally various document formats e.g. HTML Adobe PDF etc. contain form fields. Text boxes are a type of form field configured to accept text input from a user. Text boxes are typically placed on a document page along with form fields and other objects such as images. The rectangle i.e. bounding box of the text box on a page is fixed and cannot be resized because the creator i.e. user author editor of the page has allotted space to each object on the page during layout. Thus a text box can not be resized because it will overlap another object such as an image. If the text content content input by a user does not fit in the rectangle of the text box conventional applications e.g. web browsers Adobe PDF viewers etc. add a horizontal or vertical scrollbar to the width or height of the text box rectangle respectively when the page is being rendered on a screen or display. The user can move the scrollbar to view the entire content i.e. visible and non visible content of the text box. However when conventional solutions are used to print a page that contains a text box with both visible and non visible content only the visible content is printed. Thus a user cannot see the non visible content of the text box on the printed page.

Obtaining non visible content of text boxes in a printed document is time consuming and labor intensive using conventional solutions. The user must copy the content of each text box with non visible content to a new document switching between the document with the text boxes and the new document. Once finished the new document is then printed with the entire content of the copied text boxes. This is tedious and inefficient as the user must create and manage a separate document for the non visible text. Further if the document has many text boxes with non visible content this would be extremely time consuming and prone to error. Also the new document would be confusing having no reference to the original document.

Thus a solution for printing non visible content of text boxes without the limitations of conventional techniques is needed.

Various examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

In some examples the described techniques may be implemented as an application or as a module or sub component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. If implemented as software the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming development scripting or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Java Javascript Ajax COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. Design publishing and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver Shockwave and Fireworks may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

Printing non visible content of text boxes is described. In some examples a file e.g. web page Adobe PDF document and others may contain one or more text boxes. In some examples the rectangle i.e. bounding box of the text box is fixed. If the text content content input by a user does not fit in the rectangle of the text box then the text box may have visible and non visible content. In generating a printout of the file e.g. printing the file viewing the print preview and others the visible and non visible content may be retrieved and incorporated in the printout. In some examples the visible and non visible content may be printed in a reference guide at the end of the file. In other examples the visible and non visible content may be printed on a new page following the page including the text box from which the content was retrieved. In still other examples the visible and non visible content may be printed on the same page as the page including the text box from which the content was retrieved.

In some examples a reference indicator may be assigned to a text box with visible and non visible content. In generating a printout of the file a reference indicator may replace the content of the text box in the text box rectangle and at locations where visible and non visible content is printed e.g. in a reference guide at the end of the file on a new page following the page including the text box on the same page as the page including the text box and others a reference indicator may be substantially situated with the visible and non visible content from the text box. In some examples substantially situated may refer to associating a reference indicator with text content characters numerals or other material of a text box on a page. For example a reference indicator may be substantially situated with visible and non visible content associated with a text box by placing the reference indicator on the same line as the start of the visible and non visible content printed at the bottom of a page. In some examples a reference indicator substantially situated with visible and non visible content of a text box may be a preceding superscript subscript printed in a different font or type set and the like. A reference indicator substitution may occur when generating a printout of the file and a printed file may remain unchanged. The described techniques enable a user to obtain the non visible content from a text box on a printed page without tedious manual copying and pasting. Further a reference indicator printed in a text box rectangle and substantially situated with the visible and non visible content of a text box enables ease of reference.

In some examples clients may be implemented using various types of endpoint devices. For example clients may be implemented using endpoint devices such as personal computers PC or any other type of computing device. Further clients may be implemented as notebook laptop computers cell smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs or printers respectively. In other examples clients may be implemented using any type of endpoint or computing device.

In other examples server may be implemented and used to deliver i.e. serve content information or data requested by one or more of clients . For example content requested by client may be performed using a web browsing application not shown installed on client . Content may include text documents files images photos applications or any type of information or data. When requested from server content may be delivered to the requesting client i.e. clients . In other examples server may be a server configured for a given purpose e.g. ad server web server content server application server web services gateway and others . When requested from server content may be delivered to the requesting client i.e. clients . Techniques for printing non visible content of text boxes such as those described herein may be implemented using the above described system and topology. In some examples printing non visible content of text boxes may be performed locally on one or more of clients . In other examples printing non visible content of text boxes may be performed remotely or in a distributed manner using server and one or more of clients . Further other system configurations topologies clients end and intermediate devices and implementation techniques may be used and are not limited to those described above.

As an example a transaction flow initiated by a print interaction with a file may be communicated using API from another application e.g. web browsing desktop e mail messaging or other or operating system thus enabling detection of the file to be printed. Detection module may be configured to detect one or more text boxes with visible and non visible content. Text boxes may be identified by a tag e.g. and others . In some examples text boxes with non visible content may be identified by comparing the height of the text box rectangle with the height of the text box content. If the height of the text box content exceeds the height of the text box rectangle then the text box contains non visible content. In other examples text boxes with non visible content may be identified by comparing the width of the text box rectangle with the width of the text box content. If the width of the text box content exceeds the width of the text box rectangle then the text box contains non visible content. In still other examples text boxes with non visible content may be identified by detecting a scrollbar on the text box indicating that the height or width of the text box content exceeds the height or width of the text box rectangle. Logic module may be implemented to provide logic control coordination command signaling and other functions and features for application . For example logic module may be configured to retrieve visible and non visible content of the text boxes in a file.

Printing module may be configured to generate a printout of a file where the printout includes the file and the visible and non visible content of the text boxes. In some examples visible and non visible content may be printed in a reference guide at the end of the file. A reference guide may be a separate page portion or section of a document that includes the visible and non visible content as well as reference indicators or other notations that correlate the visible and non visible content to sections of a document. In other examples visible and non visible content may be printed on a new page following the page including the text box from which the content was retrieved. In still other examples visible and non visible content may be printed on the same page as the page including the text box from which the content was retrieved. In some examples a reference indicator may be assigned to a text box with visible and non visible content. In generating a printout of the file the reference indicator may replace the content of the text box in the text box rectangle and wherever the visible and non visible content is printed e.g. in a reference guide at the end of the file on a new page following the page including the text box on the same page as the page including the text box and others the reference indicator may be substantially situated with the visible and non visible content from that text box. The reference indicator substitution may occur when generating a printout of the file and a printed file may remain unchanged. In other examples system and the described elements may be varied in implementation function or structure and are not limited to the examples provided.

A determination is made as to whether the height of the content exceeds the height of the text box rectangle . As an example the height of the content may be determined by adding the height of each line of text with the height of the gap between each line. If the total height of the text content exceeds the height of the text box rectangle then the text box includes non visible content and the process ends. If the height of the content does not exceed the height of the text box the process continues. A determination is made as to whether the width of the content exceeds the width of the text box rectangle . As an example the width of the content may be determined by adding up the width of each character in a line of text for each line of text. If the width of the text of any line exceeds the width of the text box rectangle then the text box may include non visible content and the process ends. If the width of the content does not exceed the width of the text box the text box does not contain non visible content and the process ends. The above described process may be varied in implementation design order and function and is not limited to the examples provided above.

Here page contains text box rectangle and text box rectangle . As an example page contains two text boxes which had non visible content in printed file . Text box rectangle has text that exceeds the width of its boundaries or bounding box. Thus the content of text box rectangle is replaced with reference indicator on printed page . Text box rectangle had text which exceeded the height of the text box rectangle. Thus the content of text box rectangle is replaced with reference indicator on printed page .

Page contains text box rectangle and text box rectangle . As an example page includes two text boxes one without non visible content and one with non visible content in printed file . Text box rectangle has text box content which did not exceed the boundaries of the text box rectangle . Since text box rectangle did not have non visible text in printed file the entire text box content may be printed with no modification on page . Text box rectangle has a scrollbar in printed file indicating that the content exceeds the width or height of text box rectangle . Thus the content of text box rectangle is replaced with reference indicator on printed page .

Page contains reference indicators and which are substantially situated with corresponding text box contents and respectively. In some examples page may be called a reference guide. Here the visible and non visible content of the text boxes is printed substantially situated with the corresponding reference indicator. Reference indicator also shown on page may be used to identify text box content as the visible and non visible content of text box rectangle . Similarly reference indicator also shown on page indicates that text box content is the visible and non visible content of text box rectangle . Similarly reference indicator also shown on page indicates that text box content is the visible and non visible content of text box rectangle . In other examples system and the above described elements may be varied and are not limited to the functions structures configurations or implementations provided.

Here page contains text box rectangle and text box rectangle . As an example page includes two text boxes that have non visible content in printed file . In some examples text box rectangle has text that exceeds the width of the text box rectangle. Thus the content of text box rectangle is replaced with reference indicator on printed page . Text box rectangle has text that exceeds the height of the text box rectangle. Thus the content of text box rectangle may be replaced with reference indicator on printed page .

Page includes reference indicators and which may be substantially situated with corresponding text box contents and respectively. In some examples page may be part of a reference guide. Here visible and non visible content of text boxes e.g. text box rectangles and is printed substantially situated with the corresponding reference indicator. Reference indicator also shown on the preceding page indicates that text box content is the visible and non visible content of text box rectangle . Similarly reference indicator also shown on the preceding page indicates that text box content is the visible and non visible content of text box rectangle .

Page includes text box rectangle and text box rectangle . As an example page includes two text boxes one without non visible content and one with non visible content in printed file . Text box rectangle has text box content which did not exceed the boundaries of the text box rectangle . Since text box rectangle did not have non visible text in printed file the entire text box content may be printed with no modification on page . Text box rectangle had a scrollbar in printed file indicating that the content exceeded the width or height of text box rectangle . Thus the content of text box rectangle is replaced with reference indicator on page .

Page contains reference indicator which is substantially situated with corresponding text box content . In some examples page may be part of a reference guide. Here visible and non visible content of text box is printed substantially situated with the corresponding reference indicator. Reference indicator also shown on page indicates that text box content includes visible and non visible content of text box rectangle . In other examples system and the above described elements may be varied and are not limited to the functions structures configurations or implementations provided.

Here page contains text box rectangle and text box rectangle . As an example page includes two text boxes that have non visible content in printed file . Text box rectangle may include text that exceeds the width of its bounding box. Thus the content of text box rectangle may be replaced with reference indicator . Likewise text box rectangle may include text that exceeds the height of its bounding box. Thus the content of text box rectangle may be replaced with reference indicator . Page also includes reference indicators and at the bottom of the page as shown. Reference indicators and are substantially situated with corresponding text box contents and respectively. The visible and non visible content of the text boxes is printed substantially situated with the corresponding reference indicator. Reference indicator also shown in text box rectangle indicates that text box content includes visible and non visible content of text box rectangle . Similarly reference indicator also shown in text box rectangle indicates that text box content is visible and non visible content of text box rectangle .

In some examples page includes text box rectangle and text box rectangle . As an example page includes two text boxes one without non visible content and one with non visible content in printed file . Text box rectangle has text box content which may not exceed the bounding box i.e. boundaries of text box rectangle . Since text box rectangle does not have non visible text in printed file text box content may be printed on page within text box rectangle . Further text box rectangle may be implemented with a scrollbar in printed file indicating that the content exceeds the width or height of text box rectangle . Thus the content of text box rectangle may be replaced with reference indicator on printed page . At the bottom of page reference indicator may also be printed which is substantially situated with corresponding text box content . Here visible and non visible content of text box is printed substantially situated with the corresponding reference indicator. Reference indicator also shown in text box rectangle indicates that text box content is the visible and non visible content of text box rectangle . In other examples system and the above described elements may be varied and are not limited to the functions structures configurations or implementations provided.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In some examples computer system may interface with a printer through communication link and communication interface . In other examples computer system may be coupled to printer by bus or another communication mechanism for communicating information. In yet other examples system and the above described elements may be varied and are not limited to the functions structures configurations or implementations provided.

The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

