---

title: Steady state tracking desorption system and method
abstract: A preferred embodiment steady state tracking desorption system achieves steady tracking of either a fixed sorbate output set point, or a set point that changes over time. The system includes an electrically heated thermal adsorption/desorption device A temperature sensor senses the temperature of an adsorbent material within the adsorption/desorption device. A sorbate sensor senses a sorbate level from an outlet of the adsorption/desorption device. A power sensor senses the power supplied by the desorption device. A controller interprets levels sensed by the temperature sensor, the sorbate sensor and the power sensor and provides a signal to achieve steady set point tracking of a sorbate level from the outlet of the adsorption/desorption device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08080095&OS=08080095&RS=08080095
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08080095
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070509
---
This invention was made with Government support under the following Contracts 1 U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center Construction Engineering Research Lab ERDC CERL Contract No. W9132T 04 2 0006 and 2 National Science Foundation Contract No. BES 0504385 DMI 02 17491.

This application is related to and claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 from provisional application Ser. No. 60 799 269 which was filed May 10 2006 and entitled STEADY STATE TRACKING DESORPTION SYSTEM AND METHOD.

Various industrial processes produce vapors and gases. These vapors and gases should be treated to avoid release of pollutants into the atmosphere. Other industries produce by product vapors and gases e.g. manufacturing of paint or polyethylene. Recapture of these by products increases the yield of a manufacturing process. Various processes have been developed to treat vapor and gas streams to serve these and other applications. Each seeks to remove vapors and gases from a gas stream.

Adsorption is a particularly useful technique. Adsorption removes a wide range of gas stream components. Adsorption process typically includes an adsorption step and a desorption step. During the adsorption step the gas stream is brought into contact with sorbent such as activated carbon or zeolites. Vapors and gases adhere to the sorbent carbon or zeolite due to molecular attractive forces. The adsorbed vapors and gases sorbate are released from the adsorbent during the desorption step. They are typically released by lowering pressure or by raising temperature. A typical method to raise temperature is by injection of steam. In the conventional processes released adsorbed gases are often burned or converted to liquid through a condensation system that is located downstream of the desorption flow from an adsorption desorption system.

Other emission control techniques include material substitution thermal oxidation membrane filtering biofiltration and absorption. The adsorption technique is advantageous due to its wide ranging applicability comparatively low energy requirements and its ability to recover gas stream components which have been recaptured. Adsorption also offers selectivity. Selectivity results if the temperature in the adsorption desorption system can be controlled during the adsorption step because different vapors and gases will adsorb to the sorbent carbon or zeolite at different temperatures. Selectivity has become better controlled with the use of activated carbon fiber cloth ACFC as a sorbent which has also yielded additional improvements to adsorption. ACFC has approximately twice the capacity of conventional adsorbents. It permits the rapid capture of volatile organic contaminants even when the contaminants have low concentrations in the gas stream. ACFC is ash free which inhibits reactions with vapors such as ketone containing organic compounds and alkenes. Many ACFC processes follow the model of the above described adsorption desorption processes with ACFC taking the place of beds of zeolites or granular carbon.

Adsorption desorption systems provide for the collection and subsequent treatment of adsorbate. Biofilters and oxidizers are typically used for destruction of the sorbate from high flow rate gas streams. Biofilters and oxidizers need to be designed to tolerate the swings in concentration in the sorbate concentration within gas streams. The input fluctuations in adsorbed vapors and gases result in over designing of biofilters and oxidizers. Use of an adsorption desorption system upstream of these devices allows for the gas stream to be treated by the biofilter or oxidizer at a much lower flow rate and at a constant concentration specifically designed for that downstream device.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 364 936 to Rood et al. advanced the state of the art for AFCF processes. The 936 describes devices and method that provide for the selective sorption and desorption of vapors and gases with electrically heated activated carbon fiber cloth elements. Sorbate output by the devices in the 936 patent is either in liquid or gas phase. Devices described in the 936 patent include an adsorption desorption system having one or more elongated hollow ACFC elements. The geometric configuration of the ACFC element or elements is designed such that the elements have an electrical resistance value sufficient to permit heating of the elements by electrical current to a temperature that permits adsorption of a select gas stream constituent or constituents. The geometry also permits gas flow to penetrate the ACFC element s . An enclosure houses the ACFC elements and is arranged to direct a gas stream through the elements and into and out of the enclosure via gas ports. The ability to heat the elements to a desired temperature by electrical current allows for straightforward implementation of selective adsorption. After an adsorption step altering the temperature of the element or elements further enables desorption.

A preferred embodiment steady state tracking desorption system achieves steady tracking of either a fixed sorbate output set point or a set point that changes over time. The system includes an electrically thermal adsorption desorption device. A temperature sensor senses the temperature of an adsorbent material within the adsorption desorption device. A sorbate sensor senses a sorbate level from an outlet of the adsorption desorption device. A power sensor senses power supplied by the power supply. A controller interprets levels sensed by the temperature sensor the sorbate sensor and the power sensor and provides a signal to achieve steady set point tracking of a sorbate level from the outlet of the adsorption desorption device.

The invention provides methods and systems that achieve adsorption of vapors and gases from a wide range of conditions and then provides for the steady state set point tracking desorption for subsequent destruction or treatment. The output sorbate gas stream can be maintained at a steady state sorbate concentration to track a fixed set point or can steadily track a set point that changes over time. The steady state sorbate concentration can be high for example if the subsequent process is to be combustion. The steady state sorbate concentration can be low for example if the subsequent process is biofiltration.

Preferred embodiment systems tolerate a very wide range of input stable or unstable sorbate concentrations while providing a high collection efficiency e.g. 99 and then provide for desorption of the sorbate in air or another carrier gas at a steady state tracking likely much lower total gas output flow rate and with a highly stable and easily controlled steady state tracking sorbate concentration. Sorbate concentration in the output gas stream can be controlled at a steady state tracking high concentration e.g. 1 000 s of ppmv to allow for efficient combustion with a much smaller oxidizer than is typically used in conventional adsorption desorption destruction systems. Alternatively a higher rate of combustion can be achieved with a typically sized oxidizer. Preferred embodiment systems can also provide a predetermined steady state tracking desorption output at a low concentration e.g. 100 s of ppmv to allow for efficient biofiltration with a biofilter that is much smaller than biofilters used in conventional adsorption desorption treatment systems. Downstream systems in a preferred embodiment desorption destruction and collection system using steady state tracking desorption in accordance with the invention can be precisely sized as the typical swings in output gas stream sorbate concentration levels need not be accounted for in the design of a downstream system e.g. an oxidizer or biofilter.

Use of the invention can also reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When steady state desorption of the invention is used less carbon dioxide is produced especially when a thermal oxidizer is used for downstream destruction of desorbed sorbate.

Methods and systems of the invention make use of an ACFC desorber device that can have its adsorption and desorption cycles electrically and precisely controlled. Preferred embodiments use a gas phase sorbate output ACFC cartridge desorber device disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 364 936. Other types of adsorbents that can be electrically heated can also be used in systems of the invention e.g. beads and monoliths. Example additional materials are disclosed in Adsorption and Electrothermal Desorption of Organic Vapors Using Activated Carbon Adsorbents with Novel Morphologies Luo et al. Carbon 44 2715 2723 2006 . Other examples include activated carbons such as monolith beads and fiber cloths that can effectively capture organic vapors and be electrically heated e.g. by electrical resistance or microwave heating .

In a preferred system of the invention an electrically heated ACFC cartridge desorption device is controlled to provide adsorption cycles and desorption regeneration cycles that occur on an alternating basis. There are two or more adsorption desorption cartridges in the electrically heated ACFC cartridge desorption device. A controller directs the amount of electrical heating of each of the cartridges in the desorption devices to create adsorption and desorption cycles. While one cartridge is heated to perform an adsorption cycle the other cartridge is heated to perform steady state tracking desorption. The gas flow and sorbate concentration in an output gas stream is monitored by the controller and the electrical heating to achieve desorption is controlled to provide a steady state tracking concentration of sorbate in the output gas stream that meets a concentration required by a downstream device such as an oxidizer or biofilter.

Particular preferred systems and methods will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. Schematic representations will be understood by artisans. From the particular preferred embodiments artisans will appreciate broader aspects of the invention and will also recognize variations and additional embodiments.

Referring now to a preferred embodiment steady state tracking desorption system is shown. The system includes an electrically heated ACFC desorber device preferably including at least two ACFC cartridges housed in a vessel . Heating is accomplished electrically such as by electrical resistance heating or electrical microwave heating. A single cartridge is illustrated in for simplicity of illustration though a single cartridge can also be used in practice. Valves control gas flows into and out of the desorber device . An additional valve provides output gas vapor samples to a vapor detector which determines sorbate concentration. The sorbate concentration data are provided to a controller . The controller also receives temperature data from a temperature sensor that monitors the temperature of the ACFC cartridge . The concentration data and temperature data are used by the controller to set and continue to adjust power output of a power supply that provides power to heat the ACFC cartridge . The power is adjusted as needed to maintain a steady state tracking sorbate concentration in an output gas stream D. The sorbate concentration can be set to match the requirement of a downstream system such as a destruction or treatment system. The input carrier gas flow rate D and accordingly the output carrier case flow rate can be set by the controller or another device independently of the sorbate concentration.

The steady state tracking sorbate concentration can be considered a set point. The set point can be changed as needed to meet different demands of different downstream systems which can for example be switched in and out of the output gas flow of the desorber device .

During adsorption the controller controls the power supply to maintain the temperature of the ACFC cartridge to an adsorption temperature. The concentration data from an adsorption output gas stream Acan be examined to ensure adsorption is occurring. Adjustments can be made to account for different contaminants for adsorption which may adsorb at different temperatures. The input adsorption gas stream Acan have a much higher flow rate than the output desorption gas stream. Use of multiple desorber devices is a preferred way to achieve concomitant adsorption and desorption and a low desorber output gas flow rate Dand steady state tracking concentration can be realized while typical variations in the input flow rate Aand contaminant concentration occur.

An example adsorption desorption cycle will be discussed. An initial adsorption cycle consists of passing a gas stream Athat contains a stable or unstable concentration of adsorbate through desorber device . During this initial adsorption cycle the controller controls the power supply such that it maintains the ACFC cartridge at an adsorption temperature. The duration of the adsorption cycle is determined by a pre defined time period or when breakthrough occurs. The vapor detector determines when breakthrough occurs. Breakthrough is determined by detection of the adsorbate at a specified gas phase concentration at the outlet of the adsorption vessel e.g. outlet concentration equals 5 of the inlet concentration . The adsorption cycle is then stopped.

The desorber device is now ready for a desorption cycle. The purge gas flow rate D Dduring the desorption cycle can be for example 1 or less of the gas flow rate during the adsorption cycle. The flow rate is independent of the steady state tracking sorbate concentration in D. The reduced gas flow rate with independently maintained sorbate concentration results in the ability of using smaller downstream processing systems e.g. biofilter or oxidizer than is possible without the use of the steady state desorption system. In preferred methods the systems vapor laden inlet gas stream Ais directed to a second cartridge or a second device that has completed its desorption cycle if continuous treatment of the inlet gas stream is needed before the gas stream Dis emitted to the atmosphere.

In preferred embodiments where electrical resistance is used to heat the ACFC element the elongated nature of the ACFC element compared to a relatively small cross section provides electrical resistance which can be further increased where multiple ACFC elements are connected electrically in series. The shape of the ACFC element does not have to be cylindrical though the illustrated cylindrical shape is easy to form. The ACFC that makes the element can be pleated or any other configuration to allow for adsorption of the gas or vapor. The ACFC material can also be layered or can be formed in a single piece of suitable thickness to resist fluid flow and permit gas penetration. The ACFC element is configured to permit electrical heating a temperature sufficient for adsorption of a desired component in a gas flow.

The controller see can adjust the electrical power to particular set points to provide good temperature selectivity and the ability to selectively adsorb different constituents since different constituents adsorb at different temperatures. A series of units or elements which are heated to different temperatures may be used to remove different constituents in series fashion. The well known relationship between length cross section and material properties determines electrical resistance of an individual ACFC element of the invention or a series combination of such elements.

One or more temperature sensors are used to monitor temperature of an ACFC element. Gas flow is directed through the ACFC element s when the elements have been heated to a temperature to accomplish adsorption to remove a component from a gas stream. During desorption steady state tracking control is accomplished by the controller . A gas e.g. air or nitrogen is used to purge the desorber device s during desorption. The low flow rate gas preferably flows in the opposite direction during desorption as the gas flow during adsorption. Reverse flow can help purge high boiling point constituents from the ACFC elements. An inert gas can be used to displace oxygen from the air in adsorber system to prevent oxidation from occurring during desorption. Air works well as the carrier gas when oxidation is not a concern and is a preferred carrier gas for its ready availability and lack of cost.

With reference again to the systems of the controller can be realized in software hardware or combinations thereof and can be separate or integrated with its associated sensors and power supply . The controller can include software and hardware modules to provide for data acquisition and control of the system s adsorption cycles and the steady state tracking desorption cycles. The software allows for acquisition of the signals from the sensors and feedback from the power supply determination of set points for the signals processing of the signals and then output of the signals to the devices being controlled which include the power supply and can include the valves as well. Integration of the hardware and software allows for signal acquisition and control from a wide range of inputs and or outputs such as voltages currents thermocouples and relays that allow for a carefully controlled rate of desorption for the adsorbate into the purge gas stream.

Many types of noise filters can be used to remove noise from signals received from the sensors and the point of filtering is to provide clean data to the controller . In experimental embodiments 60 Hz filters were used as noise reduction filters. The filter in experimental embodiments was included in interface hardware produced by National Instruments. The 60 Hz filters were embedded in the data acquisition hardware that are used between the various sensors and the electronic controller. These filters are intended to reduce electronic noise caused by electrical connections and or high voltage equipment that are operationally close to the data acquisition system.

The signal conditioner also provide an electrical isolation barrier that protects the signal conversion circuitry as well as the controller from high power signals e.g. 120 V supplied by the power supply to the cartridge to regenerate the adsorbent. Such protection is important if a temperature sensor is used that is the type of sensor that is physically attached to the cartridges e.g. a thermocouple. The signal conditioner also receives signals from a current sensor and a voltage sensor and provides the controller with a digital signal that is proportional to the current and voltage supplied by the power supply .

The controller detects and stores input signals concerning temperature and power from the sensors and then processes the signals with a feedback control algorithm preferably a proportional integral derivative algorithm to determine the magnitude of the analog output signals that are used to control the vapor concentration at the outlet of the adsorption vessel. represents the flow of a preferred proportional integral control algorithm.

With reference again to the measured input signal e.g. temperature of the adsorbent electrical resistance of the adsorbent and or the gas phase concentration of the adsorbate at the outlet of the vessel is compared to a predefined set point value that represents the desired condition for the outlet gas stream and or adsorbent. The preferred proportional integral derivative algorithm in the controller transforms the difference between the measured signal e.g. vapor phase concentration and or temperature of the adsorbent and the desired set point. The controller outputs a signal proportional to this difference in addition integrates the difference to force the controller to reach the desired set point. The controller reacts to sudden changes derivative feature of this difference to improve controller performance. This new value of the output signal is sent to a digital to analog converter D A . The control signal from the converter provides the controlling signal to the power supply which is preferably a Silicon Controlled Rectifier SCR power supply. The SCR then applies a proportional amount of power voltage and resulting current to the cartridge s . An increase decrease in the amount of power supplied to the cartridge s results in an increase decrease in the temperature of the cartridge s and an increase decrease in the amount of adsorbate that is emitted from the adsorbent. Consequently the power supplied to the adsorbent acts as a correcting signal that reduces the gap between actual measured concentration and the pre defined set point concentration which results in a carefully controlled vapor concentration in the gas stream that is emitted from vessel that is experiencing desorption at a carefully controlled purge gas flow rate. The desorption cycle continues while there is sufficient adsorbate in the cartridge s to maintain the desired outlet vapor concentration or the actual temperature of the adsorbent achieves a maximum set point value. The desorption cycle is then complete and the vessel is ready for its next adsorption cycle.

A system of the invention has been tested. The experimental system was consistent with . The description of the experimental devices is included to demonstrate a preferred embodiment and example performance. Artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention from the example experimental embodiments and recognize that the invention is not limited thereto.

Another form of electrical heating is through microwave heating which forms another preferred embodiment device. Systems are similar to the above discussed embodiments except the heating is accomplished through microwaves instead of electrical resistance. Also methods to dampen fluctuations are of interest to provide inputs to downstream destruction or collection systems e.g. oxidizer and biofilter destruction systems or a concentrator to collect desorbed gases or vapors. A preferred embodiment system is a steady state tracking desorption system having output flow controlled and fluctuations in desorbed contaminants dampened to permit use of the downstream.

An experimental bench scale prototype consistent with was tested and a prototype having a similar configuration as the system but including electrical resistance heating was also tested. The system was first tested to remove methyl ethyl ketone MEK from air streams. The MEK was then desorbed to provide readily controllable feed streams of MEK in air at a specified concentration and gas flow rate. MEK was adsorbed from air streams with a collection efficiency 99.8 up to 5 breakthrough and was then desorbed at constant outlet concentrations between 170 ppmv and 5 000 ppmv. Total gas flow rate during the desorption cycle was 20 of the gas flow rate during the adsorption cycle.

Testing was also conducted to test dynamic tracking i.e. testing the ability of prototype microwave heated and electrical resistance heated systems to produce a range of outlet concentration set points between 170 ppmv and 5 000 ppmv. The controlled outlet concentration rapidly and accurately followed the concentration set points. This is an important ability for a desorption system to be optimized for use with secondary collection and or destruction systems such as a biofilter or an oxidizer. With accurate set point tracking for example tailored HAP and VOC concentrations can be provided to such collection or destruction systems and at low total gas flow rates that are required for such collection and destruction systems.

The ACFC cartridge in the prototype microwave system contained 177 g of ACFC ACC 5092 15 American Kynol Inc. that was rolled around a Teflon coated fiberglass mesh to form a 45 cm long cartridge with an outer diameter of 6.5 cm an inner diameter of 6 cm. An electrical resistance heated prototype had an ACFC cartridge that contained 73.5 g of ACFC American Kynol ACC 5092 20 that was rolled into two annular cartridges.

For the microwave heated system temperature of the ACFC cartridge was measured with fluoroptic temperature sensors FOT Lab kit Luxtron that were located 7.5 cm 19.5 cm 32.0 cm and 36.0 cm from the top of the cartridge. Type K thermocouples Omega Inc. 0.25 mm in diameter were also attached to the outer wall of the vessel at the same vertical positions as the fluoroptic sensors to monitor the temperature of the vessel s outer wall. For the electrical resistance heated system temperatures of the cartridges and external wall of the vessel were measured with Type K thermocouples Omega Inc. 0.25 mm diameter that were located at the vertical center of the cartridges and the cylindrical portion of the vessel s external wall.

For the microwave heated system the power application system consisted of a 2 kW switch mode power supply SM840E Alter a variable output 2 kW and 2.45 GHz microwave head MH2.0W S1 National Electronics an isolator National Electronics a tuner National Electronics a waveguide to coaxial transition with a sliding short and an aluminum conductor. Power was monitored using a dual directional coupler with 60 db attenuation Mega Industries two power sensors 8481A Agilent and a dual channel microwave power meter E4419B Agilent . For the electrical resistance heated system a silicon controlled rectifier SCR Robicon Series 440 was used to control 120 V A.C. electric power that was supplied to the cartridges which dissipated energy through Joule heating. Power supplied to the cartridges was determined by measuring the root mean square voltage and current for the ACFC cartridges that were located in series using National Instruments hardware.

Outputs from the gas detection system power application and monitoring and temperature measurement systems were connected to a data acquisition and control system that used National Instruments hardware and LabView software to provide continuous recording of the sensors measurements and to control the power supplied to the ACFC during the desorption cycle. A proportional integral derivative algorithm was used to control the power supplied to achieve the specified set point vapor concentrations.

The photoionization detectors were calibrated with MEK HPLC grade 99.5 purity in air before each adsorption and regeneration test. Mass balances were used for the feed rates of the liquid MEK and air to determine the resulting concentrations of MEK vapor in the air streams that were detected by the photoionization detectors. Multi point calibrations occurred while the vapor generator was operated at the same gas flow rates as that used during the adsorption and regeneration tests to prevent any bias in the concentration measurements due to changes in gas flow rate and or sample pressure. The gas generation system was then turned on and the gas stream by passed the vessel until the organic vapor concentration achieved a specified steady state value.

An adsorption cycle occurred by passing the vapor laden gas stream through the vessel at an MEK concentration of 500 ppmv and an inlet air flow rate of 100 slpm. The organic vapor laden air stream passed from the outside to the inside of the cartridge and then exited the vessel during the adsorption cycle. The concentration of the vapor at the outlet of the vessel was continuously monitored with the photoionization detector. Adsorption occurred until the outlet concentration reached a breakthrough concentration of 5 of the inlet concentration or until saturation of the adsorbent.

During desorption power was supplied while dry and filtered air flowed at 10 or 20 slpm in the reverse direction that was used for the adsorption cycles. The outlet vapor concentration was monitored with the photoionization detector while the ACFC cartridge was heated. The vapor concentration was then compared to a predefined set point value that represented the desired outlet vapor concentration. The proportional integral derivative feedback algorithm allowed the system to achieve the specified outlet concentration by controlling the power supplied to the ACFC that was based on set points and measured vapor concentrations at the outlet of the vessel. An increase decrease in the amount of power supplied to the cartridge resulted in an increase decrease in the temperature of the ACFC and an increase decrease in the amount of adsorbate that was emitted from the adsorbent. Consequently the power supplied to the adsorbent acted as a correcting signal to reduce the difference between the set point and measured outlet concentrations which resulted in carefully controlled vapor concentrations at an independently controlled total gas flow rate. The total mass of MEK that desorbed during each desorption cycle m was calculated using a material balance for the MEK 

where Qis the flow rate of air during desorption P is the total gas pressure MW is the molecular weight of the adsorbate R is the ideal gas law constant T is the temperature of the gas stream at the outlet of the vessel tis the desorption time and Cis the concentration of MEK at the outlet of the vessel during the regeneration cycle.

The differences between the set point C and the measured C concentration were characterized using the absolute relative difference ARD where N is the total number of samples 

The MEK that was adsorbed onto the ACFC at 500 ppmv in air and at 100 slpm gas flow rate occurred until 5 breakthrough saturation of the adsorbent was first desorbed at a set point of 500 ppmv and at 20 slpm air to simulate a controlled feed to a destruction system e.g. a biofilter. Measured MEK outlet concentrations during the steady state desorption test for the microwave heated and electrical resistance heated systems was 506 22 ppmv average standard deviation and 497 7 ppmv respectively. The ARD between the Cand Cvalues for the microwave heated and electrical resistance heated systems was 3.6 and 1.2 respectively with fluctuations in the concentration being at least partially attributable to variations in the power supplied during heating and measurement accuracy of the photoionization detector.

The average power for the microwave heated system was 37.7 W. For the electrical resistance heated system the average power was 15.5 W.

Adsorption cycles removed 500 ppmv of MEK in air at 100 slpm until the adsorbent was saturated to prepare the adsorbent for desorption cycles with a set point of 5 000 ppmv outlet concentration at 20 slpm air to simulate a feed for an oxidizer. The average measured concentrations during the desorption tests for the microwave heated and electrical resistance heated systems was 5 004 157 ppmv and 4 970 68 ppmv respectively. As such both systems depicted a concentration ratio of 10. Lower or higher concentration ratios can be readily obtained. The ARD between Cand Cfor the microwave heated and electrical resistance heated systems was 2.3 and 3.7 respectively.

The proportional integral derivative control algorithm can be tuned to smooth the applied power profile for desorption and stabilize the output concentration and this was also tested. Fluctuations in output concentration values were reduced by changing the integration value of the proportional integral derivative algorithm above 50 minutes.

Dynamic tracking desorption tests caused the systems to follow carefully controlled transient set points for the MEK s outlet concentration which demonstrated the flexibility of the systems in terms of the quick response of the measured concentration to the variation in concentration set point during regeneration. For example the concentration of organic vapors and air flow rate for the feed stream to a biofilter can be adjusted separately to allow for a stable microbial population and efficient removal of the organic vapors from the gas stream. The organic vapor concentration and gas flow rate can also be adjusted upstream of an oxidizer to allow for safe and energy efficient oxidation of the vapors.

Adsorption cycles removed 500 ppmv of MEK in air at 100 slpm until the adsorbent was saturated to prepare the adsorbent for SST desorption cycles. The concentration set point for the microwave heated system varied from 170 to 5 000 ppmv while the air flow rate was held at 20 slpm. The ARD between the set point and the measured concentration ranged from 2.2 to 3.3 . The concentration set point for the electrical resistance heated system varied from 250 to 5 000 ppmv at 10 and 20 slpm air flow rates. Both systems proved very responsive to set point changes with an ARD between the measured and set point concentrations ranging from 0.0 to 9.6 .

For the microwave heated system the average power supplied to the system was 66.2 W. For the electrical resistance heated system the average power was 22 W.

In a batch process the adsorption cycle occurs first to capture the pollutants and then a regeneration desorption cycle is used to send sorbate onto a downstream destruction or collection system. The invention is also useful for concomitant adsorption and desorption CAD processes. In concomitant processes adsorption and desorption occur at the same time either in separate or single vessels.

One preferred embodiment discussed above achieves concomitant adsorption and desorption using two separate vessels. Concomitant adsorption and desorption can also be achieved in a single vessel. Concomitant operation is achieved for example by increasing carrier gas flow rates to a level that produces a high enough convective heat loss to maintain the adsorbent e.g. ACFC near both the adsorption and desorption temperature. Power is applied under control of the proportional integral derivative controller as discussed above to maintain a set point output concentration but the higher carrier flow rate results in a significantly different application of power and concomitant adsorption and desorption are achieved.

This was tested on a bench scale microwave heated example device and the experiments will now be discussed. In this mode 98 slpm of air with nominal MEK concentration switching between 0 and 1 000 ppmv every 10 min is fed into an adsorption regeneration vessel that contained 177 g of ACFC 15 that was partially preloaded with MEK. Variable inlet concentration was used to demonstrate the versatility of the system to treat widely varying inlet concentrations while still producing a constant specified outlet concentration. While MEK in the inlet gas stream gets adsorbed on the ACFC cartridge microwave power is applied to maintain the concentration at the outlet of the vessel to match the set point concentration of 500 ppmv. As such the same carrier gas i.e. air is used to transport the MEK while it adsorbs and desorbs at the same carrier gas flow rate.

During this test both adsorption and desorption are occurring concomitantly and are readily controlled to achieve a constant vapor concentration at the outlet of the vessel. In testing MEK inlet concentration fluctuated between about 5 and 1020 ppmv every 10 min resulting in an average concentration of 512 ppmv. The system was operated to maintain a set point concentration of 500 ppmv. While the inlet MEK was adsorbing on the ACFC cartridge microwave power was applied to desorb the MEK to achieve an outlet MEK concentration that is equal to the set point value. The average outlet concentration was 500.1 ppmv which is within 0.02 of the set point concentration. The ARD between the outlet and the set point concentrations was 0.3 The excellent control that was achieved during the concomitant adsorption desorption cycle is reflected by the small ARD value and illustrates the importance of tuning the proportional integral derivative control parameters. In this test there is no separate clean air flow see clean airflow omitted .

During testing the cartridge temperature quickly reached a steady state value between 50 and 55 C. This is unlike the low and high concentration SST desorption tests discussed above where the temperature continued to increase to 150 C. by the end of the regeneration test. This behavior is due to the quick heat dissipation by convection since the air flow rate in this test was five times the air flow rate during the low and high concentration SST desorption tests.

The power deposited to the system also quickly reached a steady state level with an average value of 185.6 W which corresponds to 70.2 kJ g of MEK desorbed. While the cartridge temperature in the concomitant operation test was much lower than the temperature in the low and high steady concentration SST desorption tests the power and energy consumption was 16 higher during the concomitant operation test. This results from the need to heat the cartridge to desorb the MEK and the high convective heat loss that is decreasing the cartridge temperature i.e. total gas flow rate during desorption was five times higher for the concomitant operation when compared to the SST tests as explained above. Unlike the case of the SST tests the cumulative energy during the concomitant operation test increased linearly with time since power deposition didn t depend on the fluctuation in inlet concentration.

The cumulative mass of desorbed MEK increased linearly with time since the total gas flow rate and the MEK concentration were constant during the desorption cycle. The steady state amount of MEK adsorbed on the ACFC varied within a narrow limit 30 g to 33 g or 170 mg g to 187 mg g depending on the inlet and outlet MEK concentrations. The amount of MEK adsorbed is important for sustainable operation of the system since having too much MEK adsorbed can exhaust the adsorption capacity of the ACFC and hence result in an outlet concentration that is higher than the desired set point concentration. However having too little MEK adsorbed can require higher power application and energy consumption to desorb the MEK to sustain the desired set point value for the vessel s outlet concentration. shows results from the concomitant operation prototype test specifically varying inlet vapor concentration set point outlet concentration and constant outlet concentration during the concomitant adsorption desorption test.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

