---

title: Methods and apparaus for requesting wireless communication device performance data and providing the data in optimal file size
abstract: Methods, systems, devices and computer program products are presented for requesting wireless device performance data and providing an optimal file size for the performance data. Present aspects provide for estimating the size of requested performance data, at the time of the request, and assessing other factors, such as requesting party preferences, to determine optimal performance data file size. In this regard, the performance data service provider is able to prepare and make accessible optimally sized performance data files, as the data becomes available as opposed to creating one comprehensive performance data file when all of the requested data is available. Additionally, some present aspects may provide for performance data requesting parties to implement Extensible Markup Language (XML) as the communication tool between the requesting device and the performance data-supplying network entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08176167&OS=08176167&RS=08176167
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08176167
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070430
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 868 657 entitled Method And Apparatus For Determining Optimal File Size For The Download And Process filed Dec. 5 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosed aspects relate to wireless communication devices and more particularly to systems methods and apparatus for requesting performance data from wireless communication devices and providing the data to the requesting party in optimal file size.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network

The current trend in the wireless communication device industry is to market devices that have a wide range of functionality. For example a single wireless communication device may be capable of wireless telephone communication digital photography wireless Internet communication electronic mail email and or Short Message Service SMS communication wireless audio and or video downloading other wireless network service communications and the like. In addition the wireless communication device may be capable of storing or wirelessly accessing numerous applications that can then be executed on the wireless communication device.

As the functionality of these devices expands the device users increasingly demand high performance and reliability. To insure such high performance and reliability applications are being implemented to monitor performance so that service providers device manufacturers and the like can respond to problems or the potential for problems in a timely fashion. Most of these monitoring type applications require data to be collected at the wireless device and in many instances communicated to a network device for subsequent performance analysis. For example a wireless telephone may log data related to calls or may capture data when an event such as a call failure or a call drop occurs.

Currently service providers device manufacturers or any other third party entity that desires to have access to wireless device performance data will request performance data though a network service. For example a requesting third party entity desiring performance data may access a network site run by the network service to request performance data from one or more wireless devices and provide performance data parameters. The performance data parameters may include but are not limited to identity of the wireless device or group of wireless devices from which data is to be collected the events that are to be logged by the identified wireless device s the duration of time for collecting data the percentage of data requested based on the total amount of data logged and the like. Once the network service has received a request the network service configures the wireless device s retrieves the performance data from the wireless device s assembles a performance data file of the requested data for the requesting party and provides the requesting party access to the file.

In many instances the requesting third party will request performance data from numerous wireless devices and for extended periods of time for example a month or thirty 30 day period. As such the cumulative data that is collected from the wireless device s may form a large data file. For example such performance data files may be as large as about 10 megabytes to about 1 gigabyte in terms of size. Network communication of such large data files poses a problem in terms of network efficiency and the use of network bandwidth. A large amount of network bandwidth must be available in order to communicate such large data files. In many instances network communication of such large files may be delayed or otherwise fail due to network bandwidth constraints.

Additionally in stances in which the requesting third party has requested performance data over an extended period of time for example a week a month or the like the requesting party may desire access to the performance data before all of the requested data has been generated and logged at the wireless device. For example if the requesting third party has requested performance data for a month long period the requesting period may benefit from having access to the data at weekly intervals.

Therefore a need exists to develop methods systems apparatus and computer program products that alleviate problems related to large performance data files and specifically problems related to network communication of such large data files. As such the desired methods systems apparatus and computer program products should provide for greater efficiency in terms of network bandwidth utilization. Additionally a need exists to develop methods systems apparatus and computer program products that do not limit the requesting party to accessing the performance data only after the entire requested data has been generated and compiled. As such the desired methods systems apparatus and computer program products should provide the user the ability to access to data while other data is still being generated collected and compiled into performance data files.

Present aspects provide for methods devices systems and computer program products for requesting wireless device performance data and providing an optimal file size for the performance data. Specifically present aspects provide for estimating the size of requested performance data at the time of the request and assessing other factors such as requesting party preferences to determine optimal performance data file size. The optimal file size will typically be less than the size of the requested performance data. As such multiple files of optimal size can be created with each file including a portion of the requested performance data. In this regard the performance data service provider is able to prepare and make accessible optimally sized performance data files as the data becomes available as opposed to creating one comprehensive performance data file when all of the requested data is available. By making optimally sized performance data files accessible to the requesting party as the data becomes available the requesting party is able to process and use the data at any earlier point in time. In addition smaller optimally sized performance data files provide more efficiency in the communication network in terms of the bandwidth necessary for communication to occur.

Additionally some present aspects may provide for performance data requesting parties and or the network device such as a user manager to implement Extensible Markup Language XML protocol as the communication tool between the requesting device and the performance data supplying network entity. In this regard XML provides the requesting party the ability to make performance data requests configure the collection of performance data on wireless devices receive access to optimally sized performance data files and make other performance data related communications with the performance data supplier. By implementing XML as the communication interface the performance data supplier is able to offer the requesting party a messaging mechanism that allows for reaching out and controlling the collection of performance data at the wireless devices via interface with the network device such as a user manager server or the like.

In one aspect a method is described for providing wireless communication device performance data of optimal file size. The method includes receiving a request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices determining an optimal file size for segments of the requested performance data by estimating the overall size of the requested performance data based on a time span for the requested performance data generating files of optimal size as segments of the requested performance data become available storing the generated files in memory and providing a requester access to each generated file as the files become available. In some aspects determining the optimal file size may additionally provide for determining a readjusted optimal file size during the performance data collection process based on network characteristics such as network bandwidth. Additionally determining the optimal file size may include determining a requester preference related optimal file size for example the requester may limit the file size or define a desired time period between accesses to generated files. In other aspects determining an optimal file size further comprises determining available network bandwidth.

In some aspects of the method receiving the request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices includes receiving an Extensible Markup Language XML protocol formatted request for performance data. Additionally in such aspects providing a requester access to each generated file as the files become available may include providing an XML formatted response to the requester that provides for access to each of the generated files as the files become available. In addition receiving the request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices may additionally include receiving one or more requester preferences for determining optimal file size and or receiving performance data configuration for the one or more wireless communication devices.

In some aspects of the method providing the requester access to each generated file as the files become available involves providing a requester the URL corresponding to a generated file for accessing the generated file as the file becomes available while in other aspects providing the requester access may involve communicating each generated file to the requester as the files become available.

Another related aspect is provided for by at least one processor. The processor is configured for a first module for receiving a request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices a second module for determining an optimal file size for segments of the requested performance data by estimating the overall size of the requested performance data based on a time span for the requested performance data a third module for generating files of optimal size as segments of the requested performance data become available a fourth module for storing the generated files in memory and a fifth module for providing a requester access to each generated file as the files become available.

A further related aspect is provided for by a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium having a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine an optimal file size for segments of the requested performance data by estimating the overall size of the requested performance data based on a time span for the requested performance data a third set of codes for causing a computer to generate files of optimal size as segments of the requested performance data become available a fourth set of codes for storing the generated files in memory and a fifth set of codes for causing the computer to provide a requester access to each generated file as the files become available.

Yet another related aspect is defined by a wireless communication device. The device includes means for receiving a request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices means for determining an optimal file size for segments of the requested performance data by estimating the overall size of the requested performance data based on a time span for the requested performance data means for generating files of optimal size as segments of the requested performance data become available means for storing the generated files in memory and means for providing a requester access to each generated file as the files become available.

Additionally another aspect is provided for by a network device. The network device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory and a communications module in communication with the processor and operable to receive a request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices. The network device also includes an optimal file size determiner module stored in the memory executable by the processor and operable to determine an optimal file size for segments of the requested performance data by estimating the overall size of the requested performance data based on a time span of the requested performance data a file generator module stored in the memory executable by the processor and operable to generate files of optimal size as segments of the requested performance data become available and a file access logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and operable to provide a requester access to each generated file as the file becomes available.

In some aspects of the network device the optimal file size determiner module may be further operable to readjust the optimal file size based on network characteristics such as network bandwidth. In this regard the optimal file size may dynamically change during the performance data collection period as dictated by network characteristics or any other factor influencing file size. Additionally the optimal file size determiner module may be further operable to determine an optimal file size for segments of the requested performance data based on a requester preference such as a file size preference and or a time between accesses to generated files. Additionally the optimal file size determiner module may be further operable to determine an optimal file size for segments of the requested performance data based on available network bandwidth.

According to another aspect a method for requesting and accessing performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices is defined. The method includes generating an Extensible Markup Language XML formatted request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices communicating the request to a network device and receiving an XML formatted response that provides access to performance data files that include segments of the requested performance data as the files become available. Additionally in some aspects generating an XML formatted request may include generating an XML formatted request that includes an XML based command identifier corresponding to at least one of Get Mobile List FILE Generation Register Mobiles Unregister Mobiles and Command Mobiles . Also in some aspects generating an XML formatted request may include a requester preference for performance data files such as file size and or time between access to generated files performance data configuration for the one or more wireless communication devices. In some aspects receiving an XML response that provides access to performance data files further comprises receiving an XML response that includes a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with a performance data file for accessing the performance data file as the file becomes available and or receiving a communication including the performance data file as the file becomes available.

A related aspect is provided for by at least one processor the processor is configured for a first module for generating an Extensible Markup Language XML formatted request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices a second module for communicating the request to a network device and a third module for receiving an XML formatted response that provides access to performance data files that include segments of the requested performance data as the files become available.

Another related aspect is defined by a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium having a first set of codes for causing a computer to generate an Extensible Markup Language XML formatted request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices a second set of codes for causing a computer to communicating the request to a network device and a third set of codes for causing a computer to receive receiving an XML formatted response that provides access to performance data files that include segments of the requested performance data as the files become available.

According to another related aspect a wireless communication device is defined. The wireless communication device includes means for generating an Extensible Markup Language XML formatted request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices means for communicating the request to a network device and means for receiving an XML formatted response that provides access to performance data files that include segments of the requested performance data as the files become available.

A further aspect is defined by a communication device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory an Extensible Markup Language XML module stored in the memory in communication with the processor and operable to generate an XML formatted request for performance data monitored by one or more wireless communication devices and a communications module stored in the memory in communication with the processor and operable to communicate the XML formatted request to a network device and receive XML responses from the network device and a network access module stored in the memory in communications with the processor and operable to provide access to performance data files that include segments of the requested performance data as the files become available. In some aspects the XML module is further operable to generate the XML formatted request that includes a requester preference for performance data files such as the file size and time between access to generated files and or performance data configuration for the one or more wireless communication devices. In other aspects the network access module is further operable to access a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with a performance data file as the file becomes available.

Thus present aspects provide for methods systems devices and computer program products that request wireless device performance data and provide an optimal file size for the performance data. Specifically present aspects provide for estimating the size of requested performance data at the time of the request and assessing other factors such as requesting party preferences to determine optimal performance data file size. Typically multiple files of optimal size are created with each file including a portion of the requested performance data. In this regard the performance data service provider is able to prepare and make accessible optimally sized performance data files as the data becomes available as opposed to creating one comprehensive performance data file when all of the requested data is available. By making optimally sized performance data files accessible to the requesting party as the data becomes available the requesting party is able to process and use the data at any earlier point in time. In addition smaller optimally sized performance data files provide more efficiency in the communication network in terms of bandwidth utilization.

Additionally some present aspects may provide for performance data requesting parties to implement Extensible Markup Language XML as the communication tool between the requesting device and the performance data supplying network entity. By implementing XML as the communication interface the performance data supplier is able to offer the requesting party a messaging mechanism that allows for reaching out and controlling the collection of performance data at the wireless devices via interfacing with the network device such as a user manager server or the like.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects are described herein are in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of a system for requesting performance data from wireless communication device and providing the data to the requesting party in optimal file size according to an aspect. is a block diagram of a system for requesting performance data from wireless communication device and providing the data to the requesting party in optimal file size according to an aspect. The system includes computing devices such as personal computer PC laptop computer and wireless device network device such as a user manager server and wireless devices . The computing devices are operable to generate and communicate performance data requests to the network device . Performance data requests may be communicated across a conventional wired network or a wireless network depending on the functionality of computing device . For example PC typically communicates a performance data request across wired network wireless device typically communicates requests across wireless network and laptop computer may communicate the requests across either the wired or wireless network . The network device is operable to receive the requests determine optimal file sizes for the requested performance data receive performance data from wireless devices generate performance data files of optimal size store the generated performance data files and make the files accessible to the requesting party.

Performance data may include but is not limited to any wireless device based or network interaction based data. For example performance data may include any one time only event or re occurring events that occur at wireless device data related to some component on wireless device and data related to the state of a component on wireless devices . Examples of events occurring at wireless device include but are not limited to a call drop a call success an access failure and access success. Examples of network interaction data include but are not limited to RF characteristics GPS characteristics and the like.

Network device includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory . Additionally network device includes communications module operable for receiving performance data requests from computing devices and receiving performance data from wireless devices . Memory includes performance data module . Performance data module includes a series of applications operable for receiving performance data requests from third parties such as network providers service providers device manufacturers and the like upload performance data from wireless communication devices and generate performance data reports files according to the requesting party requirements. For example see the MobileView service available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif.

The performance data module includes optimal file size determiner logic operable to determine the optimal file size for requested performance data based on one or more file size factors such as the estimated size of the cumulative requested performance data user preferences and network bandwidth. The estimated size of the cumulative requested performance data may be determined based on the defined performance data that is to be collected the defined time period for accumulating performance data collected performance data history and the like. The performance data module additionally includes file generator logic operable to generate performance data files according to the determined optimal file size and file access logic operable to provide the requesting party with access to the generated performance data files. In one embodiment the file access logic may be operable to store the generated performance data files in network memory not shown in and provide the requesting party with a Universal Resource Locator URL to access the generated performance data files as they become available. In alternate embodiments the file access logic may be operable to directly communicate the generated performance data files to the requesting party via the communications module .

Computing device includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory . Additionally computing device includes communications module operable for communicating performance data requests from computing devices and receiving access to performance data files from network device . Memory may include a performance data interface module operable for generating a performance data request that may include performance data file size parameters performance data collection configuration and the like. The performance data interface module may for example rely on XML protocols or any other computing protocols that are sufficient to communicate commands to the network device . Optionally performance data requests may be generated by other means such as a computing device interface with an associated network entity such as a network web site or the like. Additionally the memory of computing device may include a network access module operable for accessing and downloading network stored performance data files as they become available.

Wireless devices include a computing platform having a processor and a memory . Additionally wireless devices include communications module operable for communicating collected performance data to the network device . Memory may include an performance data collection module operable for collecting performance data such as call event data for example call drop call failure call success service outages and the like from the wireless device . Once collected the wireless device may upload the collected data to the network device based on a predetermined upload schedule.

The network device may include computer platform operable to transmit and receive data across wired or wireless network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform may include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also may include a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device.

The network device may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network device as well as between the network device and a computing device and wireless communication device . In this regard in some aspects communications module may serve as the delivery mechanism that is operable for communicating performance data requests and the receipt mechanism for receiving access to performance data files. The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wired and or wireless communication connection.

The memory of network device includes performance data module operable to receive performance data requests determine optimal performance data file size receive performance data from wireless communication device generate performance data files of optimal size and make the files accessible to the requesting party. The performance data module may include a performance data request queue operable to hold performance data requests as a sequence of requests awaiting processing. The queue may be required as performance data requests are typically handled in batch mode.

The performance data module includes optimal file size determiner logic operable to determine the optimal file size for requested performance data based on one or more file size factors such as the estimated size of the cumulative requested performance data user preferences and network characteristics such as network bandwidth. In this regard optimal file size determiner logic may rely of performance data parameters such as the definition of the performance data to be collected and or the defined time period for accumulating performance data and any other requester defined performance data parameters to estimate the size of the cumulative requested performance data or any remaining portion of the requested performance data. In addition optimal file size determiner logic may rely on stored performance data to assess the size of historical performance data files having similar performance data parameters as the current request. In some aspects user preferences which may define a file size or the frequency for which files are required by the requesting party for example hourly performance files daily performance files weekly performance files and the like may override the determination based on estimated cumulative file size and thus may dictate the size and or frequency of performance data files. Additionally optimal file size determiner logic may include a network bandwidth determiner operable to determine the available network bandwidth that is available prior to making a file accessible. If the available bandwidth does not support the optimally determined performance data file size the file size may be further diminished to accommodate the available bandwidth. In this regard the optimal file size determiner logic may be executed each time a requesting party requests access to a performance data file to determine if current network characteristics such as network bandwidth or any other factors influencing file size warrant readjusting the optimal file size. The network bandwidth of concern may be associated with the request to access a performance data file or it may be associated with the IP address of the requester.

The optimal file size determiner logic may be employed prior to queuing the request in the performance data request queue or in other aspects the optimal file size determiner logic may be employed after the performance data request has been temporarily stored in the queue or after a requester has requested access to a performance data file

The performance data module may additionally include file generator logic operable to generate performance data files according to user preferences determined optimal file size and or network characteristics such as network bandwidth and the like. Performance data is typically uploaded from wireless device in a raw data format and will require post processing at the network device in order to format and compile the data into performance data files. In addition post processing may be required to meet the specific requirements of the requesting party in terms of the configuration of the data requested. Thus extraneous information in the raw data format is typically parsed from the data stream prior to generating the performance data files.

Additionally the performance data module may include file access logic operable to provide the requesting party with access to the generated performance data files. In one embodiment the file access logic may be operable to store the generated performance data files in network memory not shown in and provide the requesting party with a Universal Resource Locator URL to access the generated performance data files as they become available. In alternate embodiments the file access logic may be operable to directly communicate the generated performance data files to the requesting party via the communications module . As such the performance data module of the present aspects is able to provide the requester with access to portions of the cumulative performance data prior to the end of the defined time period for collecting the data. As previously noted the optimal file size determiner logic may be executed in accordance with the file access logic such that providing access to a performance data file may warrant reassessing network characteristics or other factors influencing file size to determine if readjusting the optimal size of the performance data file is needed. In this regard optimal file may be dynamically adjusted during the period in which performance data is being collected logged and communicated to the network device .

Referring to according to another aspect a detailed block diagram of a computing device operable to generate performance data requests and in response to the requests receive a response that provides access to optimally sized performance data files. The computing device may include any type of computerized communication device such as personal computer PC cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and or may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wired or wireless computing device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across a wired or wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present computing apparatus and associated methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless computing device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The computing device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless and or wired network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor may includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the computing device is a wireless communication device such as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the performance data interface module and or network access module .

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof which enables communications among the various components of the computing device as well as between the computing device wireless network and or wired network . In described aspects the communication module enables the communication of all correspondence between wireless communication device and network device . Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless and or wired network communication connection and for receiving satellite signals. In some aspects the communication module is operable to communicate performance data requests and receive communications that provide access to the performance data files.

The memory of computer platform may include a performance data interface module operable for generating a performance data request that may include performance data file size parameters performance data collection configuration and the like. In one aspect performance data interface module may implement eXtensible Markup Language XML protocol to facilitate performance data file requests to the network device . Alternatively other communication protocols may be used to command the network device and request performance data files. Alternatively the performance data file size parameters performance data collection configuration and the like may be communicated in separate communications. By providing for performance data requests present aspects allow the third party requester to control the data collection related actions of the network device without having to interface with a user interface UI such as web based UI. Examples of XML formatted performance data requests are included in subsequent discussion. Optionally performance data requests may be generated by other means such as computing device interface with an associated network entity such as a network web site or the like.

Additionally the memory of computing device may include a network access module operable for accessing and downloading network stored performance data files as they become available. In certain aspects as discussed in relation network device the network device will generate performance data files of optimal size as the data becomes available and will store the data with an associated URL for appropriate requesting party access purposes. For example the network access module may be an Internet browser application that provides access to a web site associated with the URL storage of the performance data files. Operation of network access module to access and download a performance data file may trigger execution of the optimal file size determiner logic at the network device . As previously noted the optimal file size determiner logic may be executed to reassess network characteristics and the like to determine if readjusting of the optimal size of the performance data file is needed.

Additionally computing device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to interface with a module such as performance data interface module to initiate a performance date request. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display operable to display an application interface for requesting performance data.

In network network device such as a user manager server can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with a separate network database for storing the performance data files XX. Further a data management server may be in communication with network device to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Network device network database and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone network with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Network device and or data management server communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices and by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to a message flow diagram is depicted illustrating the communication between a requesting party communication device and the network device that receives the request determines optimal file size generates the optimally sized performance data files and provides access to the performance data files. At Event a third party requester such as a service provider a device manufacturer or the like generates at a computing device a performance data request and at Event the performance data request is communicated to a network device such as a user manager server.

At Event the network device validates the performance data request and queues the request for subsequent batch processing. At Event the network device communicates a response back to the third party requester informing that the request has been received validated and placed in the queue for processing. Additionally the response may include a token that allows the third party requester to track the progress of the performance data request.

At Event the third party requester sends a status request that includes the token to check on the progress of the performance data request. At Event the network device validates the status request determines the progress of the performance data request and generates a response. In this instance by way of example the performance data request is still in the queue awaiting processing and therefore the response back to the requester indicates such. At Event the network communicates the status response to the requesting party informing the requester that the performance data request is still in the queue awaiting processing.

At Event the performance data request exits the queue and a determination is made as the optimal size of the performance data files. As previously noted determine the optimal file size determination may be based on one or more file size factors such as the estimated size of the cumulative requested performance data requester preferences and network bandwidth. The estimated size of the cumulative requested performance data may be determined based on the defined performance data that is to be collected the defined time period for accumulating performance data collected performance data history and the like. Performance data collection parameters and or requester preferences such as the desired size or desired frequency may be communicated with the performance data request or they may be communicated in a separate communication.

At Event the network device will send performance data configuration requests to the wireless devices which define the parameters for data collection such as which events to capture the percentage or frequency of events to capture upload times for performance data and the like. At Event the wireless device uploads the requested performance data to the network device. At Event the network device processes the raw performance data and generates a performance data file according to the requester preferences and the determined optimal file size requirements. Once the file has been generated a URL is assigned to the file and the file is communicated to network storage for subsequent retrieval by the requesting party.

At Event the requesting device sends a performance data file request to the network device. In alternate aspects the request for the performance data file may not be required in order to obtain the performance data access response. In such alternate aspects the performance data files may be made available to the requesting party without the need to send a performance data file request. At Event the network device sends a performance data access response that provides with the requester with one or more URLs. Each URL corresponds to a performance data file. The number of performance data files and thus the number of URLs are defined by the outcome of the optimal file size determination. The individual URLs will be activated thus allowing the requesting party to access the performance data files as the performance data files are generated and stored. At Event the requesting party activates the URL to request the download of the performance data file. At Event the network device receives the request retrieves the performance data associated with the URL and at Event forwards the performance data file to the requesting party.

At Event the wireless device uploads additional requested performance data to the network device. At Event the network device processes the raw performance data and generates another performance data file according to the requester preferences and the determined optimal file size requirements. Once the file has been generated the URL is activated and the file is communicated to network storage for subsequent retrieval by the requesting party.

At Event the requesting device sends a performance data file request to the network device. In optional aspects the request for the performance data file may be not be required in order to obtain the performance data access response. At Event the network device sends a performance data access response that informs the requester that an additional URL is active i.e. an additional performance data file had been generated and is available for access. At Event the requesting party activates the URL to request the download of the performance data file. At Event the network device receives the request retrieves the performance data associated with the URL and at Event uploads the performance data file to the requesting party. This process may continue until all the optimally sized performance data files have been generated and the requesting party has been granted access to the files.

At Event the network device generates files of optimal size as segments of the requested performance data become available. In this regard data is uploaded from the wireless devices to the network devices on a predetermined schedule and files will be generated once an amount of data has been acquired that is equivalent to the optimally determined file size. At Event the generated file is stored in memory. In one aspect the generated file is associated with an assigned Uniform Resource Locator URL and stored in network memory. At Event the requesting party is provided access to each generated file as they become available. In one aspect the requesting party is provided the associated URL of the generated file and the requesting party is granted access to the files as the URLs become active i.e. as the files are generated and stored . In another aspect the generated files may be communicated to the requesting party as they become available.

At Event the generated performance data request is communicated to the network device. Communication may occur wirelessly or wired depending on the functionality of the sending device. At Event the requesting party receives a response that provides access to performance data files that include segments of the requested performance data as the files become available. In this regard the response may provide for URLs associated with performance data files with the URLs being activated for access as the performance data files are generated.

The following provides numerous examples of eXtensible Markup Language XML protocol formatted request and response commands for third party configuration of performance data monitoring collection on wireless communication devices. In this regard the third party is able to act in much the same manner as the network device such as the user manager server in requesting and configuring the monitoring and collection of performance data at the wireless devices. According to current aspects commands may include Get Mobile List which commands the network device to supply a list of wireless devices currently being monitored for the third party MDM Generation which requests the performance data collected from specific wireless communication devices over a requested period of time where MDM stands for the Mobile Diagnostic Monitor file format where in some aspects the network device converts the collected data from an original format into the MDM format it should be noted however that the network device may be operable to provide the collected data in any desired format as such the MDM Generation command may also be referred to as a File Generation command where the end user may request the network device to provide the collected data corresponding to a previously submitted Command Mobile command as discussed below Register Mobiles which commands the network device to register one or more wireless communication device for subsequent performance data collection Unregister Mobiles which commands the network device to unregister one or mobile wireless communication devices and Command Mobiles which configures the monitoring and collection of wireless device based data such as performance data at the specified wireless devices sends specific requests to upload performance data logs from the wireless communication devices and defines the start and stop times for logging performance data on the wireless communication devices. Each individual command will have a request communicated from the third party computing device and a response communicate back to the third party computing device from the network device.

The following paragraphs provide one example of a general structure of the XML formatted request commands originating from the application executing on the third party requester computing device. It should be understood that the present aspect include but are not limited to this example. Additional XML based structures may be utilized.

The following provides the general format for a Get Mobile List XML request message. As previously noted the Get Mobile List XML request message requests a listing of the current wireless devices being monitored on behalf of the third party requester 

The following provides the general format for a FILE Generation XML request message. As previously noted the File Generation XML request message requests performance data files and sets the time period for collecting performance data 

The following is a specific example of a File Generation XML request message in which two wireless devices are configured for performance data monitoring collection 

The following provides the general format for a Register Mobiles XML request message. As previously noted the Register Mobiles XML request message requests registration of one or more wireless communication devices for subsequent performance data collection

The following is a specific example of a Register Mobiles XML request message in which two wireless communication devices are registered for subsequent performance data monitoring 

The following provides the general format for an Unregister Mobiles XML request message. As previously noted the Unregister Mobiles XML request message requests unregisteration of wireless communication devices for performance data monitoring. In this regard unregistered wireless communication devices may not be included in a subsequent request to monitor collect performance data without first reregistering the device 

The following is a specific example of a Unregister Mobiles XML request message in which two wireless communication devices are unregistered for performance data monitoring collection 

The following provides the general format for a Command Mobiles XML request message. As previously noted the Command Mobiles XML request message configures the monitoring and collection of performance data at the specified wireless devices. The commands may include but are not limited to logging behavior uploading of performance data response mode settings and configuration settings 

The following the general format for a logging behavior command within a Command Mobiles XML request message 

The following is a specific example of an a Command Mobile XML request message including a logging behavior command 

The following the general format for an upload logs i.e. performance data command within a Command Mobiles XML request message 

The following is a specific example of an a Command Mobile XML request message including an upload logs command 

The following the general format for response mode settings command within a Command Mobiles XML request message. The response mode settings may include but are not limited to normal setting upload request decline setting and silent setting. These setting allows for setting the times for making a data call uploading data and define the times for which a data call uploading of data will not be performed 

The following is a specific example of an a Command Mobile XML request message including a response mode settings command 

The following the general format for configuration settings within a Command Mobiles XML request message. The configuration settings may include but are not limited to data collection communication occurrences and threshold 

The following the general format for a configuration settings command including data collection within a Command Mobiles XML request message 

The following is a specific example of a Command Mobile XML request message including a configuration settings command for data collection 

The following the general format for a configuration settings command including communication within a Command Mobiles XML request message 

The following is an example the default values for a Command Mobile XML request message including a communication command for data collection 

The following is a specific example of a Command Mobile XML request message including a communication command for data collection 

The XML formatted response commands are sent from the network device such as the user manager in response to the receipt of a request command. The response command may characteristically have the following general structure 

The following provides the general format for a Get Mobile List XML result message. As previously noted the Get Mobile List XML result message communicates a listing of the current wireless devices being monitored on behalf of the third party requester 

The following provides the general format for a File Generation XML response message. As previously noted the File Generation XML response message communicates performance data files and sets the time period for collecting performance data. It should be noted that throughout this example the abbreviation MDM corresponds to File e.g. the data files corresponding to a respective Command Mobile request that requested that one or more devices be configured for collection of data based on the configuration.

The following provides the general format for a Register Mobiles XML response message. As previously noted the Register Mobiles XML response message communicates registration status of wireless communication devices that have been requested to be registered 

The following provides the general format for an Unregister Mobiles XML response message. As previously noted the Unregister Mobiles XML response message communicates the registration status of wireless communication devices that have been requested to be unregistered 

The following provides the general format for a Command Mobiles XML response message. As previously noted the Command Mobiles XML response message confirms the configuration of the monitoring and collection of performance data at the specified wireless devices. The commands may include but are not limited to logging behavior uploading of performance data response mode settings and configuration settings 

The following provides one non limiting example of possible status code responses sent from the user manager network device to the requesting party e.g. these codes are Server API Command Queue Status messages 

The following provides specific non limiting examples of error codes sent from the user manager network device to the requesting party 

The following provides specific non limiting examples of a command mobile status message sent from the user manager network device to the requesting party 

The following provides specific non limiting examples of parser error codes indicating an error in the XML formatted request as sent from the user manager network device to the requesting party 

The following provides non limiting examples of codes for custom logging IDs e.g. IDs of data packets in a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network 

The following provides non limiting examples of codes for custom logging IDs in a Uniform Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network 

It should be noted that the above listed examples are not to be considered limiting and the present aspects are operable with any codes messages and data packets of any protocol.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus present aspects provide for methods devices systems and computer program products for requesting wireless device performance data and providing an optimal file size for the performance data. Specifically present aspects provide for estimating the size of requested performance data at the time of the request and assessing other factors such as requesting party preferences to determine optimal performance data file size. Typically multiple files of optimal size are created with each file including a portion of the requested performance data. In this regard the performance data service provider is able to prepare and make accessible optimally sized performance data files as the data becomes available as opposed to creating one comprehensive performance data file when all of the requested data is available. By making optimally sized performance data files accessible to the requesting party as the data becomes available the requesting party is able to process and use the data at any earlier point in time. In addition smaller optimally sized performance data files provide more efficiency in the communication network in terms of bandwidth utilization.

Additionally some present aspects may provide for performance data requesting parties to implement Extensible Markup Language XML as the communication protocol between the requesting device and the performance data supplying network entity. By implementing XML as the communication interface the performance data supplier is able to offer the requesting party a messaging mechanism that allows for reaching out and controlling the collection of performance data at the wireless devices via interface with the network device such as a user manager server or the like.

Many modifications and other aspects will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the aspect is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

