---

title: Locating ferromagnetic objects in a single pass
abstract: A ferromagnetic object is located by moving magnetic sensors along a path in an area of detection; using the sensors to measure a total magnetic field in the area of detection; using the sensors to measure all three vector components of magnetic field as the sensors travel along the path and passes the object; computing theoretical vector components of the total magnetic field in the area of detection; matching the measured vector components with the computed theoretical vector components of the total magnetic field; calculating an error measurement between matched measured vector components and computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field; determining optimized values of parameters that minimize an error between the measured vector components and computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field; and determining a position of the object based on the measured components of the magnetic field as a function of the optimized values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07707004&OS=07707004&RS=07707004
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07707004
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070910
---
This application relates to co pending U.S. patent application entitled Locating Stationary Magnetic Objects application Ser. No. 11 852 504 filed concurrently herewith the contents of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payments of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to magnetic sensing and more particularly to locating ferromagnetic objects.

Locating ferromagnetic objects by rastering over large areas can be very time consuming. A system and method for tracking magnetic objects is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 675 123 hereinafter referred to as the 123 patent issued to Edelstein the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference. As the 123 patent describes all types of land vehicles ships and aircraft have structural and power systems capable of generating substantial magnetic signatures. Even small inert objects may exhibit sufficient magnetization to be observed from a distance. These applications include covert handgun detection to protect buildings and their occupants pinpointing unexploded ordnance at converted military bases and locating the position and depth of underground pipes prior to construction activities. The ability to track magnetic objects is also crucially important in other areas such as medicine. For example controlling the orientation forces and or motion of internally implanted devices.

A variety of magnetic sensor data processing algorithms methods systems and devices thereof capable of localizing quantifying and classifying objects based on their magnetic fields and magnetic signatures have been developed. Some conventional techniques detect locate and classify magnetic objects based on a large set of measurements distributed over space and or time. Some conventional techniques involve using measurements of an object s magnetic dipole moment or are based on electromagnetic anomaly detection technology which senses an electromagnetic anomaly and pinpoints it as close to real time. Such a technique can measure how close a target is located to a sensor head while locating the target or magnetic object in three dimensions and thereafter evaluating its orientation.

One of the problems associated with such conventional techniques for tracking magnetic objects is that they are generally based on the utilization of three components of a detected magnetic field. Typically if measurements of the vector magnetic field are made great care must be taken to minimize rotational vibrations. However because the Earth s magnetic field is so large i.e. on an order 50 000 nT it is generally difficult to differentiate rotational vibrations from signals from an object.

Programs and methodologies based on such techniques typically require the inversion of a matrix and additionally require a relatively great deal of processing time. Such programs and methodologies also usually require obtaining measurements from several sensors simultaneously. In order to perform several measurements on nearby weak sources and to avoid rotational vibrations the sensors should be placed close to one another on a rigid frame. If the sensors are configured in this manner the difference between the signals from strong distant sources is generally small. Additionally obtaining accurate measurements of these small differences requires expensive sensors and the use of gradiometer algorithms. Unfortunately such techniques are generally time consuming and may also be inefficient. While the 123 patent provides a valuable technique for overcoming the problems of the conventional tracking techniques there remains a need for a technique for locating the position of ferromagnetic objects.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a method of locating a ferromagnetic object in an area of detection represented by a dimensional space comprising x y and z axes and a program storage device readable by computer comprising a program of instructions executable by the computer to perform the method of locating a ferromagnetic object in an area of detection wherein the method comprises moving an array of magnetic sensors along a straight line path with a velocity v in the area of detection using the magnetic sensors to measure a total magnetic field in the area of detection using the magnetic sensors to measure all three vector components of magnetic field as the array of magnetic sensors travels along the path and passes the ferromagnetic object computing theoretical vector components of the total magnetic field in the area of detection matching the measured vector components of the total magnetic field with the computed theoretical vector components of the total magnetic field calculating an error measurement E between matched measured vector components and computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field determining optimized values of parameters that minimize an error between the measured vector components and computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field and determining a position of the ferromagnetic object based on the measured components of the magnetic field as a function of the optimized values of the parameters.

Preferably the magnetic components of the magnetic field comprise three calculated magnetic vector components are represented by 3 3 3 as the magnetic sensors are moved in the straight line path past the ferromagnetic object wherein M M sin cos M M sin sin and M M cos and wherein right arrow over n x is a unit vector between a magnetic dipole of the ferromagnetic object and a position of the magnetic sensors.

Moreover square root over are components of right arrow over n x t is time and v is velocity along the straight line path. Additionally the matching process comprises matching an amplitude of a largest measured vector component of the magnetic field to a corresponding computed theoretical vector component of the magnetic field by multiplying the computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field by a predetermined constant.

Moreover the method may further comprise shifting a position along an x axis for the magnetic field vector components such that a maximum of the vector component corresponding to a largest measured component occurs at a same x axis coordinate. Also the error measurement E is determined by 

The method may further comprise determining values of angular parameters to specify a direction of magnetization of the ferromagnetic object to determine computed theoretical vector components that minimize the error measurement F wherein the values represent optimized values. Moreover the method may further comprise using the values of the angular parameters that minimize the error measurement E to calculate a position where a maximum total magnetic field occurs. Also the method may further comprise determining a shift of position along the x axis between a position of the ferromagnetic object and the position where a maximum total magnetic field occurs.

Another embodiment provides a system for locating a ferromagnetic object in an area of detection represented by a dimensional space comprising x y and z axes wherein the system comprises an array of magnetic sensors moving along a straight line path with a velocity v in the area of detection wherein the magnetic sensors are adapted to i measure a total magnetic field in the area of detection and ii measure all three vector components of magnetic field as the array of magnetic sensors travels along the path and passes the ferromagnetic object processing means for computing theoretical vector components of the total magnetic field in the area of detection processing means for matching the measured vector components of the total magnetic field with the computed theoretical vector components of the total magnetic field processing means for calculating an error measurement between matched measured vector components and computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field processing means for determining optimized values of parameters that minimize an error between the measured vector components and computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field and processing means for determining a position of the ferromagnetic object based on the measured components of the magnetic field as a function of the optimized values of the parameters.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

As mentioned there remains a need for a technique for locating the position of ferromagnetic objects. The embodiments herein achieve this by providing a technique for locating the position of a ferromagnetic object in a single pass of the area of detection. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The magnetic components of the magnetic field comprise three calculated magnetic vector components that may be represented by 3 3 3 as the magnetic sensors are moved in the straight line path past the ferromagnetic object wherein M M sin cos M M sin sin and M M cos and wherein right arrow over n x is a unit vector between a magnetic dipole of the ferromagnetic object and an observation point wherein square root over are components of right arrow over n x t is the time and v is the velocity.

The processor may be further adapted to match an amplitude of a largest measured vector component of the magnetic field to the corresponding computed theoretical vector component of the magnetic field by multiplying the computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field by a predetermined constant. Additionally the processor may be further adapted to determine values of angular parameters to specify a direction of magnetization of the ferromagnetic object to determine computed theoretical vector components that minimize the error measurement E wherein the values represent optimized values. Moreover the processor may be further adapted to use the values of the angular parameters that minimize the error measurement E to calculate a position where a maximum total magnetic field occurs.

Generally the embodiments herein provide a technique for locating the position of a ferromagnetic object at a distance away from the object that is large enough that the magnetic field from the object reduces to that of a dipole. This distance may be three or four times the size of the object . The object may be buried under ground at ground level or in the air. The 123 patent presents a technique for finding a line through the object . The largest error made by the method is approximately 3 . This possible error was a result of assuming that the maximum total field occurs when the object was at the point of closest approach. This error occurs in finding the line through the object . The method in the 123 patent assumes relative motion such that the object passes by the array of magnetic sensors in a straight line. The method in the 123 patent also assumes the largest maximum total field occurs at the position of closest approach of a sensor to the object . The embodiments herein provide a technique where this could be removed.

However the techniques provided by the embodiments herein can determine the exact position of the object in a single pass if the object is moving and the sensors are stationary or even if both the object and the sensors are moving. The technique provided by the embodiments herein utilizes the results of measurements from an array of magnetic sensors for example magnetometers which includes a vector magnetic sensor wherein each sensor in the array determines the total magnetic field of the area of interest. The steps in the procedure are as follows 

 1 First a set of magnetic sensors that includes a vector magnetic sensor moves in the x direction as shown in . Using the measurements of the total magnetic field and the algorithm described in the 123 patent the line on which the magnetic object resides is determined. Thus they and z distance to the object has been determined.

 2 The remaining task is to determine the x position. This is accomplished by using the three measured components of the magnetic field as one goes by the ferromagnetic object . As the sensor moves past the object it records the three measured components of the magnetic field as a function of x. One can also compute the magnetic field components which are given by 3 3 3 1 where in spherical coordinates sin cos sin sin cos and right arrow over n x is a unit vector between the dipole and the observation point which is a moving point along the path of the moving sensor and r is the separation between the dipole and the vector sensor. The direction of the unit vector changes because of the motion along on the x axis. The components of right arrow over n x are square root over where x vt where v is the velocity of the sensors past the object of interest and t is the time. The quantities y and z are the differences in the y and z coordinates between the position of the object and the path of the sensor . The quantities y and z can be determined by the algorithm provided in the 123 patent. Initially in the calculation it is assumed that the ferromagnetic object has its x coordinate equal to zero.

 3 The shape of the three computed component signals B x B x and B x are completely determined by v and . Predetermined trial values of v and are chosen. Here the velocity v is known in the case of determining the position of a stationary ferromagnetic object if one knows the velocity of the means for moving the sensors past the object .

 5 Match the amplitude of the largest measured component field to the corresponding computed component field by multiplying the computed field by a predetermined constant. In this regard the predetermined constant is a numeric number. For example if the maximum of the largest measured field component was 10 and the computed component was 2.5 then the predetermined constant equals 4.

 7 Shift the computed components along the x axis so the computed maximum field occurs at the same value of x as the measured maximum field. One may use either t or x for the computations since they are related by x vt.

 9 Repeat the process and find the trial values of and that minimize E. These are the optimized values of and .

 10 Compute the components as a function of t with the optimized values of and to find the time twhen the maximum total field occurs. The total field B is given by square root over 3 

The shift in x between the position of the ferromagnetic object and the position where the maximum computed component field occurs shown in is vt. The shift in the x coordinate between the position where the maximum total field was observed and the position of the object is also .

Once the and are determined one can calculate the components M M and M. Thus the direction of M of is known. This gives the magnetic moment of the object which helps in identifying the object i.e. a large shell casing versus a small handgun for example .

Preferably the magnetic components of the magnetic field comprise three calculated magnetic vector components are represented by 3 3 3 as the magnetic sensors are moved in the straight line path past the ferromagnetic object wherein M M sin cos M M sin sin and M M cos and wherein right arrow over n x is a unit vector between a magnetic dipole of the ferromagnetic object and a position of the magnetic sensors .

Moreover square root over are components of right arrow over n x t is time and v is velocity along the straight line path. Additionally the matching process comprises matching an amplitude of a largest measured vector component of the magnetic field to a corresponding computed theoretical vector component of the magnetic field by multiplying the computed theoretical vector components of the magnetic field by a predetermined constant.

Moreover the method may further comprise shifting a position along an x axis for the magnetic field vector components such that a maximum of the vector component corresponding to a largest measured component occurs at a same x axis coordinate. Also the error measurement E is determined by 

where B t B t and B t are the measured vector components of the magnetic field as a function of t and T is the time to pass the object .

The method may farther comprise determining values of angular parameters to specify a direction of magnetization of the ferromagnetic object to determine computed theoretical vector components that minimize the error measurement E wherein the values represent optimized values. Moreover the method may further comprise using the values of the angular parameters that minimize the error measurement E to calculate a position where a maximum total magnetic field occurs. Also the method may further comprise determining a shift of position along the x axis between a position of the ferromagnetic object and the position where a maximum total magnetic field occurs.

The embodiments herein can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment including both hardware and software elements. Preferably the embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the embodiments herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

A representative hardware environment for practicing the embodiments herein is depicted in . This schematic drawing illustrates a hardware configuration of an information handling computer system in accordance with the embodiments herein. The system comprises at least one processor or central processing unit CPU . The CPUs are interconnected via system bus to various devices such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and an input output I O adapter . The I O adapter can connect to peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives or other program storage devices that are readable by the system. The system can read the inventive instructions on the program storage devices and follow these instructions to execute the methodology of the embodiments herein. The system further includes a user interface adapter that connects a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface devices such as a touch screen device not shown to the bus to gather user input. Additionally a communication adapter connects the bus to a data processing network and a display adapter connects the bus to a display device which may be embodied as an output device such as a monitor printer or transmitter for example.

The embodiments herein can be used for locating the position of ferromagnetic objects in one or two passes. Again the embodiments herein may be used for finding the position of a stationary or moving object . As previously mentioned finding ferromagnetic objects by rastering over large areas can be quite time consuming. However the technique provided by the embodiments herein are much faster because one only has to pass by the object once or twice.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

