---

title: Plasma-catalyzed, thermally-integrated reformer for fuel cell systems
abstract: A reformer is disclosed in one embodiment of the invention as including a channel to convey a preheated plurality of reactants containing both a feedstock fuel and an oxidant. A plasma generator is provided to apply an electrical potential to the reactants sufficient to ionize one or more of the reactants. These ionized reactants are then conveyed to a reaction zone where they are chemically transformed into synthesis gas containing a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. A heat transfer mechanism is used to transfer heat from an external heat source to the reformer to provide the heat of reformation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08728180&OS=08728180&RS=08728180
owner: Ceramatec, Inc.
number: 08728180
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070508
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent No. 60 798 863 filed on May 8 2006 and entitled Reformation of Liquid Logistic Fuels for Fuel Cell Systems.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8201 04 C 0092 awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to liquid fuel reformation and more particularly to systems and methods for reforming liquid fuels for use in fuel cell systems.

As a society we often take for granted the mobility power and range afforded by the energy storage density of common transportation fuels such as gasoline aviation kerosene and diesel fuel. The legacy investment in the refueling infrastructure alone makes it apparent that fuel cell technology capable of utilizing these existing fuels may have a distinct advantage over those restricted to high purity hydrogen or other less widely available fuels. The ability to utilize reformate produced from these existing transportation fuels as well as from emerging non petroleum based fuels such as bio diesel and synthetic Fischer Tropsch liquids without the need for extensive cleanup is an advantage of solid oxide fuel cells SOFCs .

The higher efficiency of fuel cells compared to conventional engines is one of the main characteristics motivating the development and eventual commercialization of fuel cells. In stationary applications utilizing natural gas fuel this efficiency advantage is well established. However where liquid fuels are used a fuel processor used to reform liquid fuel exacts a heavy efficiency penalty on a fuel cell system. Historically the sulfur and aromatic content of transportation fuels has made them impossible to reform using the catalytic steam reforming process used with natural gas systems due to problems with poisoning the catalyst and carbon buildup. As an alternative partial oxidation processes e.g. POX CPOX ATR etc. have been employed but these also suffer drawbacks.

Although reformed fuel or reformate produced by conventional partial oxidation of certain fuels typically represents about 80 of the energy content of the fuel as measured by heating value the use of conventional partial oxidation processes with fuel cells results in a loss in the range of 30 to 40 percent of the electric power generation potential of the fuel. This is primarily due to the fact that a fuel cell is not a heat engine. Rather a fuel cell may be considered a Faradaic engine and the Faradaic current producing potential of a fuel cell is reduced by 4 Coulombs for each mole of Ointroduced during the conventional partial oxidation process.

For example referring to in general a prior art system for producing electricity using a feedstock fuel as an input may include a reformer or fuel processor and a fuel cell . The reformer may receive and process a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel to produce synthesis gas containing a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen gas. This synthesis gas in addition to oxygen may be used by the fuel cell to produce electricity . In certain embodiments the fuel cell may generate CO HO and heat as a byproduct.

Where natural gas or methane is used as the feedstock fuel a reformer may utilize a process such as catalytic steam reforming CSR to produce synthesis gas . This process generally involves reacting the methane with steam in the presence of a metal based catalyst to produce the desired synthesis gas . CSR and similar processes however are unable to reform liquid transportation fuels such as conventional diesel heavy fuel oil or jet fuel e.g. JP 8 Jet A etc. . This is because the sulfur and aromatic content of transportation fuels makes them difficult or impossible to reform using CSR at least in part because of problems with poisoning the catalyst and carbon buildup. Instead partial oxidation processes e.g. POX CPOX ATR etc. are normally employed to reform transportation fuels.

In general a conventional partial oxidation process may include partially combusting a sub stoichiometric mixture of feedstock fuel which may include chains of CH groups or more generally CHgroups and an oxidant . The combustion reaction is exothermic and provides heat utilized in reforming the remaining fuel to generate synthesis gas the reformation reaction of which is endothermic. The heat of reformation is on the order of 30 percent of the heat generated by completely combusting the fuel which can be obtained by partially combusting the fuel. Where fuels are high in sulfur content partial oxidation reactors may employ non catalytic partial oxidation of the feed stream with oxygen in the presence of steam at temperatures exceeding 1200 C.

The stoichiometric reformation reaction occurring at the reformer and using oxygen as the oxidant may be represented generally as follows CH 1 2 O CO 2 H At the fuel cell the synthesis gas and oxygen is converted to electricity carbon dioxide and steam in accordance with the following equation CO H O CO HO 4 As can be observed from the above equations each CHgroup generates about 4e 4 electrons of electricity using a conventional partial oxidation reformer.

Conventional partial oxidation techniques exact a heavy efficiency penalty on the fuel cell . The Faradaic current producing potential of a fuel cell is reduced by 4 coulombs for each mole of oxygen introduced in the partial oxidation process. Thus the oxidant in conventional systems reduces the ability of the fuel cell to produce electricity.

In view of the foregoing what are needed are an improved system and method for generating reformate from various fuels that improve the Faradaic efficiency of fuel cells such as solid oxide fuel cells SOFCs molten carbonate fuel cells MCFCs or phosphoric acid fuel cells PAFCs . Such a system and method would be capable of reforming fuels with high sulfur content e.g. 10 000 ppm without requiring sulfur pre removal while avoiding problems such as poisoning the catalyst or carbon buildup. Further needed is an improvement to the overall efficiency of fuel reformation and electricity production.

Consistent with the foregoing and in accordance with the invention as embodied and broadly described herein a reformer is disclosed in one embodiment of the invention as including a channel to convey a preheated plurality of reactants containing both a feedstock fuel and an oxidant. A plasma generator is provided to apply an electrical potential to the reactants sufficient to ionize one or more of the reactants. These ionized reactants are then conveyed to a reaction zone where they are chemically transformed into synthesis gas containing a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. A heat transfer mechanism is used to transfer heat from an external heat source to the reformer to provide the heat of reformation. The reformation reaction may occur in the temperature range of between about 350 C. and about 1100 C.

In selected embodiments the feedstock fuel comprises at least one of a hydrocarbon and a carbon. In other words the feedstock fuel may include a hydrocarbon and or a carbon fuel which may be provided in the form of a gas liquid or solid. The oxidant may include at least one oxidant chosen from steam oxygen air or some other oxygen containing compound or mixture. In selected embodiments the reactant mixture may be vaporized or gasified in order to be processed by the reformer.

In certain embodiments the plasma generator generates a gliding electric arc to ionize the reactants. Similarly the reaction zone may in certain embodiments include a reaction bed to homogenize the reactants by mixing chemical buffering or a combination thereof. In other embodiments the reaction zone comprises a reaction bed containing catalysts to promote equilibration of reactive species at temperatures lower than the temperature of reformation.

In selected embodiments the external heat source is a solid oxide fuel cell a molten carbonate fuel cell a phosphoric acid fuel cell a Fischer Tropsch process or the like. In one embodiment the reformer and fuel cell are disposed within an insulated enclosure to provide heat transfer therebetween. Heat may be transferred by way of radiation convection or a combination thereof.

In another aspect of the invention a thermally integrated system for producing electricity using a feedstock fuel as an input includes a plasma reformer configured to reform a mixture containing a feedstock fuel and an oxidant. The reformate includes synthesis gas containing a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide gas. The reaction producing this mixture has associated therewith a heat of reformation. A fuel cell is provided to chemically convert the synthesis gas to electricity and heat. A heat transfer mechanism is provided to transfer the heat from the fuel cell to the plasma reformer to provide the heat of reformation.

In another aspect of the invention a method for increasing the Faradaic efficiency of a fuel cell includes preheating a mixture of reactants containing a feedstock fuel and an oxidant. An electrical potential is applied to the reactants to ionize one or more of the reactants. While providing heat of reformation these ionized reactants are chemically transformed into synthesis gas containing a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. This synthesis gas may then be used as a fuel to generate electricity and heat. All or a portion of the heat generated may be transferred to the reactants to provide the heat of reformation.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of various embodiments as represented in the Figures is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure but is merely representative of various embodiments. While the various aspects of the embodiments are presented in drawings the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale unless specifically indicated.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

In the following description numerous specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations such as vacuum sources are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Referring to in general to overcome the efficiency penalty of the above mentioned reformers an improved system in accordance with the invention may include a sulfur tolerant reformer capable of reforming feedstock fuels with high sulfur content e.g. greater than 50 ppm sulfur content to generate synthesis gas . This synthesis gas may be utilized by a synthesis gas consuming process such as a fuel cell or other device or process which consumes synthesis gas which also generates heat as a byproduct. At least some of the heat from the consuming process may be transferred to the reformer where it may be used to drive the synthesis gas generating reaction improving the yield of synthesis gas from the reformer and the overall efficiency of the system .

Referring to one embodiment of a system functioning in accordance with the system described in may include a plasma reformer and a fuel cell generating heat as a byproduct. In selected embodiments the fuel cell is a solid oxide fuel cell molten carbonate fuel cell or other fuel cell which operates at high temperatures e.g. greater than 600 C. . As will be explained in more detail hereafter the plasma reformer may be used to reform fuels with high sulfur content without the problems associated with catalyst poisoning or carbon buildup. Thus the plasma reformer may be suitable to reform high sulfur liquid transportation fuels such as diesel heavy fuel oil or jet fuel.

Heat generated by the fuel cell may be transferred to the reformer to provide heat of reformation to the reactants . This may reduce or eliminate the need to combust a portion of the fuel to provide heat of reformation since it is provided by the fuel cell . Consequently the amount of oxygen used as the oxidant as described in and used to combust the fuel may be reduced or mostly eliminated and replaced with steam . The substitution of steam makes the reaction endothermic but produces an additional Hmolecule which provides additional fuel to the fuel cell . As used throughout this application heat of reformation includes heat utilized by the endothermic reformation reaction. Reformation reaction may also be referred to as the conversion of feedstock fuel and an oxidant into a synthesis gas.

To illustrate this effect the stoichiometric reaction occurring at the reformer and using steam as an oxidant may be represented generally as follows CH HO CO 12 H At the fuel cell the synthesis gas is converted to electricity carbon dioxide and water in accordance with the following equation CO 2H 3 2 O CO 2HO 6 As can be observed from the above equations each CHgroup generates 6e of electricity which constitutes a 50 percent increase over the 4e generated by the partial oxidation process described in .

In general a solid oxide fuel cell converts about 50 percent of the heating value of the synthesis gas to electricity and the other 50 percent to heat. Because only about 30 percent of the heating value is needed to reform the feedstock fuel to synthesis gas a solid oxide fuel cell produces sufficient heat to provide the necessary heat of reformation to the reformer . Nevertheless even where the heat generated by a fuel cell is insufficient to provide the required heat of reformation the heat may be supplemented by other sources e.g. by partially combusting the feedstock fuel or using other sources of waste heat until it is sufficient. In this way any significant amount of heat generated by the fuel cell may be recycled rather than wasted to improve the efficiency of the reformer .

Referring to in selected embodiments a plasma reformer in accordance with the invention may include a preheat zone a plasma generator and a reaction zone . The preheat zone may be used to preheat the reactants to provide the required heat of reformation. Because the reformation reaction is endothermic the reactants may be heated in order to generate the desired synthesis gas . The reactants may include feedstock fuel and an oxidant. In one embodiment the oxidant is at least one oxidant chosen from steam oxygen air or some other oxygen containing compound or mixture. Accordingly the oxidant may include steam or oxygen or air or oxygen containing compounds or oxygen containing mixtures alone or in combination with each other. Where partial oxidation is used to provide part of the heat of reformation the oxidant may be provided in sub stoichiometric amounts to partially oxidize the feedstock fuel. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that when stoichiometric amounts of reactants are provided for a reaction they are provided in a ratio such that substantially all of the reactants are consumed by the reaction. When sub stoichiometric amounts of reactants are provided for a reaction the reactants are not completely consumed by the reaction.

The thermodynamics of the reaction are such that synthesis gas production starts to increase at about 400 C. and maximizes at about 800 C. Thus the reactants may be heated to a temperature at or around 800 C. to maximize synthesis gas production. The reactants may be preheated somewhere near this temperature when they pass through the plasma generator which acts as a catalyst to initiate the reformation reaction. In selected embodiments only the steam as well as air or oxygen mixed with the steam is preheated. The feedstock fuel may be mixed with the steam just prior to passing through the plasma generator as indicated by the dotted line . This may prevent the feedstock fuel from becoming too hot thermally decomposing and clogging up the system.

The preheat zone may also be used to vaporize i.e. convert to gas or mist the reactants prior to routing them through the plasma generator . Reactants in a solid or liquid form may provide clusters of condensed matter which may act as nucleation sites. This may cause solid carbon nucleation which although unavoidable may be reduced by vaporizing the reactants . In some cases however the reformer may be used to process a feedstock fuel having a greater solid fraction. For example a feedstock fuel such as a coal water slurry i.e. coal dust entrained in water or coal dust suspended in gas which may have an energy content similar to jet fuel may be vaporized as much as possible prior to being passed to the plasma generator . Nevertheless feedstock fuels in pure gas form e.g. natural gas biogas etc. may be less susceptible to carbon formation.

Once preheated the reactants may be passed to the plasma generator to ionize or break apart one or more of the reactants to create reactive species. As will be explained in more detail hereafter in selected embodiments the plasma generator may ionize the reactants with a gliding electrical arc. This gliding arc may provide the function of a physical catalyst by activating and initiating the reformation reaction. However the gliding arc continually renews the active species whereas a physical catalyst relies on surface energy that can be poisoned by absorption of sulfur or buildup of carbon on the surface. The energy used to generate the gliding electric arc may be on the order of 2 percent of the heating value of the fuel being processed. If a fuel cell is 50 percent efficient i.e. converts 50 percent of the fuel s electrical potential to electricity then only 4 percent of the fuel cell s electricity may be used to operate the plasma generator . This represents an efficiency improvement over partial oxidation techniques which may consume 30 percent or more of the fuel s current producing ability when the fuel is reformed by partial oxidation.

After ionization the reactants may be passed to a reaction zone to absorb additional heat of reformation and complete the endothermic reactions. As vaporized reactants and products of the reactants leave the plasma generator some packets of gas may be oxygen rich while others may be oxygen lean. To further complete the reaction the reactants may be physically mixed or homogenized by passing them through a chemical buffering compound such as a solid state oxygen storage compound. Here the storage compound may absorb oxygen from oxygen rich packets while releasing oxygen to oxygen lean packets. This provides both spatial and temporal mixing of the reactants to help the reaction progress toward completion.

In other embodiments the reaction zone may contain catalysts suitable for promoting equilibration of gas species at temperatures different than the reforming reaction. That is the temperature of the synthesis gas produced in the reaction zone may be reduced and other reactions may be initiated. For example the synthesis gas may be used to produce methane within the reaction zone . Similarly the synthesis gas may be shifted to produce more hydrogen at the expense of carbon monoxide. This may be performed for example by passing the synthesis gas over an iron catalyst at temperatures below 400 C. In other embodiments the reaction zone may also be used to cool reaction products leaving the reformer .

Referring to in selected embodiments a plasma generator in accordance with the invention may include a pair of electrodes having a large electrical voltage difference therebetween e.g. 6 kV . A preheated vapor stream containing the reactants may be directed between the electrodes in the direction . The high voltage ionizes the gas which allows current to flow creating an arc as shown in . Because the ions are in an electric field having a high potential voltage gradient the ions begin to accelerate toward one electrode or the other depending on their charge. This provides tremendous kinetic energy for initiating the reformation reaction in addition to providing means for ionizing the reactants or simply breaking the reactants into radicals to create more reactive species. Thus in one embodiment a plasma generator is provided to apply an electrical potential to the reactants sufficient to ionize one or more of the reactants. It will be appreciated by those of skill in that art that sufficient ionization depends upon factors including without limitation choice of electrodes spacing of electrodes gas flow and pressure. A portion of the reactants is sufficiently ionized if the plasma can conduct an electrical current.

Under the influence of the flowing gas the ionized particles are swept downstream in the direction with the ionized particles forming the least resistive path for the current to flow. As a result the arc moves downstream and spreads out as it follows the contour of the electrodes as shown in . Eventually the gap becomes wide enough that the current ceases to flow. The ionized particles however continue to move downstream. Once the current stops flowing the potential builds up on the electrodes until it once again ionizes the gas flowing therebetween. This creates a new arc at a narrower region between the electrodes as shown in . This process then repeats itself. Most of the endothermic reformation reaction may actually occur in the plasma area i.e. the area between the electrodes or immediately downstream from the plasma area.

Referring to in order to provide heat of reformation to the reformer a design may provide adequate heat transfer to the preheat zone plasma generator and reaction zone of the reformer . In selected embodiments the reformer and a fuel cell may be placed inside a furnace or other insulated enclosure in order to retain heat and effectively transfer heat between the two components . In this embodiment heat generated by the fuel cell which may include heat generated through electrical resistance as well as heat generated electrochemically may be transferred to the reformer through radiation convection or a combination thereof.

Accordingly instead of insulating the reformer to retain heat the reformer may be designed to conduct heat through an exterior wall where it may be transferred to internal components and fluids. In certain embodiments residual synthesis gas or other fuel in the exhaust of the fuel cell may be burned to provide additional heat to the reformer . In other contemplated embodiments heat may be transferred to the reformer using a heat exchanger such as a counter current heat exchanger. This may be used for example to preheat steam used by the reformer with steam generated by the fuel cell .

In selected embodiments the reformer and fuel cell may include a cold or reduced temperature region . This enables pipes or wires to be more easily connected or disconnect to the reformer or fuel cell in a region of reduced temperature. Accordingly channels for conveying the feedstock fuel air and steam synthesis gas and the like as well as wires for conducting electricity may be connected to the reformer and fuel cell in the reduced temperature regions 

Referring to in one embodiment a reformer provides heat transfer to the reactants by way of an outer shell to absorb heat radiated or otherwise conveyed from a fuel cell or other external heat source. The outer shell may be made of steel or other materials having sufficient strength and stability at temperatures exceeding 800 C. In addition to providing a heat transfer mechanism to conduct heat to the reactants the outer shell provides a gas containment envelope that keeps the reactants as well as the products of the reactants e.g. synthesis gas isolated from the external environment. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that a heat transfer mechanism may be anything that allows heat to transfer by radiation convection and or conduction between the heat source and the reformation zone where an endothermic reaction can take place. A heat transfer mechanism may include without limitation a surface area situated between the heat source and the endothermic reaction zone that allows heat to flow into the reaction zone. The surface area may be integral with a vessel wall. In one embodiment the surface area that functions as a heat transfer mechanism is the surface area of the conduit that conveys reactants to the reaction zone.

A first channel may be used to convey a mixture of air and steam into the reformer . In certain embodiments the channel may originate in a low temperature region of the reformer and travel through a hot region to preheat and further vaporize the air and steam . In selected embodiments the channel may be coupled to a coil to provide additional surface area to further preheat the air and steam and vaporize the water . The coil may be coupled to a channel to convey the preheated air and steam into an electrically insulated region such as the inside of an electrically non conductive tube . The non conductive tube may be made of a material such as an alumina ceramic and may prevent electricity from discharging from the plasma generator to the conductive outer shell channels or other conductive surfaces.

Once the air and steam are preheated it may be mixed with a feedstock fuel conveyed through a feed channel . In selected embodiments this may occur within a mixing manifold inside the non conductive tube . Where the feedstock fuel is a liquid or solid the air and steam may be preheated sufficiently to vaporize the feedstock fuel as it mixes with the air and steam . This preheated mixture is then introduced at some velocity between the electrodes of the plasma generator where it is ionized or broken into radicals to create more reactive species and thereby initiate the reformation reaction. The electrodes may be connected to current carrying conductors connected to a voltage source outside of the reformer . In the plasma area and the area immediately thereafter most of the reactants may be converted to synthesis gas.

In one embodiment the reformer includes a co axial inner zone defined by an inner surface of tube . The inner zone may contain the plasma generator . The reformer also includes an outer annulus defined by the outer surface of the tube and the inner surface of the outer shell . In this embodiment the outer annulus contains the reaction zone . It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that a number of configurations may be provided to preheat the oxidant and or feedstock fuel. The reformer need not have coaxial or annular zones. For example in one embodiment a long tube without a separate annular zone may be utilized where the conduit is affixed outside or within the shell . The coils or conduit may also be positioned within the shell in a zone that is collinear with the plasma generator .

The synthesis gas and any residual reactants may then be conveyed through the non conductive tube and into an annular reaction zone where residual reactants may absorb additional heat of reformation and continue to react to form synthesis gas or other desired products. Here the reactants may be homogenized by passing them through a pack bed of chemical buffering compounds such as the solid state oxygen storage compound such as for example CeO NiO CeO ZrO solids of these compounds or mixtures thereof to promote further reaction. The pack bed may also serve to physically mix the reactants. In selected embodiments the reactants and the products of the reactants may also be passed over catalysts suitable for promoting equilibration of gas species at temperatures different than the reforming reaction.

The resulting products of reaction e.g. synthesis gas and any residual reactants e.g. hydrocarbons steam oxygen etc. as well as nitrogen from the air may be collected through a port such as a ring shaped collection manifold or other suitable collection device disposed within the annular reaction zone . This fuel mixture may then be conveyed through a channel where it may be transmitted to a fuel cell for use as fuel. In selected embodiments the annular region beneath the collection manifold may be filled with an insulating material to maintain a temperature differential between the low temperature zone and the hot zone .

In addition to carrying current the conductors may act as supports for the electrodes . These conductors may pass through cutout regions of the mixing manifold without touching the manifold to support the electrodes at a position above the manifold . In the apertures the conductors may be surrounded by high voltage insulators which prevent electricity from discharging to the mounting plate while allowing the conductors to pass through the plate .

In selected embodiments the mounting plate may be removed from the flanges to remove the mixing manifold and electrodes from the reformer assembly while leaving the rest of the reformer in place. In selected embodiments one or more notches may be formed in the mounting plate to ensure proper alignment for example of the mixing manifold with the channel .

Referring to although particular reference has been made to fuel cells herein a reformer in accordance with the invention may be used to improve the efficiency of other devices systems or processes that generate heat as a byproduct. For example the reformer may be used in conjunction with a Fischer Tropsch or methanation process to create synthetic fuel using synthesis gas as an input. As was described in association with using steam as an oxidant in place of oxygen may produce synthesis gas with a hydrogen to carbon monoxide ratio of roughly two to one. This ratio provides a good synthesis gas input to a Fischer Tropsch process .

A Fischer Tropsch process may include chemically reacting synthesis gas i.e. carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst to produce various types of liquid hydrocarbons. After extracting the liquid hydrocarbons a tail gas may remain which may include a mixture of water vapor carbon dioxide methane nitrogen unreacted synthesis gas as well as residual vapor hydrocarbon products. The tail gas may be recycled back to a gasification unit or to a Fischer Tropsch reactor inlet or may be burned as fuel.

In selected embodiments the tail gas may be burned to provide heat to a plasma reformer in accordance with the invention. As previously described this may allow steam to be used as the oxidant and may increase synthesis gas production without requiring additional fuel at the reformer input. Furthermore this provides synthesis gas with an improved hydrogen to carbon monoxide ratio e.g. 2 1 for synthetic fuel production. Thus a plasma reformer in accordance with the invention may be used to improve synthetic fuel production when integrated with a Fischer Tropsch process .

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its essence or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

