---

title: Event-based analysis of business objectives
abstract: Aspects of the invention relate to displaying on a graph data describing events and data describing key performance indicators (KPIs). The event data describes an occurrence that may influence the performance objectives of a business, such as the appearance of an advertisement for the business in a magazine. The KPI data describes a quantifiable measure of the business's performance, such as the number of sales of a product. The event data and KPI data are received and displayed on a graph so that the business owner can understand the relationship between the events and the KPIs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538800&OS=08538800&RS=08538800
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08538800
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070521
---
The present disclosure relates to methods and apparatus for helping businesses that sell products or services on the Internet meet their business objectives.

The Internet may be a useful tool for businesses seeking to sell products or services. Businesses frequently use the Internet by creating a web site that includes information about their products and or services. Such a business often hosts its web site on a web server that makes the business s web site available via the Internet. Once the business s web site is hosted on a web server potential customers all over the world can then learn about the business and its products or services. These customers may purchase products or services from the business through the business s web site or alternatively customers may purchase products or services through other means such as the telephone or conventional mail. The product or service may be delivered to the customer via the Internet e.g. computer software that is downloaded to the customer s computer via conventional mail or some other way.

Alternatively multiple businesses may host their web sites on a single web server. For example business may create a web site and have it hosted on web server and business may also host its web site on web server . Customers may access the web sites of business and business that are hosted on web server .

Web server that is used by business and business may itself be run by web server business . Business and business may pay web server business a fee for the service of having their web sites hosted at web server . Web server business may additionally provide other related services to business and business . For example web server business may provide services for creating web sites provide electronic mail services and or provide statistics regarding customers that visit a business s web site.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In some embodiments of the invention data describing events and data describing key performance indicators KPIs are received. The event data describe an occurrence that may influence the performance objectives of a business such as the appearance of an advertisement for the business in a magazine. The KPI data describe a quantifiable measure of the business s performance such as the number of sales of a product. The event data and KPI data are displayed on a graph to facilitate understanding the affect events have on KPIs.

It is frequently desirable for business owners and or managers to monitor their businesses performance and to take actions to improve the performance of their businesses. Monitoring the performance of a business may involve quantifying business objectives and presenting them in the form of a metric such that the performance of the business objective may be tracked over time. As used herein a key performance indicator KPI is a quantifiable measure of a business s performance. For example the number of sales or the gross revenue of the business over a period of time is a quantifiable measure of the performance of the business. Some KPIs that may be important to a business that sells products or services on the Internet include the measurement of web traffic to the web site. These measurements may include the number of visits unique visitors new visitors or any other suitable measurement. Other KPIs may include the number of emails or phone calls received from potential customers. The KPIs may be presented on a graph so that the business can monitor the performance of the KPIs over time or over some other independent variable such as geographical location.

In addition to monitoring KPIs business owners and or managers may take some action to attempt to improve the business s performance. An action taken by a business will result in an event that may affect the business s KPIs. For example a business may conduct an email campaign to inform consumers about its products or services purchase advertisements to appear on web pages or purchase search engine keywords so that a link to the business will appear adjacent to a search engine results page for that keyword. Alternatively the business may redesign its web site to make it more accessible to customers or reduce the prices of its products or services. Other events may impact a business s KPIs without the business having taken any action. For example when a web crawler of a search engine visits the business s site the business s web site will be updated for that search engine. In another example if the business s products or services are reviewed by a third party then the business may be able to attract new customers. As used herein an event is any occurrence that may influence a business s KPIs whether the event is instigated by an action of the business or instigated by a third party.

Applicants have appreciated that although systems exist for monitoring KPIs and presenting graphs of KPIs these systems fail to integrate the presentation of KPI information along with information about events used by businesses to improve the KPIs. Further Applicants have appreciated that existing KPI graphs do not facilitate understanding the effect that business events have on KPIs. That is Applicants have appreciated that it is important to understand the return on investment that specific events may have on KPIs in order to better understand what events are likely to be beneficial or harmful in the future. For example if one event provides no improvement to a business s KPIs then the managers of the business may determine that the event does little to improve the business s performance. By contrast if an event greatly improves a business s KPIs the managers may realize that the event improves performance and may try that same event again at a later time.

In addition Applicants have appreciated that the impact of an event on KPIs may depend on the timing of the event e.g. time of day day of the week month of the year or proximity to major holidays or some other time and may also depend on the proximity of one event to another event e.g. two events taken simultaneously may have a greater impact than when taken separately . Applicants have appreciated that by presenting businesses with information about KPIs with events designed to improve those KPIs businesses can better understand the impact these events have had on the KPIs and can make more informed decisions with respect to which events to use in the future to improve the KPIs.

In the process of event data is received before KPI data. The invention however is not limited in this respect as event data and KPI data may be collected in any suitable order and at any suitable time. That is event data may be collected first KPI data may be collected first event data and KPI data may be collected simultaneously or the data may be collected in any other suitable order. Further event data and KPI data may be collected in entirety at a single instance or alternatively event data and KPI data may be collected incrementally over a period of time. The timing of collecting event and KPI data and the display of the data is also not a limiting feature of the invention. The graph may be updated and displayed during the collection of event and KPI data the graph may be displayed after all event and KPI data have been collected or the graph may be displayed at any other appropriate time.

As described above event data is collected at step . Data for any suitable event may be collected as the invention is not limited in this respect. Examples of some events include those shown in Table 1.

As described above KPI data is collected at step . Data for any suitable KPI may be collected as the invention is not limited in this respect. Examples of some KPIs include those shown in Table 2.

Event data and KPI data may be collected in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. illustrates a business management system for collecting event data and KPI data in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. The business management system is implemented in software but other implementations are possible as the invention is not limited in this respect. The business management system of is made up of software modules including a software module for event tracking a software module for KPI tracking a software module for displaying event data and KPI data and a software module for generating reports and recommendations for businesses . The implementation of the software modules is not a limiting feature of the invention as the software modules may be implemented in any suitable way.

Business management system may allow businesses to take actions to create events and to monitor events. shows examples of software modules represented as that may be used to track different types of events. The types of events that may be tracked by the software modules is not limited to the types shown in as the invention is not limited in this respect and any suitable event may be tracked.

Business management system may provide software modules allowing a business to conduct various campaigns to attract new customers. Email campaign is a software module that may provide a business with a list of suitable email addresses or facilitate the business in compiling its own list of suitable email addresses. Email campaign may also assist the business in sending the emails and provide a way for the recipients of the emails to receive further information or to choose not to receive further emails. SMS short message service campaign is similar to email campaign except that the recipients may be contacted via text messages sent to their mobile telephones instead of via email. Print advertising campaign may provide a business with information about placing advertisements in print media such as newspapers or magazines. The information may include the cost of placing the advertisement the circulation of the publication and the demographics of the readers. Internet advertising campaign is similar to print advertising campaign except that the advertisements may appear in web pages e.g. as a banner advertisement instead of in print publications. Coupon campaign may allow a business to distribute either print or electronic coupons to consumers to provide a discount for the business s products or services.

Business management system may also provide software modules for tracking other events. Website update is a software module that may indicate that a business has updated its website. Website update may monitor the business s website via the Internet to detect updates may be integrated with a software module used by a business to update its website or may be implemented in any other suitable manner. Website update may also analyze a business s website and assist the business with search engine optimization SEO . In returning search results for a particular keyword search search engines return a search engine results page that comprises a ranked list of relevant web pages for that keyword. Website update may assist a business in conducting SEO by suggesting changes to the website that may increase the web site s page ranking on search engines. Crawler visit may indicate whether the web crawler of a search engine has visited the business s web site to index its content. Crawler visit may be implemented by monitoring the logs of the web server or in any other suitable manner.

Further business management system may provide a software module for a businesses to conduct search engine marketing SEM . Alongside their search engine results pages search engines include links to businesses. The businesses may pay the search engine to have a link to their business included for a particular search keyword. SEM may assist the business in conducting SEM by suggesting relevant keywords suggesting the maximum price a business should pay for a particular keyword and assisting the business in purchasing the keywords.

Other events may occur externally of business management system . An external event may be communicated to business management system in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. In some embodiments business management system may receive events through an application programming interface API . An API is an interface that allows different computer programs to interact with each other. For example a publisher of print media may use the API to communicate an external event relating to the publication of an advertisement to business management system . In some embodiments events may be offline in that the events cannot be communicated to business management system without user intervention. Information about offline events may be entered manually by the business owner manager or some other person. For example when a business owner or manager learns of a review of the business s product in a magazine the review may be entered manually into the system as an external event.

Information about events are received by event tracking software module . Event tracking may receive event information in any suitable way. For example event tracking may periodically request information about events from other software modules may passively listen for event information transmitted by other software modules or may obtain event information in any other suitable manner. Event tracking may also transmit event information to display software module . Event tracking may periodically transmit information to display may transmit information when requested by display or may transmit information in any other suitable way.

Business management system may provide software modules via which businesses may track or receive information about KPIs. shows examples of software modules represented at that may be used to track KPIs but any suitable KPI may be tracked as the invention is not limited in this respect.

Business management system may provide software modules that allow a business to track KPIs relating to the business s sales and inventory. Sales tracking may provide a business with information relating to the number of sales of its products or services the revenue received from sales or any other statistic indicative of sales. Sales tracking may obtain sales information by monitoring the sales made through the business s web site or by any other suitable means. Inventory tracking may provide a business with information relating to the number of products the business has available or any other statistic indicative of the business s inventory. Inventory tracking may obtain information by monitoring sales and additions to inventory by receiving information external to business management system as an external KPI described below or by any other suitable means.

Business management system may provide software modules allowing the business to monitor communications to and from consumers. Email tracking may provide a business with the number of emails received from consumers or sent to consumers regarding purchasing products or services technical support complaints or any other suitable category. Email tracking may receive information from the business s email server from the business s email software or by any other suitable means. Telephone call tracking may similarly provide a business with information about the number of telephone calls received from consumers or made to consumers. Telephone call tracking may receive information from the business s PBX private branch exchange or by any other suitable means.

Business management system may also provide a software module for tracking web analytics . Web analytics is the reporting of statistics relating to the visitors to a web site and the behavior of those visitors. Examples of some statistics that web analytics tracking may include are shown in Table 3 but other statistics may be collected as the invention is not limited in this respect.

Business management system may further provide a software module for page rank tracking . As described above search engines return a search engine results page that comprises a ranked list of relevant web pages for that keyword. Page rank tracking may monitor the page rank of a business s web site for relevant keywords by periodically submitting search requests to search engines.

Other KPIs may be external to business management system . An external KPI may be communicated to business management system in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. In some embodiments business management system may receive KPIs through an application programming interface API . For example in some embodiments the business s sales and inventory may be tracked externally of business management system and this information may be communicated to business management system via the API. In some embodiments KPIs may be offline in that the KPIs cannot be communicated to business management system without user intervention. Information about offline KPIs may be entered manually by the business owner manager or some other person. For example in some embodiments received telephone calls may not be monitored by business management system and this information may be entered manually.

Information about KPIs are received by KPI tracking software module . KPI tracking may receive KPI information in any suitable way. For example KPI tracking may periodically request information about KPIs from other software modules may passively listen for KPI information transmitted by other software modules or may obtain KPI information in any other suitable way. KPI tracking also transmits KPI information to display software module . KPI tracking may periodically transmit information to display may transmit information when requested by display or may transmit information in any other suitable way.

In some embodiments business management system may provide a software module to generate reports and make recommendations to businesses. Report recommend module may collect statistics about businesses using business management system report these statistics to businesses and offer recommendations to businesses to help them meet their business objectives.

Report recommend module may collect general information about the businesses using it such as their size industry group and geographical location. This general information may be collected when a business begins to use business management system or at any other suitable time. Report recommend module may also collect statistics regarding a business s use of business management system . For example business management system may record the actions taken by a business to improve its business objectives and the amount of money the business spent in taking these actions.

Report recommend module may provide businesses with reports containing statistics relevant to business s operations. In some embodiments business management system may inform a business how it compares to other businesses of the same size in the same industry group. For example report recommend module could report to a business that it spends more money on internet advertising than 90 of similar businesses has greater sales revenue that 10 of similar businesses and has a higher page rank than 40 of similar businesses. Report recommend module may report any relevant statistics as the particular statistics reported is not a limiting feature of the invention.

Report recommend module may also provide businesses with recommendations to help a business achieve its business objectives. In some embodiments report recommend module may generate recommendations by comparing a business to other businesses of the same size in the same industry group and the recommendations may include actions that a business could take. For example by comparing a business to similar businesses report recommend module could recommend that a business is likely to achieve a significant return on investment by increasing its spending on Internet advertising by 10 .

Referring to business management system may be provided as a service by web server business whereby web server business may charge a fee to business and to business to use the service for monitoring their KPI s and evaluating the impact of different events on their KPI s. Alternatively business management system may be sold as a product to a business to implement on its own web server. For example business may use business management system on its own web server .

Once the event data and KPI data are received the process of continues to act where a graph that includes event data and KPI data is displayed. Business management system of includes a display system . shows a window comprising a graph of event data and KPI data. Graph may be displayed in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. For example graph may be displayed in a window on a computer screen on a computer web page in a file on paper or in any other suitable manner.

Window comprises a title buttons that allow a user to modify the appearance of the window a graph of event data and KPI data and a listing of events . The layout of window is merely exemplary and the arrangement of the items in the window and the particular items included within the window are not limiting features of the invention. Further the number of events and KPIs displayed is not a limiting feature and any suitable number of events and KPIs may be displayed.

Graph shows a line graph displaying a first KPI and a second KPI as a function of time. It should be appreciated that the KPIs need not be presented as a line graph and may be presented as a pie chart a bar chart or any other suitable chart or graph. The first KPI represents New visits as indicated by label and the second KPI represents Converted visits as indicated by label . The user may be able to select which KPIs are to be displayed and the total number of KPIs to be displayed through buttons or by any other suitable means

The independent variable on horizontal axis of graph represents time but any suitable independent variable may be used. The dependent variable on vertical axis represents the range of values of the KPIs. One vertical axis is shown for the two KPIs but multiple vertical axes may be used if the range is different for different KPIs. Graph includes buttons whereby the user may scroll the graph on the horizontal axis to view the graph for different time periods. Although not show in graph in some embodiments the graph may be scrolled on the vertical axis and in some embodiments the axes may also be scaled.

Graph shows five events as indicated by reference numbers and . The times at which these five events occurred are indicated by where the vertical line crosses the horizontal axis but the invention is not limited in this respect as any suitable representation could be used to indicate the times at which the events occurred. The descriptions of the events are shown in box where the descriptions of six events are indicated by reference numbers and . Event does not appear on graph because the time at which the event occurred is not visible on graph . In box the user may click on an event description to obtain further information about the event and may use scrollbar to see the descriptions of other events.

In some embodiments link and link may allow the business add more events. Link with the text Track an offline event may bring up another window where the business can manually enter information about events. The manually entered events may then appear in graph . Link with the text Create a new marketing campaign may bring up another window where the business can take actions that create events. The available actions may include any of the actions described above for example conducting an email campaign or an Internet advertising campaign.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers. It should be appreciated that any component or collection of components that perform the functions described above can be generically considered as one or more controllers that control the above discussed functions. The one or more controllers can be implemented in numerous ways such as with dedicated hardware or with general purpose hardware e.g. one or more processors that is programmed using microcode or software to perform the functions recited above.

In this respect it should be appreciated that one implementation of the embodiments of the present invention comprises at least one computer readable medium e.g. a computer memory a floppy disk a compact disk a tape etc. encoded with a computer program i.e. a plurality of instructions which when executed on a processor performs the above discussed functions of the embodiments of the present invention. The computer readable medium can be transportable such that the program stored thereon can be loaded onto any computer environment resource to implement the aspects of the present invention discussed herein. In addition it should be appreciated that the reference to a computer program which when executed performs the above discussed functions is not limited to an application program running on a host computer. Rather the term computer program is used herein in a generic sense to reference any type of computer code e.g. software or microcode that can be employed to program a processor to implement the above discussed aspects of the present invention.

It should be appreciated that in accordance with several embodiments of the present invention wherein processes are implemented in a computer readable medium the computer implemented processes may during the course of their execution receive input manually e.g. from a user .

The phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and additional items.

Having described several embodiments of the invention in detail various modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such modifications and improvements are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and is not intended as limiting. The invention is limited only as defined by the following claims and the equivalents thereto.

