---

title: Cybersquatter patrol
abstract: An exemplary method includes providing a typographically erroneous domain name, tracing the domain name where tracing includes entering the domain name as part of a URL and recording one or more subsequent URLs, identifying a domain parking service for the domain name based at least in part on information in one of the recorded URLs, determining client identification information in at least one of the recorded URLs where the client identification information identifies a customer of the domain parking service and blocking one or more domain names based at least in part on the client identification information. Other exemplary technologies are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07756987&OS=07756987&RS=07756987
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07756987
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070404
---
A typo squatter refers to a type of cybersquatter that registers one or more typographical variations of a well known domain name. For example a typo squatter may register microsft as a domain name in an effort to capture Internet traffic from a person that mistypes the domain name microsoft . In addition to typographical variations some cybersquatters register domain names for combination terms such as microsoftoutlook which includes a company name and trademark MICROSOFT along with another trademark owned by the company OUTLOOK . Various exemplary technologies are described herein to discover cybersquatters and to manage information related to such cybersquatters to enhance security and in general to enhance a user s browser experience. In particular various technologies aim to uncover large scale and systematic cybersquatters.

An exemplary method includes providing a typographically erroneous domain name tracing the domain name where tracing includes entering the domain name as a part of a URL and recording one or more subsequent URLs identifying a domain parking service for the domain name based at least in part on information in one of the recorded URLs determining client identification information in at least one of the recorded URLs where the client identification information identifies a customer of the domain parking service and blocking one or more domain names based at least in part on the client identification information. Other exemplary technologies are also disclosed.

Use of various technologies described herein demonstrates that a large number of typo squatting domains are active and that a large percentage of these typo squatting domains are parked primarily with a few domain parking services. These domain parking services serve syndicated advertisements on typo squatting domains. In some instances syndicated advertisements include adult content. Serious concerns arise where such content appears upon entry of a typographical variation of child oriented website s domain name. Various exemplary technologies allow a parent to protect a child s web browsing activities allow a website owner to systematically monitor cybersquatting activities against a website etc.

The realm of the cybersquatting industry includes questionable domain name registrars questionable web hosting companies questionable domain parking services with contextual ad infrastructure and domain parking services powered by other entities . For example the parking service sedoparking provides a domain parking service but it serves ads from another entity. In another example an entity may have its own domain parking service that serves its own ads.

While conventional ad syndicators serve relevant contextual ads for example based on a publishers web content domain parking services serve ads based on domain name alone e.g. in many instances parked domains have no content . Many cybersquatters take advantage of domain name parking infrastructures to perform large scale systematic cybersquatting.

The cybersquatting industry relies on payments by advertisers . Various scenarios illustrate how money can flow in the cybersquatting industry . For example to access potential consumers advertisers enter contracts with domain parking services usually on a payment per click basis. In turn the domain parking services attempt to maximize clicks through deals with any of variety of entities including cybersquatters . Cybersquatters may pay for registration of questionable domain names by domain name registrars and pay for hosting of such domain names with web hosting companies of questionable reputation and business practices. A cybersquatter is an entity that owns or otherwise controls a questionable domain name.

While many domain name registrars are not involved in cybersquatting practices those that are involved are deemed questionable questionable domain name registrars . A questionable domain name registrar may also be a cybersquatter . In general registrars are accredited by ICANN or another official body. Questionable registrars risk having their accreditation revoked.

Conventional advertisement syndication relies on instructing a client side browser application to fetch ads from an ads server and to compose the fetched ads with content of a website that a user intends to visit. In such a manner some type of legitimate association between ad content and website content occurs. For example an advertiser of automobile insurance may want to display ads on a website for automobile aficionados.

Advertisement syndication typically relies on a third party URL mechanism of a web browser application. Such a mechanism operates via instructions received when a user visits a primary URL hosted by the first party either by typing the primary URL into the browser address bar or by clicking on a link e.g. on a web page in an email document in a general document etc. . For example a primary URL page may contain instructions that cause the browser application to automatically visit one or more secondary URLs hosted on third party servers e.g. to retrieve additional content such as images . Often such instructions occur without explicit knowledge or permission from a user. While many secondary URLs are on the primary URL s corresponding first party domain server some secondary URLs hosted on third party servers such secondary URLs are referred to as third party URLs. Third party URLs usually contain information about the primary URL to allow syndicators to serve the most relevant contextual ads based on the primary URL page s content and potentially historical information about the visiting machine or user .

As already mentioned domain parking is a special case of advertisement syndication. In domain parking a primary URL is a parked domain name without any real content. Instead of a web page with meaningful content a parked domain name displays to a user a web page with syndicated ads usually in the form of ad listings.

As an example consider a user that enters disneychannell.com via a browser application. This domain name instructs the browser application to load www.sedoparking.com disneychannell.com a URL responsible for serving a listing of domain parking ads. In another example the domain name disnychanell.com causes a browser application to load www.gimmie games.com a URL that advertises online games.

Some domain parking services provide additional information in third party URLs that facilitates analysis. For example when a browser visits disneyg.com the response page contains a HTML frame that loads 

In this string the cid field contains a Client ID that uniquely identifies a cybersquatter. As discussed herein various exemplary techniques can use such information to discover typo domain names registered to well known serial typo squatters.

Referring again to the infrastructure domain parking services provide convenient and effective contextual ads infrastructures that make even marginal typo domain names profitable. With an annual domain name registration fee being as low as 7.00 a parked typo domain name can usually cover this fee by attracting between one unique visitor every two days and two visitors per day depending on the pay out levels . In terms of scale servers owned by two identified domain parking services reached between 3 300 and 5 200 per million users daily to achieve overall server traffic ranks between 221 and 438 numbers comparable to those for popular websites such as travelocity.com 248 orbitz.com 315 reuters.com 342 usatoday.com 347 and slashdot.org 375 .

The URL tracing technology gathers information associated with URL redirection. For example when a user visits a web site a browser application may be instructed to visit other third party domains without the user s knowledge. Some of the third party domains can raise security privacy and safety concerns. The URL tracing technology reveals the third party domains. As shown in the URL tracing technology can assist various cyber patrol technologies. A browser application may include URL tracing technology that allows a user to enter a domain name e.g. as part of a URL and to record one or more subsequent URLs as being associated with the domain name.

The malicious URL evaluation technology allows for detection and analysis of web sites hosting malicious code in particular code that exploits browser vulnerabilities. While various technologies discussed herein mention browsers such technologies can optionally be used for detection and analysis of sites that provide any of a variety of types of web based content. For example many media players can load additional lyrics and purchase information e.g. as web pages and are therefore potentially affected by exploits etc.

A detection system known as the Strider HoneyMonkey Exploit Detection System has been developed by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . The HoneyMonkey system can detect attacks that use web servers to exploit unpatched browser vulnerabilities and install malware on computing devices of unsuspecting users. Such attacks have become one of the most vexing issues confronting Internet security experts.

Various conventional methods provide a honeypot server on the Internet to gain information about attacks and attackers. While manual analyses of exploit sites often provide useful detailed information about which vulnerabilities are exploited and which malware programs are installed such analyses do not provide a big picture view of the problem.

The Strider HoneyMonkey system creates a honeymonkey e.g. an automated honeypot on a computer or a virtual PC that actively mimics the actions of a user surfing the web. Accordingly a monkey program can drive a browser in a manner similar to that of a human user and run on one or more virtual machines to detect exploit sites.

The spam URL evaluation technology can classify URLs as spam related by a context based approach that analyzes URL redirection e.g. using the URL tracing technology . As large scale cyber scammers e.g. spammers etc. create hundreds or thousands of doorway pages that either redirect to or retrieve ads from a single domain spam URL evaluation technology can help identify an entire spam operation by uncovering target pages that connect to a large number of doorways. More specifically by feeding a list of known spam URLs to search engines to find forums blogs and other pages where more such spam links are located the spam URL technology can compile the links into a single potential spam URL list. The list can be provided to URL tracing technology to find which domains are associated with a high volume of doorway pages. False positives can be reduced by checking URLs against a whitelist of legitimate ad and web analytics providers.

Accordingly identification becomes easier as a spammer spreads a URL and once the spam URL evaluation technology identifies a forum for spam the forum essentially becomes a Honey Forum to obtain other spam URLs. Priority for manual investigation generally increases as the number of doorway pages increases. Identification of spam URLs can be followed with either removal of the URLs from a search index or assignment of low relevance ranking to each of the URLs.

Cybersquatter URL evaluation technology can identify cybersquatting URLs . shows a particular typo cybersquatting method . The method includes a generation block that generates a so called typo neighborhood according to five particular algorithms 

 A Missing dot typos The . following www is removed for example wwwSouthwest.com wwwBarbie.com and wwwMySpace.com.

 B Character omission typos Characters are omitted one at a time for example Diney.com MarthStewart.com and RuneSape.com.

 C Character permutation typos Consecutive characters are swapped one pair at a time unless they are the same characters for example Rueters.com NYTiems.com and Cingluar.com.

 D Character replacement typos Characters are replaced one at a time and a replacement character is selected from a set of characters adjacent to the given character on a standard keyboard for example DidneyWorld.com Luftgansa.com and USATodsy.com.

 E Character insertion typos characters are inserted one at a time and the inserted character is chosen from a set of characters adjacent to either of the given pair on a standard keyboard and including the given pair for example Googlle.com WashingtonPoost.com and Mozzilla.org. This algorithm can also insert characters at the beginning and at the end.

The method includes a scan block that scans typo samples using tracer technology e.g. URL tracer technology . Such scanning can operate a network of virtual machines on a host machine. When a list of typo domain names is dropped into a queue a daemon process running on the host machine can fetch the list and launch virtual machines to visit each domain name in the list. To avoid interference due to ill behaved pop up ads and latent scripts the daemon process can restart a new virtual machine from a pre configured clean state before scanning the next domain name. Before destroying the previous instance of a virtual machine the daemon process can copy relevant recorded data to the host machine. The recorded data may include all secondary URLs visited and their ordering the content of all HTTP requests and responses a screenshot etc. Upon completing the scan of the entire list of domain names the daemon process can copy relevant data to an output folder on the host machine. While virtual machines are mentioned the method may use one or more alternative approaches. For example a set of isolated browser instances can be used where each instance processes a unique primary URL.

The method includes a rank block that ranks domain parking services using for example tracer technology e.g. URL tracer technology and a top domain name approach. A ranking process can use recorded relevant data e.g. as stored in an output folder for data queries and analysis. Types of analysis include 

 A Given lists of typo domain names belonging to a defined category an analysis can determine how heavily the category is being typo squatted and can identify dominant participants amongst domain parking services.

 B Given a target domain name an analysis divides its typo domain names into ranked sets according to the number of domain names parked with each of the parking services. Information such as client ID and anchor domain name can be used to further divide and rank the sets in order to help the owner of the target domain name prioritize an investigation. An anchor domain can be used to aggregate traffic from multiple typo domain names to simplify operations and to enable scalable typo squatting. For example typo domain names ComFedBnak.com LaSalleBanl.com and SovererignBank.com share the same anchor baankaccount.com . In most cases typo domain names sharing the same anchor domain name are registered to the same registrant according to the Whols database Whols.com Pte Ltd. in other cases anchor based analysis allows for discovering domain name registrants that share the same postal address and that are most likely aliases of the same entity e.g. company .

 C For analyses that require searching for specific keywords e.g. sexually explicit keywords used in the analysis an analysis of HTTP response pages occurs to extract all typo domain names that match a particular keyword or keywords.

The method includes a rank block for ranking domain parking service customers for example using client IDs in third party redirection URLs. As already mentioned some redirection URLs include a cid field. More generally some redirection URLs include a substring component that can be discovered and used to identify a client of a domain parking service. A particular example of this is the cid which exists in many redirection URLs. As discussed herein a substring can be any subcomponent of a redirection field and could even be a non static value. Accordingly the terms cid or cid field refer to any of a variety of possible substrings used for purposes of identifying an entity e.g. a client of a domain parking service . A domain parking service may embed a client ID in a third party redirection URL for purposes of accounting process implementation etc. Through analyses of information in a cid field various patterns emerge. For example cid field information has proven useful in identifying a particular cybersquatter as a client of a domain parking service.

Overall the method identifies domain parking services and or customers of a domain parking service using particular techniques. In addition to the aforementioned techniques various exemplary techniques described herein can identify domain parking services and or customers of a domain parking service. Further various exemplary techniques allow a user to gather information analyze gathered information and or block domain names based on such analyses.

Two particular exemplary techniques are referred to herein as vertical analysis and horizontal analysis. These two techniques can assess the prevalence of typo squatting and identify domain parking services involved in typo squatting. The vertical analysis uses a single type of typos for a large number of target domain names while the horizontal analysis uses multiple types of typos for a smaller set of target domain names.

In a particular example the vertical analysis technique scanned missing dot typos of the top 10 000 most popular domain names as measured by an opt in toolbar and showed that 5 094 51 of the 10 000 typo domain names were active at the time of the scan. Typo domain name customers were linked with parking domain service providers based on ads served. The parking domain services were then ranked according to their respective number of typo domain names. From this analysis two parking domain services covered approximately 40 of the active typo domain names and the top six parking domain services together accounted for more than half about 59 of the active domain names and about 30 of the artificially generated missing dot typo domains.

In a particular example the horizontal analysis was used to analyze two sets of target domain names the first set consisted of 30 target domain names for popular sites and the second set consisted of 30 high risk target domain names associated with phishing attacks. For each target domain name the horizontal analysis scanned its typo neighborhood composed of typo domain names generated from the five typo generation models A E of block of . In the two sets of scans 71 2 233 3 136 and 42 1 596 3 780 of the generated typo domain names were active respectively the top six domain parking services remained the same across all three sets of data except for minor re ordering of ranking the top two domain parking services stood out statistically and the overall numbers for the top six domain parking services remain fairly consistent i.e. the six together accounted for 40 to 70 of active typo domain names and around 30 of all generated typos .

As explained the method and various techniques can scan a large number of typo domain names monitor third party URL traffic and group the domain names by behind the scenes domain parking service servers to facilitate further investigation. Further some domain parking services provide additional information in their third party URLs i.e. secondary URLs that can facilitate further analysis.

A horizontal analysis provided tens of anchor domain names. An analysis of traffic aggregation through these anchor domain names identified two client IDs used by a particular cybersquatter one client ID for the typo domain names and the other client ID for the anchor domain names. The analysis continued by extracting all scanned domains parked with the identified domain parking service that used the two client IDs. Using a service known as Whols Whols Pte Ltd. one may enter a domain name and identify the owner. For the horizontal analysis Whols queries verified that almost all of the domain names were registered to the particular cybersquatter.

The cybersquatting technologies are grouped loosely according to function. For example the technologies and can be part of an exemplary browser application whereas the technologies and pertain to services for use by any of a variety of parties. Technologies and can uncover or police the Internet for cybersquatters and related practices while technology pertains to proxy logs. Various technologies in may be implemented as modules such as software modules.

The browser history patrol technology allows a user to re visit one or more URLs as recorded in a browser history file while recording all third party redirections. Thus a browser application may include a browser history patrol technology module that allows a user to re visit one or more recorded URLs for purposes of identifying one or more URLs that may have been responsible for serving inappropriate content and or responsible for installing a spyware program or another malicious program.

The secondary URL technology the final destination URL technology and the redirection URL technology can be part of or otherwise supported by the browser history patrol technology . For example a browser history patrol module can classify information acquired during a re visit to a recorded URL as pertaining to a secondary URL a final destination URL and or a redirection URL.

The browser URL analysis tool may aid in such classifications based on particular characteristics of information acquired during a re visit. For example a browser URL analysis tool can search URL strings acquired during a re visit to identify information such as client IDs. Such a tool may be implemented as a feature e.g. an add on feature or a built in feature of a browser application and it may be part of a browser URL history patrol module .

An exemplary browser application includes a browser URL history patrol module that records information during an initial visit to a URL and or during a subsequent visit to a URL. For example an exemplary browser application can receive a user command to display a history of visited primary URLs. Upon clicking on a primary URL the browser application can display one or more non primary URLs associated with the primary URL. Such non primary URLs may be color coded or arranged with respect to function or perceived function . For example for a given primary URL non final destination non primary URLs may appear in a one color while a final destination URL may appear in a different color e.g. red . Further such a display may provide a user with an opportunity to access one or more of the URLs e.g. clicking on a URL .

With respect to accessing one or more URLs recorded by a browser URL history patrol module an exemplary URL analysis tool can create an instance of a secure virtual machine or other secure environment that includes security features that help to ensure visitation to a URL does not corrupt an underlying operating system and or an underlying virtual machine. The tool can optionally create a secure environment for purposes of allowing code or content changes associated with a suspect URL to occur or to be examined without posing a risk to the underlying host machine.

The final destination URL technology may be implemented as a software module as a feature of a browser application or as an add on feature for a browser application. While a top domain view was discussed with respect to block a final destination URL module can address situations where a top domain view contains too much noise. The final destination URL technology may be implemented as part of the URL tracing technology of . In general a final destination URL view can provide a cleaner subset of URLs for analysis. A final destination URL is a special case of a third party redirection URL. The final destination URL normally appears in a browser application s browser address bar when all redirections have occurred.

In many instances a final destination URL is the most important third party URL because it ultimately determines the final content displayed by a user s browser application. Noting however scenarios exist where a primary URL remains displayed in a browser application s address bar even when content is fetched from one or more other third party servers.

The HTML frame view technology can address scenarios where a HTML frame is used and as a result the final destination URL does not represent the main page shown to the user. A HTML frame view module can record the URL being associated with a HTML frame and indicate instances where a HTML frame is used to fill the entire browser display area. In the case where a HTML frame is used to fill the entire browser display area an exemplary browser URL analysis tool can visit the URL associated with the HTML frame and then record any action in conjunction with display of the HTML frame.

The redirection URL technology can group primary URLs which do not generate any significant third party domain traffic by their intra domain redirection URL set. For example both of these two typo domain names share the same set and therefore belong to the same group 

The redirection URL technology can be implemented as a feature of a browser application or as an add on to a browser application. An exemplary redirection URL module can parse a redirection URL to identify an associated redirection URL set and can then use the identified set to classify one or more other typo domain names for example as belonging to the same class and likely to the same cybersquatter.

While the examples given for the redirection URL technology pertain to typo domain names such technology can classify composite domain names e.g. consider microsoftoutlook.com as an example of a composite domain name a cybersquatter may try to use .

The cybersquatting technology includes an IP address analysis tool that can perform IP address based grouping. Such a tool may perform IP subnet based grouping and or a Whols registrant based grouping. Groupings based on IP address or registrant information can be complementary to a top domain view and a final destination view. The IP address analysis tool can provide views that group domain names by cybersquatter owner.

The domain blocking technology can be implemented as feature of a browser application or as an add on to a browser application. The domain blocking technology optionally operates in conjunction with one or more other technologies described with respect to . For example if a tool identifies a URL as being associated with a cybersquatter such information may be communicated automatically or otherwise recorded for use by a domain name blocking module . In such an example once a third party domain name has been determined to be questionable or malicious the domain name blocking module can prevent any browser instances from visiting the blocked domain name e.g. directly and or indirectly .

With respect to implementation of domain name blocking an exemplary browser can maintain a black list of domain names that it will not visit or an exemplary operating system can block connections to a black listed domain name. As proxy servers in an environment can nullify the latter approach browsers connect to a proxy which then connects to the URL an exemplary proxy server blocks black listed domain names. Yet another approach communicates questionable domain names to a corresponding domain registrar for removal of these domain names from one or more servers.

The cyber squat patrol technology pertains to techniques applicable to non typo domain name cybersquatters. For example composite domain names are examples of domain names that have been used by cybersquatters. In general analyses with respect to such domain names require more information than analyses with respect to typo domain names. An exemplary cyber squat patrol technology optionally operates in conjunction with a trademark database where trademarks associated with a particular owner are selected and combined in various manners and entered into a browser application. A database query such as a query for the Whols database or a TLD Top Level Domain database may be used to find all domain names containing a certain substring associated with a trademark or trademarks. The cyber squat patrol technology can be implemented in conjunction with one or more other technologies discussed herein.

An exemplary method includes providing a list of registered domain names providing a trademark applying one or more algorithms that mimic typographical errors to the registered domain names or to the trademark to generate typographically erroneous domain names or typographically erroneous versions of the trademark respectively and identifying from the first of registered domain names one or more typographically erroneous registered domain names for the trademark. In turn the method may include blocking web browser access to at least one of the one or more typographically erroneous registered domain names for the trademark. With respect to algorithms that mimic typographical errors such algorithms may transpose two characters replace a character with a neighboring character on a QWERTY keyboard delete a character etc.

The proxy log technology uses information acquired from or relating to one or more proxy servers. A proxy server is a computer that offers a computer network service to allow clients to make indirect network connections to other network services. For example a client can connect to a proxy server and then requests a connection file or other resource available on a different server. The proxy provides a resource either by connecting to a specified server or by serving the resource from a cache. In some instances a proxy server may alter a client s request or a server s response for various purposes. The proxy log technology can record proxy information. Such information can be optionally used in combination with one or more other technologies discussed herein.

The technologies of can operate in conjunction with or as part of the URL tracer technology described with respect to to provide users with visibility and control over third party traffic.

The method commences in a provision block that provides potential cybersquatting URLs. A trace block traces the URLs for example using the URL tracer technology of . An analysis block analyzes URLs uncovered by the tracing for client IDs. Another analysis block analyzes the client IDs in association with domain parking services. A list block can list or classify cybersquatting URLs with domain name owner s and or domain parking service s .

Given some cybersquatting URLs and optionally ownership and or domain parking service information a reverse logic block see e.g. the block of can analyze the URLs for techniques used to generate typo domain names and or composite domain names. For example the reverse logic block may compare associated URLs e.g. based on ownership and determine one or more logical rules that could be used to generate at least some of the URLs. The reverse logic block may then apply the rule s to generate more potential cybersquatting URLs. Such additional URLs may be provided by the provision block for another round of analysis. The loop from providing to reverse logic analysis may repeat until the reverse logic block fails to determine a new rule or to generate one or more new domain names.

With respect to reverse logic the block may use an algorithm that determines whether a domain name can be transformed to a legitimate domain name e.g. a trademark or other popular term within a certain number of iterations. For example given the domain name microsfto.com such an algorithm can move each letter successively by one space e.g. in a loop where the number of iterations may be determined by the number of characters in the domain name i.e. the portion prior to .com . Such an analysis may determine that a particular cybersquatter simply selects a character and moves that character to the end of a word. In turn this information can be used to help identify domain names associated with the particular cybersquatter and to generate other typo domain names likely to be associated with the particular cybersquatter.

As indicated by the view module block various URL related technologies and may be used in conjunction with the method . Further as indicated by the management features block various management technologies and may be used in conjunction with the method . For example the list block can communicate URLs to an ownership database which in turn can communicate information to a subscription service . The subscription service can provide domain names to browser applications e.g. via a network such that a domain blocking feature of the browser application can block the domain names.

With respect to blocking domain names an exemplary browser application or an exemplary subscription service can allow a user to choose one or more criteria for use in selecting domain names to block. For example if a user is not interested in adult content then the user may select an appropriate criterion that causes a subscription service or a browser application to load domain names associated with adult content to a domain blocking feature of the user s browser application. While adult content may be a popular criterion a user may select from any of a variety of criteria including jewelry magazine subscriptions movie information surveys politics etc.

As content served by a typo domain name or composite domain name may change over time or be adaptive with respect to history of users connecting e.g. user address range a subscription service may provide periodic updates for domain names.

While the example of refers to a particular reverse logic technique a method may use an exemplary techniques that builds a list of candidate typographically erroneous names by starting from a list of all registered domains and a list of known trademarks and then determining which elements in the first list are likely modifications of items in the second list for example using a broader set of algorithms. Such a technique can further use one or more algorithms to generate domain names from a set of known trademarks which in turn allows one to identify domain names from an otherwise very large space of possibly erroneous names.

The secure virtual machine module can create an instance of a virtual machine in a secure environment and display a secure GUI . In the example of the GUI includes a frame e.g. HTML frame with a yes and a no button for responding to the question Install Free Adware . As previously mentioned the underlying script for the buttons of the frame may be corrupt. However in such a secure environment the user can make a selection and then investigate further any subsequent actions. Such a process can help a user maintain or fix a computer that has been victimized by malware.

An exemplary method includes a recordation block that records information during a web browsing session. After recordation a display block displays a primary URL and a final destination URL or other URL associated with the primary URL . A creation block creates an instance of a browser application in a secure environment and a visitation block directly visits the final destination URL using the browser application. In such a method the display block can access a browsing history file where the browsing history file includes the primary URL and the final destination URL or one or more other URLs . As already mentioned a user may wish to block a URL or domain name. Thus the method may include blocking the primary URL based at least in part on content displayed by the browser application during the visiting the final destination URL. Alternatively or in addition to the method may block the final destination URL based at least in part on content displayed by the browser application during the visiting the final destination URL.

An exemplary method may include determining if a primary URL corresponds to a typographically erroneous domain name and or include determining if the primary URL corresponds to a composite domain name for example that includes a trademark. Where a composite domain name includes a trademark a method may determine if the owner of the composite domain name owns the trademark. In turn a method may block a composite domain name if the owner of the domain name and the owner of the trademark differ.

For every URL displayed in either of the views the module provides a right click menu with two options i a Go option that allows the URL to be revisited so that the user can figure out which ad came from which URL and ii a Block option that allows blocking of all future traffic to and from that domain.

The exemplary browser application can be used in any of a variety of scenarios. An exemplary method for parental control allows a parent to record URL information per a record block . When the parent notices inappropriate ads being displayed to a child the parent can use the module to scan recently visited URLs per a scan block as recorded in the record block . For example the parent may select the Go or Block option from the URL Scan History view. In a determination block the parent can determine which ads server was responsible for serving the inappropriate ads. The parent can then select to block one or more domain names per the action block to thereby protect the child s future browsing activities.

The user e.g. trademark owner can then use any of a variety of the view technologies e.g. top domain names view to identify those parking services that are heavily involved per identification block . Once identified the user can take appropriate action per the action block . For example such action may consider use of legal or other resources in a most efficient manner to address one or more entities involved in cybersquatting.

Such a domain parking based analysis provides an efficient and low cost solution for owners to file multi domain complaints with major parking services for example to request banning of typo domain names from their parking programs.

Together with IP address based grouping e.g. block of such analysis also facilitates grouping of multiple typo domain names that are owned by the same registrant and or hosted by the same ISP. This makes it easier for trademark owners to file multi domain disputes against typo domain registrants and to send multi domain takedown notices to the hosting ISPs.

An exemplary module e.g. optionally a browser module or add on can include features to help identify those typo squatters who are redirecting traffic back to the target websites through their traffic affiliate programs as an alternative way to profit from typo squatting. For example the typo domain name oveestock.com redirects to the domain name click.linksynergy.com which in turn redirects to the target site overstock.com with a siteID field similarly the domain name verizonwirewless.com redirects to the domain name service.bfast.com and then to the target verizonwireless.com with a vendorid field in the URL verizonwirelesa.com redirects to clickserve.cc dt.com and then to verizonwireless.com .

Various technologies described herein can be applied to non typo questionable domain names as well which may be obtained from the Whols database reverse IP lookups DNS zone files services that monitor new domain registrations etc. For example by scanning a list of 3 990 cybersquatting domain names all of which contain the full name of the target company as a substring in their domain names an analysis determined that 2 938 of the domain names were active and that six domain parking services together parked 949 of these domain names i.e. 32 . Again the top two stood out as parking 509 17 of the domain names and as parking 321 11 of the domain names. Such evidence uncovered using various exemplary techniques reveals that the involvement of some domain parking services in the cybersquatting business may go far beyond simple typo squatting.

As described herein domain name blocking can be implemented as part of a browser application that can use browsing history as an online on demand resource for deciding which domain names to block. For example Firefox browser application users can use the userContent.css file to block selected domains and INTERNET EXPLORER browser application Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. users typically use WINDOWS hosts files to block unwanted ads. Because the advertising business is an important part of Internet economy that supports free information wholesale blocking would be problematic. Instead exemplary technologies described herein allow a user to determine which ad came from which domain and allow a user to implement on demand domain blocking to discourage advertising companies from serving questionable ads.

Third party URLs have been used by malicious websites to execute and install malcode on client machines and by advertising and web analytics companies to implement web beacons or web bugs to track users browsing behaviors. As described herein various exemplary technologies can expose behind the scenes exploiters that pretend to be advertisement syndicators but serve vulnerability exploiting scripts instead of ads.

As described herein various exemplary view technologies e.g. top domain names view etc. can be used to expose web beacons. For example consider a set of primary URLs grouped under a single third party domain e.g. about 10 or so and the fact that an externally visible IP address of the user s machine has remained static. Under such circumstances a report to a third party may indicate that the IP address has visited the set of URLs which may raise privacy concerns if appropriate privacy statements are not posted. Even in the instance where the IP address is not static third party cookies can be used to provide correlation. An exemplary module causes a browser application to highlight all websites that use cookies in a bright red color to alert users of a potential privacy concern.

Various technologies discussed herein help provide visibility into cybersquatting including typo squatting business practices. Various technologies may be implemented in conjunction with or as part of a browser application. Such an exemplary equipped browser application can allow parents to protect their children by blocking domain names that are serving harmful material to minors. Various exemplary technologies can provide a light weight typo patrol feature or more generally a cyber patrol feature that allows an owner of a popular website s to monitor potential trademark violations.

Various exemplary technologies can be used by domain parking services to help enforce their policies by uncovering systematic cyber squatting domain names that participate in their parking programs and to identify large scale cybersquatters among their customers.

The computing device shown in is only one example of a computer environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the computer and network architectures. Neither should the computer environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the example computer environment.

With reference to one exemplary system for implementing an exemplary cybersquatter management system or a method for uncovering and or managing URLs associated with cybersquatters includes a computing device or uses a computing device such as computing device in a very basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

The operating system may include a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API such as that of the .NET Framework manufactured by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Thus computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well know in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Various modules and techniques may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

One skilled in the relevant art may recognize however that the techniques described herein may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods resources materials etc. In other instances well known structures resources or operations have not been shown or described in detail merely to avoid obscuring aspects of various exemplary techniques.

While various examples and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the techniques are not limited to the precise configuration and resources described above. Various modifications changes and variations apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and systems disclosed herein without departing from their practical scope.

