---

title: Preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network
abstract: A system for preventing an unauthorized user in a networked computing environment includes a client computer provided with a visual test upon a request transmitted through a network by the client computer for a service, wherein the visual test is displayed on a video display, wherein the visual test requires the performance of a predetermined action on a group of images displayed on the video display in order to gain access to the service, wherein the group of images comprises at least two images that are associated with each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08505071&OS=08505071&RS=08505071
owner: Disney Enterprises, Inc.
number: 08505071
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070530
---
Many computer users currently use various types of networked computing services that require a form of registration or authentication. Typically registration for the service dictates that the user provide information such as name a user name an address a password etc. Authentication for the service may include requiring the user to provide a user name and password. For many networked computing services authentication may also require the user to establish that the user is a human being and that the user is in fact the authorized user for the service.

E mail is an example of a networked computing service that is available to many users connected on a network. The user connects his or her computer to the Internet through an Internet Service Provider ISP . The user can then open an e mail account through any number of e mail services. Many of these e mail services have a registration process in which the user must provide information such as a name a user name an address etc. in order to open an e mail account. Once an e mail account is opened the computer user can then send and receive messages from other computer users that use the Internet.

A continuing problem facing Internet users is receiving e mail called SPAM. SPAM is essentially junk e mail that has relatively little worth to most e mail users. E mail users must spend a great deal of time looking through and deleting these unwanted e mails from their mailboxes in order to keep their mailboxes from exceeding size limits imposed by ISP s. Further SPAM expends a great deal of bandwidth on the Internet. A large number of resources are needed for transmitting and receiving junk e mail. As a result Internet resources that are used for more useful data flow have slower response times and are less efficient.

SPAM can be propagated in many different ways. One of the main causes of SPAM is computers that use scripts to impersonate users. During the registration process for an e mail address a computer can use a script to generate multiple e mail addresses that do not even have a corresponding human user. These multiple e mail addresses can then be used by the computer to send unwanted e mail messages to other Internet users.

Computers can also be used to run scripts that send out multiple e mail messages from a user generated e mail address or from a script generated e mail address to the same set of recipients. A computer user would take a great deal of time to send out a large number of e mail messages to a set of recipients. On the other hand a computer running a script can transmit e mail messages at the speed that it would take thousands of computer users to perform the same task in the same amount of time.

Another area of services in which scripts pose a large problem is internet voting services and Internet contests. The Internet has many web pages in which users can participate in a poll. For instance users can vote for their favorite musician artist athlete etc. The user can always return to the web page and vote another time but the chances are small that most users will bother trying to vote again. However a computer can use a script to vote a large number of times in a very small amount of time. The result is that the voting results are skewed a by a large amount. Further a user that enters a contest will almost never win if a script places thousands of entries into the same contest.

While the above mentioned examples of networked computing services are susceptible to automated programs there are many other instances in which it is desirable to authenticate the user of the networked service and to establish that the user of the networked service is a human being.

A computer running a script is one class if invalid user. Another class of invalid user may be a human being that may have been hired to defeat the authentication process for a particular computer service. In such an instance it is not only desirable that the authentication process be capable of defeating an automated script but also that the authentication process be capable of discerning between the authorized human user and an unauthorized human being that is attempting to defeat the authentication process.

Some approaches to solving the problem of computers running scripts involve the use of authentication schemes. For instance a randomly selected string can be modified so that only a human user will be able to guess the result. A string of text can be rearranged over a shaded background so that the user can pick out the text. The user is then required to type in the text that stands out from the background.

A number of problems exist with these types of authentication schemes. Computer users do not want to spend the time to perform tedious tasks such as typing in a string of text to authenticate themselves. Further the static feature of this type of test allows more advanced image filtering programs to decipher the string. Finally e mail software that is dependent on a character set may make international deployment difficult. Further while somewhat effective against an automated script such an approach is ineffective against an unauthorized human being attempting to defeat the authentication process.

Embodiments of the invention include a system for preventing an unauthorized user in a networked computing environment. The system includes a server that can provide access to a service wherein the service is stored on a memory associated with server a software module stored on the server wherein the software module provides a visual test upon a request transmitted through a network for the service wherein the visual test includes the performance of a predetermined action on a group of images in order to gain access to the service a validation software module stored on the server wherein the validation software module receives a request from the software module for the group of images wherein the validation software module selects the group of images to be transmitted to the software module wherein the validation software module provides the software module with the group of images and an access software module wherein the access software module receives an access instruction from the validation software module if the visual test is passed wherein the server provides access to the service if the visual test is passed.

In another embodiment a system for preventing an unauthorized user in a networked computing environment includes a client computer provided with a visual test upon a request transmitted through a network by the client computer for a service wherein the visual test is displayed on a video display wherein the visual test requires the performance of a predetermined action on a group of images displayed on the video display in order to gain access to the service and wherein the group of images comprises at least two images that are associated with each other.

Other embodiments are also provided. Other systems methods features and advantages of the invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network will be described in the context of reducing e mail SPAM and preventing the unauthorized use of an email account. However the system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network is applicable to all networked computing services in which it is desirable to verify that the user is a human being and to authenticate the user. The system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network effectively distinguishes between human users and computer scripted users and also effectively distinguishes between an authorized and an unauthorized human user. The system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network make it difficult for automated scripts or any other automated computer programs to use image filtering programs to gain access to computing services. The system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network also make it difficult for unauthorized individuals to defeat an authentication system to gain access to computing services. These unauthorized individuals may be hired to defeat the authentication system or may just be so called hackers that attempt to defeat an authentication system.

The system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network can be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. When implemented in hardware the system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network can be implemented using specialized hardware elements and logic. When the system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network is implemented in software the software can be used to control the various components in a system and network associated with the program. The software can be stored in a memory and executed by a suitable instruction execution system microprocessor . The hardware implementation of the system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network can include any or a combination of the following technologies which are all well known in the art discrete electronic components a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit having appropriate logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The software for the system and method for preventing automated programs and unauthorized users in a network comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions and can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions.

In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus method process or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory magnetic an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

The sending client authorized user and the unauthorized user connect to a server through a network such as the Internet . One of ordinary skill in the art will also recognize that this system and method can work in any type of network configuration including but not limited to a wireless network local area network LAN wide area network WAN etc. By connecting to the server the sending client is able to use an e mail service to compose an e mail message. The authorized user is able to use a networked computing service and the unauthorized user is also able to use a networked computing service. The server is connected to a database which stores data such as the inbox of the sending client . The database can also store data such as an address book so that the user can send an e mail to another user without having to remember the other user s e mail address.

Using email as an example after the user composes the e mail message the user presses a send button not shown to instruct the e mail service to send the e mail message to another e mail address. The e mail message is then routed through the Internet to the appropriate e mail address. A spam receiving client then receives the e mail message.

While the receiving client is a computer that has a user who wanted to receive an e mail message from the sending client many computer users receive unwanted SPAM. One of the propagators of SPAM is a script sending client that uses a script to impersonate human users. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the script can be written using any known computer language. After the script sending client connects to the server through the Internet the script sending client can compose a large number of e mail messages in a short period of time using the e mail service . As a result a large number of e mail messages can be transmitted through the Internet to a SPAM receiving client .

In order for a computer user to use the account registration application the e mail application the poll application the contest application or any other application restricted in a like manner the computer user must prove that the computer user is human as opposed to the script and that the computer user is the authorized computer user. An authentication system will now be discussed for differentiating the authorized human computer user from the script and from an unauthorized computer user .

Restrictions on the use of certain applications stored on the authentication server may invoke a visual application . An example of a visual application is a flash application. Further in an embodiment the visual application may have an audio component or an audio visual component. The visual application will provide a visual test for the computer user to pass in order for the restriction to be met. In an embodiment the visual application provides a visual test when a user attempts to register for an e mail account using the account registration application . In other embodiments the visual application provides a visual test when a user attempts to use any computing service that is available on the authentication server . The authentication server will ensure that all users that register for e mail accounts are human users not automated scripts and that the users are authorized users. Further the authentication server will ensure that all users that attempt to use any networked computing service associated with the authentication server are human users not automated scripts and that the users are authorized users. The authentication server can be programmed with stringent requirements at the outset to preemptively minimize or eliminate unauthorized users. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the visual application is meant to include future developments in graphics software. Future development may lead to graphics software that is even more difficult for image filtering programs to defeat.

In an embodiment using email as an example a computer user submits identification information e.g. name user name address etc. through the account registration application . After entering all of the information the user indicates that the information is complete by pressing a button such as a send button a complete button a done button etc. The visual application then provides a visual test prior to submitting the information for establishing the e mail account or providing the service. In an embodiment the visual application displays a screen that has a randomly selected shaped object positioned at a randomly selected position therein. In another embodiment the shaped object is a geometric shape. In another embodiment the shaped object is a cartoon character. For instance the shaped object can be a recognizable cartoon character. In another embodiment the shaped object can be a graphically imaged character. For instance an image of a person pet object etc. can be graphically encoded to be used as the shaped object. In another embodiment the shaped object is a graphical icon. For instance images that are displayed on a computer can be used as the shaped object. In yet another embodiment the visual application displays a screen that has a randomly selected non textual image positioned at a randomly selected position therein.

In another embodiment the visual application creates a game that is visually displayed or presented in an audio form and that can be culture specific. In this manner the visual application can deny access to the computing service to a non human script generating program and to a human that may be attempting to defeat the authentication process associated with the computing service.

Examples of games that may be provided by the visual application include for example a game that requires the user to pair images that are similar or in other respects associated with each other. Certain human knowledge is required to successfully pair the images and win the game such as recognizing an image is a piece of pie an apple or a flag. This method excels in the context that human beings possess more complicated knowledge and sense that cannot be imitated by machine intelligence. For example human beings can easily recognize cartoon characters that are related to other scenes and characters in the same movie.

To prevent individuals hired by contracted outsourcing companies from compromising the authentication process an implementation of the invention can be culture specific to the targeted country. For example images of a pie a baseball and a maple leaf are arranged for users to select related items. For users in the United States it would be straight forward to recognize that the pie and baseball are specific to American culture and that a maple leaf is specific to Canadian culture. For individuals in another region of the world the culture implication may not be obvious.

The computer user selects the shape or image with a mouse pointer or other input device to pass the visual test. In an embodiment the user selects the shape within a given time limit. In another embodiment if the user does not select the shape within the given time limit the display screen is erased and another randomly selected shape appears at another randomly selected position within the display screen. In yet another embodiment the randomly selected shapes at randomly selected positions are chosen and erased for a predetermined number of times. If the user has not chosen the correct shape within the pre determined number of displays of randomly selected shapes displayed in randomly selected positions the user is not allowed to register for an e mail account.

In another embodiment a user is presented with a variety of images in which one or more of the images are generally associated via a cultural or intuitive connection. For example three images may be presented to the user in which two of the images are of cartoon characters that are generally associated together and in which a third image is of a cartoon character from a different category that the first two images. A non limiting example is presenting images of three American recognizable cartoon characters two of which are culturally or otherwise related to each other while the third of which is not culturally or otherwise related to the other two to the user. A user familiar with American cartoons will associate the two related cartoon characters with each other and will recognize that the third cartoon character does not belong with the other two cartoon characters. In another non limiting example users in the United States would likely recognize that apple pie and baseball are specific to American culture and that a maple leaf is specific to Canadian culture. For individuals in another region of the world the cultural implication will likely not be obvious. The images that are presented to the user can be culturally and or intuitively relevant. While three images are described herein as being presented as a group of images to a user the group of images may include more than three images.

The use of the visual application to generate the visual test makes the use of image filtering programs very difficult. In an embodiment the visual application only appears to display one shape or one series of images to the user on the display screen. However the visual application actually provides a variety of shapes and images to the display screen which are positioned in different layers of the display screen. In an embodiment the user only sees one shape or one series of images on the display screen but an image filtering program would see a large number of shapes to choose from.

In another embodiment the visual application displays at least three images to the user on the display screen. At least two of the displayed images are culturally intuitively or otherwise related while the third image is not so related to the other two images. An image filtering program or a user of a different culture would have great difficulty determining the relevance of the images and in selecting the culturally and or intuitively relevant images.

In this embodiment the visual test is not limited to any particular images. Any set of images in which one or more of the images is distinguishable from the other images can be used. Preferably the images are selected to have a particular cultural and or intuitive relevance that would prevent an automated program or script or a user of a different cultural background from selecting the relevant image or images.

The visual test is not limited to a randomly selected shape appearing at a randomly selected position or to any particular type of image or images. In an alternative embodiment the visual test is a randomly selected shape that moves from one position in the display screen to a variety of different positions in the display screen. In this embodiment the user must catch the moving object by placing the mouse pointer over the moving object and by pressing the mouse button when the mouse pointer is over the moving object. An image filtering program will have an even more difficult time determining the location of a moving object and also determining the coordinates for the movement of the mouse pointer to catch the moving object. In yet another embodiment the visual test requires the dragging of an object from a starting position to an ending position. An image filtering program would have great difficulty finding the location of the randomly selected object determining the distance that the object has to be moved and providing the coordinates for the positions that the mouse has to drag the object with. In yet another embodiment the user drags multiple objects together. For example the user may have to drag one dot to touch another. The user may also have to put pieces of a puzzle together. In yet another embodiment a user can shoot an object such as a ball at a target. The user may also be able to use a computerized gun or projectile propagator to send a computerized bullet or computerized projectile at a target in order to pass the visual test. For example the user may play a computerized basketball game to shoot a computerized basketball into a hoop to pass the visual test. The user may also be required to play computerized games such as pinball to pass the visual test.

In yet another embodiment the visual application can provide a visual test when a user attempts to use the e mail application to send an e mail message. The authentication server will attempt to prevent automated scripts from sending messages to a large number of recipients. On the other hand the authentication server may allow a human user to send a large number of messages. In an embodiment a computer user composes an e mail message and presses a send button in a graphical user interface GUI . If the number of recipients is greater than a predetermined number of recipients then the visual application displays a visual test in the GUI. In an embodiment the visual test is displayed in the same GUI that displays the e mail message that is being composed. In another embodiment the visual test is displayed in a separate GUI from the GUI that displays the e mail message.

In another embodiment the visual application can provide a visual test when a user attempts to use the poll application . After the computer user presses a vote button displayed in a GUI the visual application can display a visual test that the computer user must pass before the authentication server will actually place the vote. In another embodiment the computer user must pass the visual test before having the opportunity to place a vote. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the poll application can be any of a wide variety of computer applications in which a vote is placed.

In another embodiment the visual application can provide a visual test when a user attempts to use the contest application to enter a contest. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the contest can be a game sweepstakes etc. Further one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the contest can be with or without a prize winning.

In yet another embodiment the visual application can provide a visual test for any type of service that can be provided through a network. The visual application can even be used as an extra layer of security for accessing secure web pages. For example the visual test can be used as an extra layer of protection besides the use of a user name and a password.

The visual application generates the visual or audio visual test for the account registration application the e mail application the poll application or the contest application by communicating with a validation module . In an embodiment the validation module is a validation application programming interface API . In order to create a visual test the visual application requests a series of randomly selected images in which at least two of the images are culturally or intuitively related and a third image that is not so related to the first two images. The images include information allowing the visual application to identify the images and to identify whether the images are correctly chosen by the user.

In another embodiment the visual application requests a randomly selected geometric shape from the validation module . Subsequently the validation module provides the series of randomly selected images or a randomly selected geometric shape and an ID to the visual application . In an embodiment the ID is a transaction ID. In yet another embodiment the ID is a unique user identification. An example of a unique user identification is a cookie. In another embodiment the ID is an Internet Protocol IP address. In yet another embodiment the ID is an IP address and the date that a request for services was sent.

In an embodiment the validation module requests the series of randomly selected images or a randomly selected geometric shape from an authentication application which can access an image database . In yet another embodiment the validation module communicates directly with the image database .

The ID is a textual string used for identifying the randomly selected images or the geometric shape that was sent to the visual application at a specific time. The ID also contains information relating to the relationship among the selected images so that the visual application can discern whether the user has correctly chosen the image or images that would result in a successful combination and allow the user to be authenticated. In an embodiment the validation module retains a copy of the ID and the randomly selected images or the geometric shape in a memory associated with the validation module for future lookup. The validation module then sends the randomly selected images or the geometric shape and the ID to the visual application . In an embodiment the validation module encrypts the data that the validation module provides to the visual application . One of ordinary skill in the art will be familiar with the different encryption algorithms. After receiving and decrypting the data if necessary the visual application determines where to display the series of images on the display of the GUI. In another embodiment the visual application determines a random position within the display of the GUI in which to display the randomly selected geometric shape. In another embodiment the validation module also randomly selects a variety of additional geometric shapes that can be positioned by the visual application at different layers of the GUI. As discussed above the use of the additional geometric shapes at different layers of the GUI will help prevent image filtering programs from passing the visual test. In yet another embodiment the visual application can randomly select the geometric shape and or the additional geometric shapes.

The visual application can set different criteria for passing the visual test. In an embodiment the computer user must select the two related images or the randomly selected and randomly positioned geometric shape within a given time period. If the computer user does not select the two related images the randomly selected and randomly positioned geometric shape or whatever game is implemented within the given time period the computer user does not pass the visual test. If the computer user selects the two related images or the randomly selected shape within the time period the visual application sends the two related images or the randomly selected shape chosen by the computer user along with the ID to the validation module . In an embodiment the two related images or the randomly selected shape and the ID are encrypted by the visual application prior to being sent to the validation module . After the validation module receives the two related images or the randomly selected geometric shape and the ID the validation module decrypts the two related images or the randomly selected geometric shape and the ID if necessary and compares the two related images or the randomly selected geometric shape and the ID that were received with the two related images or the randomly selected geometric shape and the ID that were stored in the memory associated with the visual application . If the comparison results in a match the computer user has passed the visual test. The validation module then sends an access instruction to the authentication application which allows the computer user to access the requested service. If the computer user is an automated script the computer user may attempt to guess the associated of the images or a shape and an ID to be sent to the validation module . Accordingly the validation module will compare the received images or shape and the ID with the two related images or the randomly selected shape and the ID that the validation module stored in memory. A pure guess by an automated script is unlikely to produce the two related images or the randomly selected shape and the ID. Therefore the validation module will likely find an incorrect comparison and deny the computer user access to the requested service.

In an embodiment the validation module will expire the ID for the two related images or the randomly selected geometric shape after a comparison is made regardless of whether or not the comparison is successful. If the computer user is an automated script the computer user may attempt to send a large number of guessed shapes and guessed ID s to the validation module . By expiring the current ID for two related images or a given randomly selected geometric shape the validation module further decreases the likelihood that an automated script will gain access to a requested service.

The authentication application is essentially a software program that prevents the computer user from accessing a requested service without meeting certain requirements. In an embodiment the authentication application provides permission to the visual application for the computer user to access the requested service. In yet another embodiment the visual application provides permission directly to the account registration application the e mail application the poll application or the contest application .

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the authentication system can be applied to other types of applications such as games videos music computer research etc. The authentication system can even be used to restrict the viewing of content on a web page.

The group of images is not limited to three images or to any particular subject or format. For example other images that possess some form of cultural intuitive or other distinction may be used depending on where the system is implemented. In an embodiment a set of directions is displayed so that the computer user is informed of the action that the computer user must take to pass the visual test displayed in the verification display . In this example the instructions may be select the two related images or select the image that does not belong. 

In an embodiment the set of directions is constructed according to criteria stored in the visual application . If the computer user performs the action as instructed by the set of directions in a given time period the composed e mail message is sent to the recipients. On the other hand if the computer user does not perform the requested action within the given time period the computer s e mail message does not get sent to the recipients based on the assumption that a human user would have been able to pass the visual test depicted in the verification display . In another embodiment the computer user is given multiple chances to pass the visual test. For instance a computer user may get up and walk away from the computer as the visual test is displayed. Therefore after the given time period has elapsed another group of images appears within the verification window. The computer user may only be given a predetermined number of chances. Each of these chances could comprise different visual tests. The visual test on the first chance may be to select the two images that are related while the visual test on the second chance may be to select the image that does not belong. The set of directions would change on each chance to inform the computer user of the requirements needed to pass the visual test. By varying the visual test on each chance given to the computer user an automated script has an even more difficult time in gaining access to the requested services. In yet another embodiment the computer user is only given subsequent chances if the computer user does not make an attempt at the visual test. In another embodiment the verification display is a separate screen from the visual display . In yet another embodiment the verification display is displayed in the same web browser but on a different web page from the visual display .

In another embodiment the visual application module will request a randomly selected shape from the validation module . In an embodiment the visual application displays a randomly selected shape that the visual application receives from the validation module in a verification display . A set of directions is displayed so that the computer user is informed of the action that the computer user must take to pass the visual test displayed in the verification display . In an embodiment the set of directions is constructed according to criteria stored in the visual application . If the computer user performs the action as instructed by the set of directions in a given time period the composed e mail message is sent to the recipients. On the other hand if the computer user does not perform the requested action within the given time period the computer s e mail message does not get sent to the recipients based on the assumption that a human user would have been able to pass the visual test depicted in the verification display . In another embodiment the computer user is given multiple chances to pass the visual test. For instance a computer user may get up and walk away from the computer as the visual test is displayed. Therefore after the given time period has elapsed another randomly selected shape appears within the verification window. The computer user will only be given a predetermined number of chances. Each of these chances could comprise different visual tests. The visual test on the first chance may be selecting a geometric object while the visual test on the second chance may be dragging a geometric object from a starting position to an ending position. The set of directions would change on each chance to inform the computer user of the requirements needed to pass the visual test. By varying the visual test on each chance given to the computer user an automated script has an even more difficult time in gaining access to the requested services. In yet another embodiment the computer user is only given subsequent chances if the computer user does not make an attempt at the visual test. In another embodiment the verification display is a separate screen from the visual display . In yet another embodiment the verification display is displayed in the same web browser but on a different web page from the visual display .

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that GUI s similar to the visual display can be constructed for services other than the e mail application e.g. the account registration application the poll application or the contest application . Further one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the visual display can be displayed on an LCD screen a plasma screen a PDA display and any other visual medium for displaying data.

After the visual application receives the group of images or the randomly selected geometric shape at the process block the visual application selects a random position within the verification display to display the group of images or the randomly selected geometric shape at a process block . The process then advances to a decision block where the process determines if the computer user has selected the desired image or images or the geometric shape within a predetermine maximum amount of time. If the computer user selects the desired image images or the geometric shape within the predetermined amount of time the process assumes that the computer user is a human user and sends the e mail. However if the computer user does not select the desired image images or the geometric shape within the predetermine amount of time the process assumes that the computer user is an automated script and does not send the e mail message. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other embodiments may include the variations discussed with respect to for providing the computer user with multiple chances after the maximum period of time has elapsed subject to a maximum number of chances.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible that are within the scope of the invention. The invention is not limited to a specific type of system and method for preventing automated programs in a network. For example the system and method for preventing automated programs in a network can be implemented with a variety of visual tests.

