---

title: Synchronized helper system using paired computing device
abstract: A helper system uses a computing device paired with a mobile computing device to provide help information associated with operation of the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device and the paired computing devices are synchronized so that the help information relevant to the current status of the mobile computing device is provided by the paired computing device. By providing the help information on the paired computing device, the user may conveniently access the user information without interrupting the use of application program running on the mobile computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311585&OS=08311585&RS=08311585
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08311585
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
The present disclosure relates generally to providing help information associated with operating a mobile computing device specifically to providing help information for a mobile computing device on another computing device paired with the mobile computing device and for allowing remote control and configuration of application programs on the mobile computing device.

As computing devices become more complex more users are relying on various sources of help information to properly operate the computing devices. One way of providing help information for operating the computing devices is manuals in the form of paper documents. The paper manuals are advantageous in that the user may conveniently access the help information without interrupting the operation of the computing device. It is however difficult to search and find the necessary help information in paper manuals. Further the paper manuals are bulky and difficult to carry around.

Another way of providing the help information for operating the computing devices is on device helper systems. The on device helper systems are programs executable on the computing device to search locate and display the help information as requested by the user. The on device helper systems have the advantage that the help information is always available on the computing device. The on device helper systems however must display the help information on the same display module of the computing device. Because the screen is occupied by the help windows or help menus of the on device helper systems the user must switch between the on device helper systems and the application program several times before properly operating the application program. Therefore the display of the help information interrupts the user from using the application program. The on device helper systems are especially problematic in mobile computing devices because the mobile computing devices generally have small screen sizes. Therefore only a limited amount of help information can be displayed on the mobile computing device and the user often has to scroll the screens or open new windows to obtain all of the necessary help information.

Some computing devices or application programs provide contextual helper system. The contextual helper system refers to a mechanism that allows the user to retrieve the help information of an application program by selecting a help icon or pull down menu from a window or a screen associated with the application program. The contextual helper system obviates the step of searching and finding the correct help information because the relevant help information is identified from the window or screen currently being displayed on the computing device. The contextual helper system however tends to be less comprehensive. The contextual help information also has the same disadvantage as the on device helper systems that is the help windows or help menus occupy the screen of the computing device and interrupts the user from operating the application program.

Another way of providing the help information is using a web helper system. The web helper system generally employs a browser to search and retrieve help information from a remote server. The web helper system is advantageous in that its help information is generally up to date and is comprehensive. The web helper system however requires online access to obtain the help information. The web helper system also has the same disadvantage as the on device helper systems and the contextual helper system the browser occupies the screen and interrupts the user from operating the application program.

Therefore among other deficiencies the present art lacks helper system providing contextual help information related to a mobile computing device to the user without interrupting the user s operation of the application program running on the mobile computing device.

Embodiments disclosed provide a helper system and method for a mobile computing device that operates in conjunction with a paired computing device. Status data representing the status of the user interface module of the mobile computing device is communicated to the paired computing device. Using the status data the paired computing device may display on its display device help information synchronized with the status of the user interface module of the mobile computing device.

In one embodiment the status data comprises screen identification data for identifying screen images displayed on the display module of the mobile computing device. Using the status data the paired computing device may determine the status of the mobile computing device or an application program running on the mobile computing device and provide the help information that is synchronized with the current status of the application program.

In one embodiment the paired computing device receives user inputs associated with the help information displayed on the paired computing device and sends the user inputs to the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may have user interface modules such as small keypads or touch screens that are inconvenient for the users to input a large amount of information. The paired computing device may have full keyboard or other user interface modules that allow users to input information more conveniently and efficiently compared to the user interface modules of the mobile computing device. The users may therefore use the user interface modules on the paired computing device displaying the help information to input the information back to the mobile computing device.

In one embodiment the paired computing device searches for the help information associated with the status data on its help information storage. Responsive to not finding the relevant help information on its help information storage or determining that the stored help information is outdated the paired computing device may search and retrieve the relevant help information from a remote server.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

A helper system is provided that uses a computing device paired with a mobile computing device to provide help information associated with the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device and the paired computing devices are synchronized so the help information relevant to the current status of the mobile computing device is displayed on the paired computing device. By providing the help information on the paired computing device the user may conveniently access the user information without interrupting the use of the application program running on the mobile computing device. The large screen of the paired computing device also allows more detailed help information or screen shots of the mobile computing device to be displayed so that the user may conveniently follow the instructions of the help information. The large screen of the paired computing device may also display user input fields e.g. text boxes or pull down menus that allow the user to conveniently provide user inputs associated with the mobile computing device using the user interface modules of the paired computing device.

A mobile computing device refers to any portable computing device having computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be devices including among other devices a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a game console an MP3 player and a mobile phone. The mobile computing device may also be referenced as a mobile client device or handheld computing device.

A paired computing device is a computing device that has a trust relationship with a mobile computing device. The trust relationship may be established by sharing a security code e.g. passkey in Bluetooth connections between the mobile computing device and the paired computing device. It is also possible to use technology other than Bluetooth connection to establish the trust relationship. The mobile computing device and the paired computing device may also be configured to recognize or detect each other s presence or proximity. The paired computing device may establish a synchronous communication session with the mobile computing device after receiving a request from the mobile computing device or may perform persistent or continuous synchronization with the mobile computing device.

Status data refers to data representing the status of the user interface module of the mobile computing device. The status data may include among other data screen identification data and dynamic status data of the application programs or the mobile computing device. An application program may display more than one type of screen images depending upon the various states of the application program running on the mobile computing device as well as the relevant user input and other various settings of the application program or the mobile computing device. The screen identification data identifies the states of the application program by identifying the screen being displayed on the mobile computing device. The status dynamic data indicates the current status of the application program or the mobile computing device. For example the dynamic data may indicate the state of the application program e.g. setup state or operating state resources of the mobile computing device currently available e.g. remaining memory space or remaining battery life or the identification of current application programs currently running on the mobile computing device.

In one embodiment the paired computing device is a companion device of the mobile computing device . The companion device may include a software daemon running on the background to instantly turn on the companion device i.e. no boot up time is needed for operation based on the communication with the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device and the paired computing device have a trust relationship that allows both devices to synchronize and exchange data. The trust relationship between the two devices may be implemented using the technique for examples as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 610 949 filed on Dec. 14 2006 entitled System and Method for Implementing Security Features and Policies Between Paired Computing Devices which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In one embodiment the communication channel between the mobile computing device and the paired computing device is established using technology such as Bluetooth technology Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX HTTP protocols IP telephony and Universal Serial Bus USB . The mobile computing device and the paired computing device communicate among other data the status data. The paired computing device receives the status data and displays on the paired computing device the help information relevant to the current status of the mobile computing device .

In one embodiment the remote server stores among other data the help information associated with the operation of the mobile computing device . The paired computing device communicates with the remote server to newly receive or update the help information stored on the paired computing device as described below with reference to . The remote server may also communicate with the mobile computing device via the network to perform various operations such as backing up the user data of the mobile computing device .

The memory module or other tangible computer readable medium stores program codes e.g. instructions to be executed by the central processor including but not limited to data associated with application programs operable on the mobile computing device . The memory module may be a non volatile type persistent memory such as a hard disk a compact flash or an EEPROM. The memory module may also be a volatile type such as a random access memory a buffer a cache a register a combination of non volatile and volatile memory or other device capable of storing instructions and data.

The central processor performs various operations according to the program codes stored in the memory module . The operations performed include among other instructions controlling of other components in the mobile computing device .

The transceiver communicates with base stations cell sites to send or receive messages. The transceiver may be a component adapted to communicate via a long range radio protocol such as Global System of Mobile GSM communication a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA communication a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS communication General Packet Radio Service GPRS third generation 3G mobile communication High Speed Download Packet Access HSDPA and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX .

The radio processor is coupled to the transceiver to process messages to be sent via the transceiver or radio signals received via the transceiver .

The short range radio module may be a wireless communication module including among other modules Bluetooth transceiver and Wireless Fidelity WiFi component. The short range radio module establishes the communication channel with the paired computing device . The status data of the mobile computing device is transmitted to the paired computing device via the short range radio module .

The display module displays screen images associated with various operations of the mobile computing device. The display module may be implemented using various display technology including among other technologies liquid crystal display LCD segment display e.g. seven segment or fourteen segment display organic light emitting diode OLED and bistatic displays e.g. electronic ink .

The application programs allow the user to perform various tasks using the mobile computing device . The application programs include among other programs video and music players e.g. Pocket Tunes Kinoma Windows Media Player RealPlayer iTunes PowerDVD QuickTime and Winamp web browsers e.g. NetFront Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox and Apple Safari image viewers e.g. VD Image Viewer and ADCSee document viewers e.g. Adobe Acrobat and word processor applications e.g. Documents To Go Microsoft Word and WordPerfect .

In one embodiment each application program includes screen identification data the screen identification data to are hereinafter collectively referred to as the screen identification data for identifying the screen image associated with the application program . The screen identification data associated with the current status of the application program is sent to the paired computing device as part of the status data via the short range radio module .

In another embodiment the operating system may send the dynamic status data of the mobile computing device or the application programs to the paired computing device . The dynamic status data is generated by the operating system to indicate the current status of the mobile computing device other than the screen identification data and includes among other data the data on the identify of the application programs currently running on the mobile computing device resources available on the mobile computing device the data indicating the states of the application current configuration parameters of the mobile computing device or the application programs 

The processor performs various operations according to the program codes stored in the memory module . The operations performed include among other instructions controlling of other components in the paired computing device .

The display module displays various images associated with the operation of the paired computing device . In one embodiment the display module has a screen size larger than the display module of the mobile computing device . The display module may have screen size sufficient to display the help information associated with the current status of the mobile computing device as well as the current screen image of the mobile computing device as described below in detail with reference to .

The memory module or other tangible computer readable medium stores program codes e.g. instructions to be executed by the processor including but not limited to data associated with helper database a browser and a status analyzer . The memory module may be a non volatile type persistent memory such as a hard disk a compact flash or an EEPROM. The memory module may also be a volatile type such as a random access memory a buffer a cache a register a combination of non volatile and volatile memory or other device capable of storing instructions and data.

The helper database stores the help information associated with the operation of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment the help information for the status data may be searched and retrieved from the helper database . The helper database may be indexed by the status data to efficiently search for the help information associated with the status data sent from the mobile computing device .

In one embodiment the memory module stores data for the browser to allow the user to conveniently access the help information on the paired computing device . The browser includes for example Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Safari Opera and Netscape. The browser generates and formats various pages including among other pages pages including the help information.

The browser may include a plug in that identifies the help information to be displayed. In one embodiment the plug in determines the associated help information. The plug in may operate in conjunction with the status analyzer to identify the associated help information and then operate in conjunction with the help database to retrieve the relevant help information from the help database . The browser may also operate in conjunction with the network communication module to retrieve the help information from the remote server . In one embodiment the plug in sends data to the remote server so that the remote server may identify and send the associated help information to the paired computing device . After the help information is retrieved from either the help database or the remote server the browser converts the help information into a page format including text images sound or combination thereof that can be accessed by the user via user interface module such as the display module of the paired computing device .

In one embodiment the web page format includes hyperlinks that link to different pages that provide additional help information. After receiving the screen identification data that indicates the change in the screen image displayed on the mobile computing device the browser i.e. the plug in automatically displays the help information associated with the application state.

The status analyzer analyzes the dynamic status data from the mobile computing device to determine currents status of the mobile computing device . The status analyzer may operate in conjunction with the browser and the helper database to provide relevant help information to the user. For example the status analyzer may provide information to the use via the browser that there is an application program already installed on the mobile computing device that conflicts with the application program that is currently being installed or that there is insufficient resource in the mobile computing device to install the application program. The helper database may further include information on how to resolve such issues which may be retrieved by the browser for displaying to the user.

The short range radio module of the paired computing device is a counterpart module of the short range radio module . The mobile computing device and the paired computing device communicate via the short range radio module and the short range radio module . In one embodiment the short rage radio includes among other components a signal listener . The signal listener detects signals from the mobile computing device . The paired computing device may remain in a sleep mode that consumes minimal amount of power when a short range radio signal e.g. Bluetooth signal of the mobile computing device is not detected by the signal listener . After the signal listener detects the short range radio signal from the mobile computing device the signal listener wakes up the paired computing device so that the paired computing device becomes fully operational. By waking up the paired computing device after detecting the short range signal from the mobile computing device the power consumption of the paired computing device is reduced.

The network communication module is a communication module that allows the paired computing device to communicate with devices coupled to the network including among others the remote server . The network communication module is for example a WiFi network card or an Ethernet network card.

Then the paired computing device receives the status data and the request to start the browser. The paired computing device analyzes the status data to determine the help information to be displayed on the browser. Then the paired computing device determines whether the help information for the status data is available from its helper database and whether the help information in the helper database is not outdated. If it is determined that the help information corresponding to the status data is available from the helper database and is not outdated then the paired computing device retrieves the help information from the helper database . Then the process proceeds to generate and display a help screen image based on the retrieved help information.

If it is determined in step that the help information is not available from the helper database or is outdated then the paired computing device retrieves the help information from the remote server via the network . Then the process proceeds to generate and display a help screen image based on the retrieved help information. By automatically retrieving the help information from the paired computing device and updating the outdated help information the user need not take other steps to obtain the help information from other sources or confirm whether the stored help information is outdated.

If there is any user input associated with the help information that needs to be provided to the mobile computing device the paired computing device receives the user input for the mobile computing device . The mobile computing device generally has user interfaces such as a small screen or small keypads that are inconvenient to input information to the mobile computing device . In contrast the paired computing device may have user interfaces such as a full keyboard and a mouse along with a larger screen to display a much larger screen to allow the user to view more information at once and input the information more conveniently. After receiving the user input the paired computing device sends the received user input to the mobile computing device .

The paired computing device displays a helper screen image including hyperlinks the current screen image of the mobile computing device a voice instruction icon a backward icon and a forward icon . When the user clicks on one of the hyperlinks the paired computing device displays screen images providing detailed information on respective entries i.e. proxy server setup port number setup and proxy authentication required to set up the email account. The current screen image shows the current screen image displayed on the mobile computing device . By displaying the current screen image the user may easily identify the hyperlinks associated with each entry in the screen image of the mobile computing device .

The voice instruction icon replays voice instructions that interactively explain the entries in the current screen image . By clicking the backward icon or the forward icon the user may navigate to a previous or subsequent helper screen image.

In this example the user inputs necessary entries in the mobile computing device using its user interface e.g. a touch screen or keypads . As the user proceeds to a different configuration screen on the mobile computing device the paired computing device automatically detects changes in the configuration screen using the status data e.g. the screen identification data and changes the helper screen image accordingly.

The helper screen image displayed on the paired computing device displays entries associated with multiple screen images of the mobile computing device . Specifically the helper screen image displays entries and information associated with four screen images to of the mobile computing device that is displayed in sequence during the configuration of the email application program.

The helper screen image of the paired computing device includes hyperlinks to other helper screen images associated with the entries text boxes or pull down menus for providing the user inputs the current screen image of the mobile computing device a voice instruction icon a backward icon and the forward icon . As in the example of the help information associated with the entry is displayed on the helper screen image when the hyperlinks are clicked. The functions of voice instruction icon the current screen image the backward icon and the forward icon are the same as described above in detail with reference to .

The helper screen image is different from the help screen image of in that the helper screen image includes text boxes or pull down menus for receiving the user input using the paired computing device . In one embodiment as the user progresses to input configuration information in the text boxes or pull down menus the screen image displayed on the mobile computing device changes accordingly. For example after the user enters choices for . Mail Service and proceeds to enter choices for . Email Address the screen image displayed on the mobile computing device changes from the screen image to the screen image that is associated with the entry for . Email Address. Such synchronized display may be achieved by sending a synchronization signal from the paired computing device to the mobile computing device indicating that the entry for a different screen image i.e. the screen image is being provided by the user. The current screen image may also be changed accordingly to show the screen image . In another embodiment the screen images displayed on the mobile computing device are not synchronized with the images on the helper screen image . For example the mobile computing device may display only one or some of the screen images and then proceeds to display that the configuration of the mobile computing device is complete. That is the images on the helper screen image are asynchronous with the images on the mobile computing device .

After the user makes the choices and provides inputs via the paired computing device the paired computing device sends data of the choices and inputs regarding the configuration of the email application program to the mobile computing device via the short range radio module .

The screen shots of are merely illustrative and various other screen configurations may be used. For example the hyper links may be omitted and be replaced with text regarding detailed information provided below the title of each entry. Also the current screen image may also be omitted or be replaced with other graphical representations.

In one embodiment the paired computing device does not include a separate network communication module . The paired computing device communicates with the network via the mobile computing device . This alternative embodiment may be advantageous because the components in the paired computing device are reduced simplifying the paired computing device and decreasing the cost of the paired computing device .

In one embodiment the mobile computing device and the paired computing device do not include short range radio modules . Instead the communication of the mobile computing device and the paired computing device is established using long range radio or cables e.g. USB cables .

In one embodiment the paired computing device searches and retrieves the help information from more than one remote server. If the help information requested by the user is not found in one remote server the paired computing device communicates with another remote server to retrieve the help information. By searching and finding the help information in more than one remote servers more exhaustive help information can be gathered by the paired computing device with minimal or no user intervention.

As noted above embodiments may be configured as software elements or modules. The software may be written or coded using a programming language. Examples of programming languages may include C C BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC JAVA ActiveX assembly language machine code and so forth. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code object code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The software may be stored using any type of computer readable media or machine readable media. Furthermore the software may be stored on the media as source code or object code. The software may also be stored on the media as compressed and or encrypted data. Examples of software may include any software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application programming interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using any tangible computer readable media machine readable media or article capable of storing software. The media or article may include any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit such as any of the examples described with reference to a memory. The media or article may comprise memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD subscriber identify module tape cassette or the like.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B is true or present .

Also use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of embodiments of the present invention. This was done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the embodiments of the present invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

By displaying help information associated with the operation of a mobile computing device on a paired computing device in a synchronized manner the user need not switch between the windows or screen images to search and locate the help information. Therefore the use of the application program on the mobile computing device is not interrupted by invoking the helper system. Further the help information displayed on the paired computing device is generated based on the status data sent from the mobile computing device. Therefore the help information provided is contextual to the current operation of the mobile computing device. Further the paired computing device may include a large screen that allows the user to view more detailed help information or screen shots of the mobile computing device to facilitate the user to operate the mobile computing device or the application programs. The large screen of the paired computing device may also allow users to display fields e.g. text boxes or pull down menus that allow the user to conveniently provide user inputs associated with the mobile computing device using the user interface modules of the paired computing device.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for a providing help information through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus of the present embodiments disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

