---

title: Method of fabricating an optical modulator
abstract: A method of fabricating an optical modulator on a silicon substrate, comprising: forming a silicon nitride layer on the silicon substrate; forming a first polycrystalline silicon layer (PSL) on the silicon nitride layer; patterning the first PSL; forming a first silicon dioxide layer (SDL) on the first patterned PSL; patterning the first SDL; forming a second PSL on the first patterned SDL; patterning the second PSL; forming a second SDL on the second patterned PSL; patterning the second SDL; forming a third PSL on the second patterned SDL; patterning the third PSL; forming a metal layer on the third patterned PSL; patterning the metal layer; removing the first and second SDLs to effect release of first and second side reflectors; forming an active layer on the metal layer; and patterning the active layer or stack to form a base reflector and associated conductive traces for biasing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07755825&OS=07755825&RS=07755825
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07755825
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070613
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 758 721 NC 83928 filed 16 Jan. 2004 titled Optical Modulator pending which is incorporated herein by this reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purpose without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This invention Navy Case No. 98777 was developed with funds from the United States Department of the Navy. Licensing inquiries may be directed to Office of Research and Technical Applications Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center San Diego Code 2112 San Diego Calif. 92152 telephone 619 553 2778 email T2 spawar.navy.mil.

The typical corner cube reflector as shown in comprises three mutually orthogonal plano reflective surfaces and which cumulatively form a right angle concave mirror. An incident light ray upon the corner cube reflector from direction A will be reflected back in direction A i.e. toward the source if it reflects off the three plano reflective surfaces and . Corner cube reflectors with a movable base mirror as shown in show promise as optical modulators. However achieving proper alignment and planarity of the base mirror during the fabrication process has proved challenging. Furthermore microelectromechanical systems MEMS require hermetic packaging to avoid stiction and other reliability problems. There is a need for improved structures that simplify fabrication avoid operational problems mitigate packaging constraints and improve reliability.

In an alternate embodiment base reflector contains a plurality of layers which form a capacitive structure that includes an electro optic material. The electro optic material changes its optical and dielectric properties with the application of a voltage. This can in turn change the reflective properties of the stacked structure. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 122 091 Transmissive Surface Plasmon Light Valve by Russell et. al. Additional components may be ascribed to these embodiments to meet particular applications some of which are described in the embodiments below.

The optical modulator as described herein may include monolithically integrated components to self assemble the corner cube following fabrication. Examples include scratch drive actuators using microelectromechanical structures as practiced in the art of microassembly. Similarly piezoelectric transducers as practiced in the art could be integrated to self assemble the corner cube following fabrication. Other materials biasing sources and layers can be used in the optical modulator but the simplest embodiments were described to convey the operational concept. For example the reflective components and of may use aluminum gold silver or metallic alloys or multi layers or dielectric reflective layers to optimize reflection based on the wavelengths desired for operation and anticipated incident angles. Also more than one reflector may be biased to modulate the reflected electromagnetic intensity. Finally a variety of sensors may be employed either identical or different in a system configuration and operatively coupled to the optical modulator.

Described herein is a method for making the new optical modulator a system incorporating the new optical modulator and a method for using the new optical modulator The optical modulator uses a corner cube concept to redirect the optical energy back in the direction of the source of the light and can therefore be interrogated by a remote source. Coupling of the corner cube reflector of the optical modulator to a sensor enables a very low power method of transmitting information from the sensor to a remote source. An advantage of the optical modulator described herein is the elimination of moving parts associated with the prior art. Moving parts cause problems associated with release etches during fabrication and reliability of the miniature membranes due to stiction and mechanical stresses. These latter problems in reality are daunting and have only partially been overcome using expensive hermetic packaging technologies.

Clearly many modifications and variations of the optical modulator are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the optical modulator may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

