---

title: Process for removing epoxides
abstract: A process for removing epoxides from a process stream over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity, comprising the step of contacting the process stream with a filtration media comprising an acid form of a mesoporous zeolite produced from pentasil zeolite treated with a caustic agent, for a sufficient time to remove the epoxides therefrom.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07713334&OS=07713334&RS=07713334
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07713334
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071009
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 863 250 filed Oct. 27 2006.

The present invention relates to a process for removing epoxides such as for example ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from process streams such as ambient air streams over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity.

Among the class of epoxides ethylene oxide also known as EO EtO ETO anprolene dihydrooxirene 1 2 epoxyethane oxacyclopropane oxane oxidoethane oxiran is an industrial chemical used in sterilizing medical items fumigating spices and manufacturing other chemicals. Pure ethylene oxide is a colorless gas at room temperature and a mobile colorless liquid below 54 Fahrenheit. Sold as a mixture with either carbon dioxide or fluorocarbon 12 ethylene oxide has been used as an antimicrobial pesticide since the 1940s. Ethylene oxide kills microorganisms by denaturing their proteins and subsequently modifying their molecular structure. This activity allows ethylene oxide to be effective as a sterilant.

Ethylene oxide is known to be highly toxic. The acute short term effects of ethylene oxide in humans consist mainly of central nervous system CNS depression and irritation of the eyes and mucous membranes and nausea vomiting neurological disorders including seizures convulsions and coma bronchitis pulmonary edema and emphysema at high concentrations. Chronic long term exposure to ethylene oxide in humans can cause irritation of the eyes skin and mucous membranes and problems in the functioning of the brain and nerves. Some human cancer data show an increase in the incidence of leukemia stomach cancer cancer of the pancreas and Hodgkin s disease in workers exposed to ethylene oxide.

The US Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA has set stringent guidelines aimed at protecting workers performing operations in an environment potentially contaminated with ethylene oxide. The Permissible Exposure Limit PEL for ethylene oxide has been established at 1.8 mg m approximately 1 ppm . As a result effective low cost means of removing ethylene oxide from ambient streams of air is needed.

One method of removing ethylene oxide from ambient streams of air is to use impregnated activated carbon as a filtration media. The impregnated activated carbon is known to exhibit a strong affinity for a wide variety of organic chemicals in an ambient air stream. However under conditions of high relative humidity i.e. greater than about 50 relative humidity the absorption capacity of impregnated activated carbon is largely restricted. Under such conditions the excessive amount of water vapor severely hampers the ability of the activate carbon to effectively absorb organic chemicals including ethylene oxide.

Depending on the environment and environmental conditions the water content associated with ambient air can vary over a wide range from less than about 5 to greater than about 95 relative humidity RH . Although a number of media such as for example activated carbon and resins are capable of removing ethylene oxide from dry air these materials fail to effectively filter ethylene oxide under conditions of high relative humidity.

For this reason there is a need to provide an enhanced process for removing epoxides including ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from process streams e.g. ambient air streams over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity and especially in the presence of high relative humidity. There is a further need for an enhanced process for removing epoxides including ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from process streams e.g. ambient air streams that is relatively cost efficient safe and easy to make use or implement and does not require extensive handling maintenance and care.

The present invention relates to a process for removing epoxides including ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from process streams e.g. ambient air streams over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity. The process of the present invention utilizes a zeolite based filtration media which exhibits enhanced capacity for effectively and efficiently removing ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from ambient air streams passing therethrough particularly under conditions of high relative humidity. In particular the zeolite based filtration media of the present invention is produced from zeolite preferably from the pentasil family e.g. ZSM 5 or MFI treated with a caustic agent to produce mesoporous zeolite and thereafter converted into an acid form using techniques well known to one skilled in the art. The treatment of zeolite with the caustic agent has been determined to greatly enhance porosity specifically in the mesoporous range of from about 2 50 nm resulting in enhanced removal of epoxide e.g. ethylene oxide and propylene oxide . The process of the present invention is cost efficient safe and easy to implement.

According to one embodiment the present invention comprises a process for removing epoxides including ethylene oxide from air over a wide range of relative humidity conditions. The process of the present invention comprises contacting an air stream with zeolite of the pentasil family members that include zeolite ZSM 5 ZSM 8 ZSM 11 and the like that has been treated to enhance the porosity for a sufficient time to remove EtO. Zeolite ZSM 5 is the preferred zeolite. Treatments to enhance the porosity of ZSM 5 include slurrying the as synthesized zeolite in a caustic solution of sufficient concentration and at a temperature and contact time sufficient to dissolve a portion of the silica from the lattice of the zeolite. Zeolite ZSM 5 treated in this manner is also referred to as pore size modified ZSM 5 or mesoporous ZSM 5 m ZSM 5 . The m ZSM 5 is acidified via suitable methods such as for example ion exchange with nitric acid ammonium nitrate ammonium chloride and the like followed by subsequent calcinations to yield a pore size modified zeolite H ZSM 5 or acidified mesoporous ZSM 5 m H ZSM 5 .

The term mesopores as used herein is intended to refer to tiny pores at least 2 nanometers in diameter and preferably from about 2 nanometers to 50 nanometers in diameter located within a substrate used to filter fluids. The term mesoporous as used herein is intended to describe a structure containing mesopores.

The term calcining as used herein refers to the process of heating a substance to a high temperature but below the melting or fusing point of the substance causing loss of moisture reduction or oxidation and the decomposition of carbonates and other organic compounds. Generally the calcining temperature of zeolite is from about 750 F. 400 C. to 1200 F. 650 C. .

The term caustic agent is intended to encompass a base preferably a strong base which hydrolyzes completely raising the pH of a solution towards 14. Suitable strong bases include potassium hydroxide barium hydroxide cesium hydroxide sodium hydroxide strontium hydroxide calcium hydroxide lithium hydroxide rubidium hydroxide and combinations thereof and the like. Sodium hydroxide is the preferred caustic agent.

In one aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for removing epoxides from a process stream over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity comprising the step of contacting the process stream with a zeolite based filtration media including an acid form of a mesoporous zeolite produced from pentasil zeolite treated with a caustic agent for a sufficient time to remove the epoxide therefrom m H pentasil zeolite .

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for removing epoxides amines and or aldehydes from a process stream over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity comprising the step of contacting the process stream with an acid form of a mesoporous zeolite produced from pentasil zeolite treated with a caustic agent for a sufficient time to remove the epoxides amines and or aldehydes therefrom wherein said mesoporous zeolite further comprises a compound impregnated therein selected from the group consisting of sulfates fluorides chlorides nitrates metal salts acids and precursors thereof and combinations thereof.

The present invention is directed generally to a process for removing epoxides including ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from process streams e.g. ambient air streams over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity. The process of the present invention utilizes m H ZSM 5 based filtration media which exhibits enhanced capacity for effectively and efficiently removing ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from ambient air streams passing therethrough particularly under conditions of high relative humidity. In particular the ZSM 5 based filtration media of the present invention is produced from ZSM 5 treated with a caustic agent to produce mesopores within the structure of the zeolite and thereafter converted into an acid form. The treatment of zeolite with the caustic agent has been determined to greatly enhance porosity specifically in the range of from about 2 50 nm resulting in enhanced removal of epoxide e.g. ethylene oxide . The process of the present invention is cost efficient safe and easy to implement.

In one embodiment of the present invention there is provided a process for removing epoxides from a process stream over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity comprising the step of contacting the process stream with a zeolite based filtration media including an acid form of a mesoporous zeolite produced from pentasil zeolite treated with a caustic agent for a sufficient time to remove the epoxide therefrom.

Often times it is desired that the removal material be capable of removing a range of chemicals from streams of air such as for example epoxides basic chemicals and the like. The novel process described herein is able to filter epoxides such as for example ethylene oxide and propylene oxide because the removal is facilitated by the absorption of EtO into the pores of the acidified mesoporous zeolite where a chemical reaction occurs at the zeolitic acid sites. The chemical reaction is believed to result in the hydrolysis of EtO into ethylene glycol. Further because the novel process described herein employs acid sites to remove ethylene oxide the novel process can also be applied to the removal of additional classes of basic chemicals such as for example amines e.g. ammonia from streams of air. Further the novel process can be applied to multiuse applications such as for example applications requiring the removal of multiple epoxides or removal of ethylene oxide plus additional basic chemicals from streams of air.

The m H pentasil zeolite filtration media of the present invention have been specially treated to enhance removal of epoxides especially under conditions of high relative humidity. This greatly facilitates improved isolation handling and subsequent processing of the toxic products in a rapid and efficient manner and operates to extend the absorption range capability and reliability of currently available methods and procedures. More specifically the kinetic properties of the present invention are greatly enhanced due to the formation of mesopores which act as feeder pores or conduits for passage of epoxides including ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds and other toxic industrial chemicals. Notable improvements of filtration performance have been observed as compared to untreated zeolite. The m H pentasil zeolite filtration media is preferably in the form of a particle a bead or an extrusion.

Broadly the process of the present invention utilizes an m H pentasil zeolite filtration media effective for removing epoxide from process streams. Various methods can be used for material preparation. The zeolite may be synthesized in template free form or synthesized using template e.g. tetrapropylammonium bromide TPABr as used in the synthesis of zeolite ZSM 5. The preferred zeolite is selected from the pentasil family more preferably ZSM 5 ZSM 8 ZSM 11 or combinations thereof and the like and most preferably ZSM 5.

The term mesopores as used herein is intended to refer to pores at least 2 nanometers in diameter and preferably from about 2 nanometers to 50 nanometers in diameter located within a substrate used to filter fluids. The term mesoporous as used herein is intended to describe a structure containing mesopores.

The term calcining as used herein refers to the process of heating a substance to a high temperature but below the melting or fusing point of the substance causing loss of moisture reduction or oxidation and the decomposition of carbonates and other organic compounds. Generally the calcining temperature of zeolite is from about 750 F. 400 C. to 1200 F. 650 C. .

The term caustic agent is intended to encompass a base preferably a strong base which hydrolyzes completely raising the pH of a solution towards 14. Suitable strong bases include potassium hydroxide barium hydroxide cesium hydroxide sodium hydroxide strontium hydroxide calcium hydroxide lithium hydroxide rubidium hydroxide and combinations thereof and the like.

The process of the present invention utilizes a filtration media including an acid form of a mesoporous zeolite. The mesoporous zeolite used in the present invention comprises a surface area of at least 350 m g and a pore volume of at least 0.20 cm g.

The aluminum content of the zeolite ZSM 5 being the preferred zeolite employed in this invention will greatly affect the performance of the resulting filtration media. For example acidified ZSM 5 containing a minimal amount of aluminum SiO AlOgreater than about 1 000 will not effectively filter ethylene oxide because of the small number of acid sites. Therefore it is desired that the SiO AlOratio of the ZSM 5 employed in the present invention be less than about 200 with the preferred SiO AlOratio ranging from about 30 to 90.

In another embodiment of the present invention the filtration media can be further adapted to remove EtO and basic chemicals including aldehydes such as for example formaldehyde and amines such as for example ammonia from process streams e.g. ambient air streams by impregnating the filtration media with a compound selected from sulfates fluorides chlorides nitrates metal salts acids and precursors thereof and combinations thereof. Suitable acids can be selected from sulfuric acid hydrochloric acid ammonium bisulfate ammonium chloride ammonium fluoride ammonium nitrate citric acid formic acid and combinations thereof.

The m H pentasil zeolite filtration media of the present invention is adapted for removing epoxides including ethylene oxide propylene oxide and related compounds from process streams including ambient air streams over a wide range of temperatures and relative humidity. The relative humidity of the process stream can range from about 5 to 95 and the temperature of the process stream can range from about 25 F. 13 C. to 125 F. 52 C. .

The m H pentasil zeolite filtration media employing the acidified pore size modified zeolite acid form of the mesoporous zeolite is suitably configured for promoting contact with the stream being treated. The linear velocity by which the EtO contaminated air stream passes through the acidified pore size modified zeolite contained in the filtration media will be a function of the many parameters such as for example the bed depth the ambient concentration of EtO flow rate and the like.

The pore size modified acidified zeolite acid form of the mesoporous zeolite of the present invention functions effectively at water content of the process stream e.g. ambient air stream between about 5 and about 95 relative humidity RH . At RH below about 5 insufficient water may be present in the process stream to effectively remove EtO via hydrolysis. As the RH is increased above 95 the effectiveness of the removal media becomes less than optimal. Should the RH fall below the specified range water may be added to the process to increase the RH. Alternatively should the RH level be too high greater than about 95 RH the process stream may be mildly heated to decrease the RH.

The temperature of the process stream e.g. ambient air stream should be from about 25 F. to 125 F. The contact time between the acidified pore size modified zeolite and the process stream being treated can vary greatly depending on the nature of the application such as for example the desired filtration capacity flow rates concentration of EtO in the ambient air stream and the like. However in order to achieve a threshold level of EtO removal the contact time e.g. bed depth divided by the linear velocity should be greater than about 0.025 s. A contact time of greater than 0.2 seconds is preferred for most applications and a contact time of greater than 0.5 seconds is even more preferred for applications involving high concentrations of EtO or for applications where it is desired to achieve a high EtO capacity in e.g. a filter bed.

In a further embodiment of the present invention there is provided a process for removing epoxides amines and or aldehydes from a process stream over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity comprising the step of contacting the process stream with an acid form of a mesoporous zeolite produced from pentasil zeolite treated with a caustic agent for a sufficient time to remove the epoxides amines and or aldehydes therefrom wherein said mesoporous zeolite further comprises a compound impregnated therein selected from the group consisting of sulfates fluorides chlorides nitrates metal salts acids and precursors thereof and combinations thereof. Suitable acids can be selected from sulfuric acid hydrochloric acid ammonium bisulfate ammonium chloride ammonium fluoride ammonium nitrate citric acid formic acid and combinations thereof.

As prepared and with subsequent ion exchange the acid form of the mesoporous zeolite exists as small crystals. According to various embodiments of the present invention the m H pentasil zeolite may be configured in the form of particles rings cylinders spheres and the like. Alternatively the m H pentasil zeolite may be configured as a monolith or coated onto the walls of a ceramic material such as for example honeycomb corderite. Failure to configure the m H pentasil zeolite as described above will result in excessive pressure drop across the filtration media. Configuring the m H pentasil zeolite into various geometrical shapes can be performed using operations well known to one skilled in the art. These techniques include pilling extruding and the like. Binders such as for example clays silicates plastics and the like may or may not be required for the given application however the use of binders in the formation of m H pentasil zeolite rings particles and the like is preferred.

The m H pentasil zeolite based filtration media can be adapted for use in a filtration device arranged in a manner where the process stream containing epoxide can flow through and in contact with the m H pentasil zeolite based filtration media. The epoxide is rapidly absorbed into the mesopores of the zeolite based filtration media and hydrolyzed into harmless products. The filtration device comprising the m H pentasil zeolite based filtration media can comprise any shape or geometric form depending upon the application so long as the filtration device facilitates and promotes contact of the process stream with the m H pentasil zeolite based filtration media. The linear velocity of the process stream passing through the m H pentasil zeolite based filtration media is a function of several parameters including bed depth ambient concentration of epoxide flow rate and the like.

Examples of such filtration devices include but are not limited to gas masks canisters respirators filter banks such as those employed in fume hoods ventilation systems and the like. A blower motor fan or the like can be used as a means for forcing the process stream through the device if needed.

Treatment of the pentasil zeolite such as for example ZSM 5 using caustic solution is the key to the novel process described herein. Although not wishing to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that the caustic treatment operates to dissolve silica from the pores of the zeolite crystal. Dissolution of the silica creates voids or mesopores within the zeolite crystal structure. These voids are believed to enhance intrazeolitic mass transfer leading to improved EtO filtration performance.

The process for making the m H pentasil zeolite based filtration media useful for removing epoxides from a process stream over a wide range of temperature and relative humidity comprises the steps of treating zeolite with a caustic agent to produce a mesoporous zeolite neutralizing the pH of the mesoporous zeolite and converting the mesoporous zeolite into an acid form. The m H pentasil zeolite based filtration media comprises zeolite preferably of the pentasil family and more preferably selected from ZSM 5 ZSM 8 and ZSM 11 and most preferably ZSM 5.

More specifically the treatment of a pentasil zeolite using caustic solution is performed by slurrying the zeolite in a caustic solution such as for example sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide or combinations thereof to produce mesoporous zeolite. The optimization of the porosity is a function of several factors such as for example the nature of the caustic agent e.g. sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide the normality of the solution the temperature of the solution the duration of the contact and the concentration of zeolite in the slurry.

The caustic agent employed in the preparation of the caustic solution is capable of increasing the pH of the slurry to greater than 9.0 and preferably greater than 10. Examples of caustic agents include but are not limited to sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide. Sodium hydroxide is the preferred caustic solution. Organic bases such as sodium citrate may also be employed but are less preferred. The concentration of caustic in solution may be varied from about 0.001N to 10N with the preferred range extending from about 0.1N to 1.0N. The temperature of the solution may be varied from room temperature to boiling with the preferred range extending from about 120 F. 50 C. to 190 F. 90 C. . The duration of the contact i.e. amount of time the zeolite remains in the slurry may be varied from as little as less than 5 minutes to greater than several days however the preferred contact duration is less than 2 hours.

The amount of zeolite suspended in the caustic solution can affect the extent of the pore size modification. The preferred ratio of zeolite to solution is from about 1 g zeolite to 25 g solution to 1 g zeolite to 3 g solution.

It should be noted that the SiO AlOratio of the as synthesized zeolite affects the degree in which the caustic solution modifies the pore size. As a general rule the more alumina in the zeolite framework i.e. lower the SiO AlOratio the more difficult it will be to remove silica from the lattice of the zeolite and hence modify the porosity . ZSM 5 crystals with SiO AlOratios below about 35 40 will require a more aggressive caustic solution in order to achieve the optimized porosity modification. For these materials a caustic solution with a normality of approximately 0.4N will have a minimal impact on the zeolite porosity. ZSM 5 crystals with SiO AlOratios greater than about 100 120 will require a less aggressive caustic solution in order to achieve the optimized porosity modification. For these materials an overly aggressive caustic solution will lead to excessive dissolution of the zeolite.

Therefore the aluminum content of the as synthesized zeolite employed as a raw material in this invention will greatly affect the performance of the resulting EtO removal media. For example acidified mesoporous zeolite produced from ZSM 5 containing a minimal amount of aluminum SiO AlOgreater than about 1 000 will not effectively filter EtO because of the small number of acid sites. Therefore it is desired that the SiO AlOratio of the acidified mesoporous zeolite produced from ZSM 5 be less than about 200 with the preferred SiO AlOratio between about 90 and about 20.

Following treatment with the caustic agent the resulting mesoporous zeolite is separated from the caustic solution such as for example by filtration. It is preferable to wash the filtered mesoporous zeolite deionized DI water until neutral or washed to neutrality using a mildly acidic DI water solution.

Following the porosity modification step as described above the mesoporous zeolite or pore size modified zeolite is acidified in order to maximize filtration performance. Acidification of the pore size modified zeolite is necessary in order to facilitate the hydrolysis of EtO. Acidification may be performed using techniques well known to one skilled in the art such as for example ion exchange. Acidification of the pore size modified zeolite provides the necessary acid sites to catalyze the hydrolysis of EtO. Following pore size modification mesoporous zeolite is a powder consisting of crystals typically less than about 50 m in length.

Acidification of the mesoporous zeolite is typically accomplished through cation exchange reactions using techniques known to one skilled in the art. For example cation exchange may be performed by slurrying the mesoporous zeolite in water heating the water to approximately 120 F. to 190 F. 50 C. to 90 C. then adding an ammonium salt solution such as for example ammonium chloride ammonium bisulfate or the like to the slurry. After slurrying the cation exchanged mesoporous zeolite is filtered from the solution dried and calcined at an elevated temperature such as for example 1000 F. 550 C. . Calcination of the ion exchanged mesoporous zeolite results in decomposition of the ammonium complex resulting in a proton as the charge balancing cation whereby the proton constitutes the acid site.

Following caustic treatment and subsequent ion exchange the acidified mesoporous zeolite exists as small crystals. According to various embodiments of the present invention the zeolite may be configured in the form of particles rings cylinders spheres and the like. Alternatively the acidified mesoporous zeolite may be configured as a monolith or coated onto the walls of a ceramic material such as for example honeycomb corderite. Failure to configure the acidified mesoporous zeolite e.g. m H ZSM 5 crystals as described above will result in excessive pressure drop across the filtration media. Configuring the zeolite preferably m H ZSM 5 crystals into various geometrical shapes can be performed using operations well known to one skilled in the art. These techniques include pilling extruding and the like. Binders such as for example clays silicates plastics and the like may or may not be required for the given application however the use of binders in the formation of zeolite rings particles and the like is preferred.

The acidified forms of mesoporous zeolites of the pentasil family such as for example m H ZSM 8 m H ZSM 11 and the like are also within the scope of the present invention. However m H ZSM 5 is the preferred zeolite based filtration media.

Often times it is desired that the filtration material be capable of removing a range of chemicals from streams of air such as for example epoxides amines nitriles aldehydes and the like. Because the novel process described herein is able to filter EtO an epoxide the novel process can also be applied to the removal of additional epoxides such as for example propylene oxide and the like. Further because the novel process described herein employs acid sites to remove EtO the novel process can also be applied to the removal of basic chemicals including aldehydes such as for example formaldehyde and amines such as for example ammonia from process streams e.g. ambient air streams . Further the novel process can be applied to multi use applications such as for example applications requiring the removal of multiple epoxides or removal of EtO plus additional basic chemicals from streams of air.

Should it be desired that the novel process described herein be employed in a multi use application such as for example a process requiring the removal of EtO and basic chemicals including aldehydes such as for example formaldehyde and amines such as for example ammonia from process streams e.g. ambient air streams a preferred process will involve use of m H ZSM 5 particles prepared using an acidified binder material or particles that are impregnated with acids or acid precursors such as for example sulfuric acid hydrochloric acid ammonium bisulfate ammonium chloride ammonium fluoride ammonium nitrate citric acid formic acid and the like.

Acidification of binder material can be performed using techniques known to one skilled in the art such as for example impregnating the preferred m H ZSM 5 particles with solutions containing ammonium bisulfate ammonium chloride and the like followed by calcination at an elevated temperature sufficient to decompose the ammonium complex. Organic acids such as for example citric acid can also be impregnated into the zeolite particles. Such a treatment will result in zeolite particles with an acidic binder with the acidity of the binder resulting from the presence of for example sulfate chloride and the like. Alternatively the binder material can be acidified through the addition of acid precursors to the binder such as for example the addition of aluminum sulfate to the binder. Additionally basic chemical filtration performance can be added to the particles via impregnation with metal sulfates chlorides and the like.

In a further embodiment of the present invention the process for making the zeolite based filtration media useful for removing epoxides from a process stream begins with calcining the zeolite preferably ZSM 5 at an elevated temperature of from about 750 F. to 1200 F. 400 C. to 650 C. for a sufficient time of from about 2 to 6 hours to remove organic residues such as an organic templating agent e.g. tetrapropylammonium bromide . This calcination step is not required for zeolite prepared in a template free form. A caustic solution is prepared comprising a caustic agent such as sodium hydroxide at a concentration of from about 0.01 N to 5.0 N and preferably from about 0.1 N to 1.0 N. The calcined zeolite is slurried in the caustic solution at a temperature of from about 70 F. to 212 F. 20 C. to 100 C. and preferably from about 120 F. to 190 F. 50 C. to 90 C. for about 5 minutes to 24 hours and preferably for about 15 minutes to 2 hours. The treatment of the zeolite with the caustic solution yields a mesoporous zeolite comprising mesopores with pore sizes of at least 2 nm in diameter. It is understood that various methods may be used for the caustic or alkaline treatment including use of various caustic solutions such as potassium hydroxide KOH as well as other alkaline caustic solutions.

Following the caustic treatment the mesoporous zeolite is filtered from the caustic solution and washed to a neutral pH. The filtered mesoporous zeolite is then dried. The mesoporous zeolite is cation exchanged or acidified to produce acid sites useful for catalyzing the hydrolysis of epoxides. The acidification of the mesoporous zeolite is implemented using conventional techniques known in the art such as ion exchange reactions.

The mesoporous zeolite may be cation exchanged for example by mixing with water and heating the resulting mixture to a temperature of from about 120 F. to 210 F. 50 C. to 95 C. . An ammonium salt such as for example ammonium chloride ammonium bisulfate and the like is added to the mixture for a sufficient time to ensure sufficient reaction efficiency. The cation exchanged zeolite is filtered from the mixture. The filtered zeolite is dried and calcined at about 1000 F. 550 C. for a sufficient time to decompose the ammonium complex to yield an acid form of the mesoporous zeolite. This results in a proton as the charge balancing cation in which the proton constitutes the acid site.

Optionally the acid form of the mesoporous zeolite can be prepared in combination with a binder and preferably an acidified binder or particles impregnated with acid such as for example sulfuric acid hydrochloric acid ammonium bisulfate ammonium chloride ammonium fluoride ammonium nitrate citric acid formic acid and combinations thereof and the like or an acid precursor such as for example metal sulfates e.g. aluminum sulfate chlorides and the like. Preferably the binder is selected from clays silicates plastics and the like. Acidification of the binder can be performed using techniques known in the art. Organic acids such as for example citric acid can also be used to impregnate the mesoporous zeolite. Alternatively the binder can be acidified through the addition of acid precursors to the binder such as aluminum sulfate.

Should it be desired that the process described herein be employed in a multiuse application such as for example a process requiring the removal of ethylene oxide and basic chemicals including aldehydes such as for example formaldehyde and amines such as for example ammonia from process streams e.g. ambient air streams a preferred process will involve use of the acid form of mesoporous zeolite particles prepared using an acidified binder material or particles that are impregnated with acids or acid precursors such as for example sulfuric acid hydrochloric acid ammonium bisulfate ammonium chloride ammonium fluoride ammonium nitrate citric acid formic acid and the like. Acidification of binder material can be performed using techniques known to one skilled in the art such as for example impregnating the preferred acid form of the mesoporous zeolite particles with solutions containing an acid selected for example from ammonium bisulfate ammonium chloride and the like followed by calcination at an elevated temperature sufficient to decompose the ammonium complex.

Organic acids such as for example citric acid can also be impregnated into the zeolite particles. Such a treatment will result in zeolite particles with an acidic binder with the acidity of the binder resulting from the presence of for example sulfate chloride and the like. Alternatively the binder material can be acidified through the addition of acid precursors to the binder such as for example the addition of aluminum sulfate to the binder. Additionally basic chemical filtration performance can be added to the particles via impregnation with metal sulfates chlorides and the like.

The following examples serve to provide further appreciation of the invention but are not meant in any way to restrict the effective scope of the invention.

Laboratory scale tests were performed to evaluate the ability of the novel process to remove EtO from ambient air streams. A description of the laboratory scale test stand follows A stream of compressed air delivered from a mass flow controller was delivered to a water sparger located within a temperature controlled water bath. Controlling the temperature of the water sparger controlled the water content of the air stream. The RH of the process stream EtO free basis was determined based on the change in mass of the water sparger and the volume of air passing through the water sparger. Neat EtO delivered from a second mass flow controller was blended with the process stream downstream of the water sparger. A small portion of the EtO humid air stream was delivered to a gas chromatograph for analysis of the feed stream. The EtO humid air stream was delivered to the filtration test assembly. The filtration test assembly consisted of a glass tube fitted with a porous glass frit sufficient to support the bed of filtration media. A portion of the stream exiting the filter bed was delivered to a gas chromatograph used to quantitatively determine the concentration of EtO in the filter effluent stream.

When performing tests under conditions of high RH the filtration media was pre humidified overnight in an environmental chamber at 80 F. 27 C. 80 RH. All tests were performed at 77 F. 25 C. at either 15 RH or 80 RH. All breakthrough times are reported corresponding to an effluent EtO concentration of 1.8 mg m.

NBET isotherms were recorded for all samples disclosed in this invention. These data were used to determine the surface area and pore volume of the corresponding samples. Isotherms illustrating the effects of the caustic treatment on the porosity of the zeolite are reported in .

Zeolite ZSM 5 was synthesized by adding 8 400 grams of LUDOX colloidal silica to a high shear mixer with a 5 gallon capacity. 175 g of sodium hydroxide 235 grams of sodium aluminate 925 grams of tetrapropylammonium bromide and 5 250 grams of deionized water were added to the silica colloid. The resulting synthesis gel was thoroughly mixed under high shear. Upon completion of the mixing the gel was added to a 5 liter TEFLON lined autoclave and heated in a forced air convection oven at 355 F. 180 C. for about 72 hours to initiate crystallization. Upon completion of the crystallization process the autoclave was removed from the oven and allowed to cool to room temperature. Once cooled the resulting product zeolite was removed from the autoclave filtered from the mother liquor and then washed repeatedly to neutrality using 4 gallons of deionized water each time to remove the excess sodium.

Following the final washing operation the zeolite was dried overnight at about 230 F. 110 C. and then calcined at 1200 F. 650 C. for 6 hours in order to remove the organic cation tetrapropyl ammonium . The SiO AlOratio of the zeolite was determined to be 52 using Proton Induced X Ray Emissions PIXE analysis.

The zeolite from Example 1 was acidified by ion exchange and then formed into 60 140 and 25 35 mesh granules. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 125 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to a temperature of about 195 F. 90 C. . At this temperature 100 g of the washed zeolite from Example 1 was added to the heated solution and remained in contact with the solution for about 2 hours. Following ion exchange the acidified zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 255 F. 125 C. . A 3 g portion of the zeolite was calcined at about 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours. The acidity of the calcined zeolite H ZSM 5 was determined by slurrying 1 g of zeolite crystals in 50 ml of DI water and recording the pH. The pH of the slurry was 3.91 indicating that the zeolite was acidic. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite H ZSM 5 were determined to be 368 m g and 0.209 cm g respectively.

75 g of the zeolite NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 56.25 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 18.75 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 mL of deionized water was added to a tetrafluoroethylene TFE jar. 6.4 grams of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring to yield a 0.4 N solution. The solution was heated to about 180 F. 82 C. on a stirring hot plate. 75 grams of ZSM 5 of Example 1 were added to the solution. After 1 hour the resulting mesoporous zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 mL of deionized water. The temperature at the end of the operation was about 171 F. 77.5 C. . The washing operation was repeated two more times.

The mesoporous zeolite of Example 3 was treated to an ion exchange process. 100 grams of ammonium nitrate NHNO were added to 500 mL of deionized water. The resulting solution was heated to 190 F. 90 C. . Once at temperature the washed mesoporous zeolite of Example 3 was added and remained in the solution for about 3 hours. Following the exchange the resulting the treated mesoporous zeolite was filtered and washed with 500 mL of deionized water. The treated mesoporous zeolite was refiltered and dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . A 3 gram portion of the treated mesoporous zeolite was calcined at about 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours to yield the acid form of the mesoporous zeolite.

1.0 gram of the acid form of the mesoporous zeolite was slurried in 50 mL of deionized water. The pH of the slurry was measured at about 3.87. The physical properties of the acid form of the mesoporous zeolite as compared to baseline or control untreated acidified zeolite of Example 2 are shown in Table 1 below.

The zeolite particles forming part of the zeolite based filtration media were prepared by blending the acid form of the mesoporous zeolite of Example 4 with a clay binder in proportions of about 100 parts zeolite and 25 parts clay. The blended dough was first dried at about 230 F. 110 C. and then calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours. The bound acid form of the mesoporous zeolite was then crushed and sieved to 60 140 mesh and 25 30 mesh granules.

Ethylene oxide was selected as a representative epoxide. Results were obtained by challenging a 1.0 cm deep bed of 60 140 mesh filtration media with 1000 mg methylene oxide in 80 relative humidity RH air flowing at a linear velocity of about 6.6 cm sec at 77 F. 25 C. . The material was prehumidified overnight at 80 RH 80 F. 27 C. prior to testing. The breakthrough concentration of ethylene oxide was about 1.8 mg m.

Ethylene oxide filtration results corresponding to the baseline control of Example 2 and the bound acid form of the mesoporous zeolite of Example 4 are shown below in Table 2.

The improvement in performance is attributed to enhancements in the intrazeolithic mass transfer resulting from the increased porosity of the acid form of the mesoporous zeolite.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 6.4 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water at room temperature while stirring. The resulting solution is 0.4N NaOH. Once dissolved 75 g of ZSM 5 from Example 1 were added to the solution and mixed. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution then washed with 500 pm DI water. The washing operation was repeated two additional times.

Once washed the resulting zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for 5 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 110 C. A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours. The acidity of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 was determined by slurrying 1 g of zeolite crystals in 50 ml of DI water and recording the pH. The pH of the slurry was 3.82 indicating that the zeolite was acidic. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 385 m g and 0.246 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents an 18 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 2.

66.4 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 49.725 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 16.575 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 110 C. The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 6.4 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The resulting solution is 0.4N NaOH. The solution was heated to about 125 F. 51.9 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 75 g of ZSM 5 from Example 1 were added. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 pm DI water. The temperature at the end of the operation was about 135 F. 57.3 C. . The washing operation was repeated two additional times.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for 4 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours. The acidity of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 was determined by slurrying 1 g of zeolite crystals in 50 ml of DI water and recording the pH. The pH of the slurry was 3.63 indicating that the zeolite was acidic. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 399 m g and 0.268 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 28 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 2.

60.52 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 45.39 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 15.13 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 6.4 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The resulting solution is 0.4N NaOH. The solution was heated to about 171 F. 77.4 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 75 g of ZSM 5 from Example 1 were added. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 pm DI water. The temperature at the end of the operation was about 173 F. 78.2 C. . The washing operation was repeated two additional times.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for 3.5 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 230 F. 1.10 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours. The acidity of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 was determined by slurrying 1 g of zeolite crystals in 50 ml of DI water and recording the pH. The pH of the slurry was 3.73 indicating that the zeolite was acidic. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 391 m g and 0.265 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 27 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 2.

60.61 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 45.46 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 15.15 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 6.4 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The resulting solution is 0.4N NaOH. The solution was heated to boil 206 F. 96.9 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 75 g of ZSM 5 of Example 1 were added. A watch glass filled with ice was placed above the TFE jar to minimize evaporative losses of water. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 pm DI water. The temperature at the end of the operation was about 206 F. 96.6 C. with the solution remaining under boil throughout the operation. The washing operation was repeated two additional times.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for about 5.5 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at about 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 361 m g and 0.224 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 7 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 2.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 3.2 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The resulting solution is 0.2N NaOH. The solution was heated to 141 F. 60.7 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 75 g of ZSM 5 from Example 1 were added. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 pm DI water. The temperature at the end of the NaOH treatment was 135 F. 57.5 C. . The washing operation was repeated two additional times.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for about 4 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 389 m g and 0.244 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 17 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 2.

68.0 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 51.0 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 17.0 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 80 C. The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 12.0 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The normality of the solution is 0.75N NaOH. The solution was heated 127 F. 53.2 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 75 g of ZSM 5 from Example 1 were added. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 pm DI water. The temperature at the end of the operation was about 142 F. 61.2 C. . The washing operation was performed by slurrying the zeolite in 500 ml DI water and then adjusting the pH to 10 using nitric acid and allowing the washing operation to proceed for 30 minutes. This operation was repeated with the pH reduced to 9 then repeated a third time reducing the pH to 7. The acid washing was employed due to the high sodium content of the treatment.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for about 5 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 416 m g and 0.338 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 62 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 2.

50.5 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 37.87 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 12.62 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 90 C. The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 24.0 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The normality of the resulting solution is 1.5N NaOH. The solution was heated 145 F. 63.0 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 75 g of ZSM 5 from Example 1 were added. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 pm DI water. The temperature at the end of the operation was about 136 F. 57.9 C. . The washing operation was repeated by slurrying the zeolite in 500 ml DI water and then adjusting the pH to 10 using nitric acid and allowing the washing operation to proceed for about 30 minutes. This operation was repeated with the pH reduced to 9 and then repeated a third time reducing the pH to 7. The acid washing was employed due to the high sodium content of the treatment. Approximately 32 g of zeolite was recovered.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for about 4 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml Dl water re filtered and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 445 m g and 0.616 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 195 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 2.

27.52 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 20.64 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 6.88 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 190 F. 90 C. . The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 950 F. 525 C. for about 2 hours.

ZSM 5 with a SiO AlOratio of 25 was purchased from Engelhard Corporation of Iselin N.J. Lot 5002 in the NH form. A 3 g portion of this material was calcined at 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours in order to activate the material. The acidity of the calcined zeolite H ZSM 5 was determined by slurrying 1 g of zeolite crystals in 50 ml of DI water and recording the pH. The pH of the slurry was 3.31 indicating that the zeolite was acidic. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite H ZSM 5 were determined to be 350 m g and 0.189 cm g respectively.

75 g of zeolite NH ZSM 5 were added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 56.25 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 18.75 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 230 F. 110 C. . The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 8.0 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The normality of the resulting solution is 0.5N NaOH. The solution was heated 139 F. 60 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 76 g of ZSM 5 with a SiO AlOratio of 25 obtained from Engelhard Corporation see Example 14 were added. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution then washed with 500 pm DI water. The washing operation was repeated by slurrying the zeolite in 500 ml DI water and then adjusting the pH to 8 using nitric acid and allowing the washing operation to proceed for about 30 minutes. The acid washing was employed due to the high sodium content of the treatment.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for about 4 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 175 F. 80 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at 550 C. for about 2 hours. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 361 m g and 0.203 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 7 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 14.

67 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 50.25 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 16.75 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 190 F. 90 C. . The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 mesh particles and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 525 C. for about 2 hours.

400 ml DI water was placed in a TFE jar. 16.0 g of NaOH pellets were dissolved in the water while stirring. The normality of the resulting solution is 0.5N NaOH. The solution was heated 139 F. 60 C. on a stirring hot plate at which time 78 g of ZSM 5 with a SiO AlOratio of 25 obtained from Engelhard Corporation see Example 14 were added. Following 1 hour the zeolite was filtered from the solution and then washed with 500 pm DI water. The washing operation was repeated by slurrying the zeolite in 500 ml DI water and then adjusting the pH to 7 using nitric acid and allowing the washing operation to proceed for about 30 minutes. The acid washing was employed due to the high sodium content of the treatment.

Once washed the zeolite was ion exchanged. The ion exchange operation involved the mixing of 100 g NHNOwith 500 ml DI water and heating the resulting solution to about 190 F. 90 C. . At this temperature the washed zeolite was added and remained in contact with the solution for about 4 hours. Following ion exchange the zeolite was filtered washed with 500 ml DI water re filtered and then dried at about 175 F. 80 C. . A 3 g portion of the ion exchanged zeolite was calcined at 1000 F. 550 C. for about 2 hours. The surface area and pore volume of the calcined zeolite m H ZSM 5 were determined to be 383 m g and 0.294 cm g respectively. Note that the pore volume represents a 56 increase in porosity relative to the baseline zeolite of Example 14.

58 g of NH exchanged zeolite m NH ZSM 5 was added to a 400 ml beaker. To the beaker was added a solution consisting of 43.5 g zirconium oxynitrate 20 ZrOby weight and 14.5 g Ludox colloidal silica solution 40 SiOby weight . The resulting dough was blended by hand and then dried at about 90 C. The dried dough was crushed and sieved to 60 140 mesh particles and 25 35 mesh particles. The sized particles were then placed in a furnace and calcined at about 525 C. for about 2 hours.

7.5 cmof the 60 140 mesh particles of H ZSM 5 of Examples 2 and 14 and m H ZSM 5 of Examples 7 through 16 described above were each formed into a filtration media and placed in a corresponding filter tube for a comparative analysis. The bed depth was 1.0 cm. The particles were challenged with 1 000 mg mEtO at 77 F. 25 C. in 80 RH air at a linear velocity of 6.6 cm s contact time 0.152 seconds . Each filtration media was pre humidified at 80 RH 80 F. 27 C. overnight prior to initiating said testing. The EtO breakthrough time recorded for each material are shown below in Tables 3 and 4.

With the exception of the material prepared using the 1.5N NaOH solution Example 13 all materials treated with NaOH to enhance the porosity displayed improvements in EtO filtration relative to the baseline material of Example 2.

All materials presented in the table above displayed improved ethylene oxide filtration performance relative to the baseline material of Example 14.

7.5 cmof the 60 140 mesh particles of H ZSM 5 of Example 2 and m H ZSM 5 of Example 8 described previously were each placed in a corresponding filter tube for evaluation as a filtration media versus NH. The bed depth was 1.0 cm. The particles were challenged with 1 000 mg mNHat 77 F. 25 C. in either 15 or 80 RH air at a linear velocity of 6.6 cm s contact time 0.152 seconds . Each filtration media was pre humidified at 80 RH 80 F. 27 C. overnight prior to initiating said testing at 80 RH. When testing at 15 RH each filtration media was evaluated as received. The NHbreakthrough time were recorded for each filtration media and shown in Table 5 below.

Results presented in the above table demonstrate that the m H ZSM 5 is capable of removing NHfrom streams of dry and humid air.

The forgoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

