---

title: Transferring an item
abstract: A request is received from a first consumer to sell at least one ticket, in which a provider of the ticket may have authorized the ticket to be sold. Information regarding the ticket may then be presented to at least a second consumer, who may make an indication to purchase the ticket. Thereafter, an inducement may be paid to the provider of the ticket in connection with a sale of the ticket to the second consumer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655735&OS=08655735&RS=08655735
owner: CFPH, LLC
number: 08655735
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070301
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 670 900 filed Sep. 28 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 574 375 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TRANSFERRING ITEMS WITH RESTRICTED TRANSFERABILITY by Stuart A. Fraser Philip M. Ginsberg Glenn D. Kirwin and Howard W. Lutnick which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 156 474 filed Sep. 28 1999 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TRANSFERRING ITEMS WITH RESTRICTED TRANSFERABILITY by Stuart A. Fraser Philip M. Ginsberg Glenn D. Kirwin and Howard W. Lutnick both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in there entirety.

The present invention is systems and methods for transferring items with restricted transferability such as airline tickets concert tickets sporting event tickets hotel reservations etc. More particularly the present invention relates to systems and methods for enabling consumers to exchange perishable items with the assistance from the providers of the items.

Many popular high cost and yet perishable items such as airline tickets concert tickets and sporting event tickets are sold by providers to consumers with restrictions on the transferability of those items. For example with items such as airline tickets an airline i.e. a provider may sell an airline ticket to a first passenger i.e. a consumer twenty one days in advance of the corresponding flight at a heavily discounted fare. In such a case the airline would likely place restrictions on the transferability of the airline ticket in order to prevent the first passenger from selling the airline ticket to a second passenger a few days before the corresponding flight at less than what the airline would charge the second passenger for the same ticket at that time. The airline prevents such a transfer in order to prevent the first passenger from competing with the airline for the sale of the airline ticket to the second passenger.

Such restrictions on transferability may greatly burden a consumer when for reasons beyond the consumer s control the consumer is forced to forgo the benefit of the perishable item. For example a consumer who purchased non transferable and non refundable airline tickets may be forced to lose the value of those tickets when the consumer is unable to make the corresponding flight due to unforeseeable business or personal obligations or any other suitable reason.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide systems and methods for transferring perishable items with restrictions on transferability.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide systems and methods which allow consumers to transfer items with restricted transferability to other consumers.

This and other objects of the present invention are accomplished in accordance with the principles of the invention by providing systems and methods which enable consumers to transfer goods and services with restricted transferability. Initially these systems and methods wait for a first consumer to make a request to transfer an item such as an airline ticket after having purchased the item directly or indirectly from a provider such as an airline . Once the request is received the systems and methods then compose and send a request to transfer the item to the provider. This request may indicate inducements to the provider that will be granted in exchange for the provider authorizing a transfer. If the transfer is authorized the systems and methods then present information regarding the item to other consumers including a second consumer. This information may be presented as part of a bidding interface or as part of an advertising interface. Once the second consumer submits a winning bid for the item when the information is presented in a bidding interface or an acceptable offer when the information is presented in an advertising interface the transfer of the item can then be completed with or without the assistance of an intermediary that may also be a provider of the systems and methods of the present invention . When the transfer is completed without the assistance of an intermediary the first and second consumer may directly transfer the item and payment to each other. When the transfer is completed with the assistance of an intermediary the first consumer may send the item to the intermediary and the second consumer may send payment to the intermediary. Once both the item and the payment have been received at the intermediary the intermediary may send the item to the second consumer and all of the payment or part of the payment when commission payments are made to the first consumer.

Although the present invention is illustrated in connection with airline tickets the invention is equally applicable to other types of items such as concert tickets sporting event tickets option contract rights systems for which a non refundable deposit has been paid e.g. hotel rooms car rentals and restaurant reservations etc.

Turning first to an example of a transaction flow of one embodiment of the systems and methods of the present invention is illustrated. As shown a first consumer may purchase an item at steps and by for example providing a provider with a payment step and provider providing first consumer with an item e.g. goods or services step . At any point after first consumer purchases the item at steps and first consumer may submit a request at step to a transfer system to transfer the item.

When a transfer is requested system may prompt first consumer for the desired conditions for the transfer. For example system may prompt first consumer as to whether first consumer would like to auction the item or simply post an advertisement for the item. System may also prompt first consumer for additional selling information such as a minimum sale price for the item or any other suitable information or any combination thereof. Alternatively this information may be submitted as part of the request.

Transfer system may then request that provider authorize a transfer of the item at step . System may also ask provider to verify that first consumer is in fact in possession of the item.

When requesting authorization at step system may indicate an inducement to provider that may be granted in exchange for the provider granting authorization to transfer the item. For example a flat fee such as 50 may be paid to the provider system in order to release the restriction on transferability. As another example a percentage fee such as 10 of the transfer price may be paid to the provider system. As yet another example the fee paid may be higher when the provider system is also trying to sell similar items to other consumers e.g. when a corresponding flight is not sold out and lower otherwise. As still another example the provider system may place additional restrictions on the transfer such as a minimum transfer price a maximum number of items that may be sold or any other suitable restriction or any suitable combination thereof. As a further example the provider system may be given the option of buying back the item at an agreed upon price. Any other suitable approach may also be used. At step system may then receive an authorization or denial for the transfer. This authorization or denial may then be communicated to first consumer at step .

Referring to an example of a process for performing steps of is illustrated. As shown in an interface may be presented at step to consumer that allows the consumer to create a consumer profile. The interface may for example prompt the consumer for his her full name address es telephone number s e mail address es credit card information and any other information suitable for use by transfer system . This profile may then be stored in a database in system .

Upon creating the profile consumer may then request to transfer an item with restricted transferability at step . The consumer may request to transfer the item by auctioning or posting an advertisement for the item. Once consumer has requested to transfer the item system may contact provider to request authorization to transfer the item at step . System may use information in the consumer profile in requesting authorization. System may also verify with provider that consumer is in fact in possession of the item. For example system may query provider for information on whether consumer possesses the item. Alternatively system may request that consumer provide any additional information on the item such as a serial number to verify possession.

In response to the request made at step provider may authorize or deny the requested transfer at step . This authorization or denial may be provided via e mail telephone printed mail or any other suitable method. At step when an authorization is granted provider may add any additional restrictions on transfer of the item such as a minimum transfer price a maximum number of items additional contract terms or any other suitable restriction or any suitable combination thereof. Finally at step system may then notify consumer whether the requested transfer was authorized and what additional restrictions if any have been imposed. The system may for example relay the provider s decision to the consumer by sending an e mail pop up message printed message which is mailed to the consumer or any other suitable printed or electronic notification.

Turning back to if the request to transfer the item is authorized system may then present information to consumers including a second consumer at step . Information may be provided in the form of an advertisement or as part of an auction system. In response to this information a second consumer may indicate a willingness to receive the item via an auction or in response to a posted advertisement for example. Once a second consumer has been found the participation of system in the transfer may be complete and consumers and may close the transfer through steps and . As illustrated closing the sale may include second consumer sending money to first consumer at step and first consumer sending the item to second consumer at step .

Alternatively system may assist in closing the transfer on behalf of consumers and . For example system may notify provider of the transfer so that the provider may void out the item possessed by first consumer and issue a new item to second consumer . As another example system may instruct second consumer to send a payment to system at step and instruct first consumer to send the item to system at step after which system will send the payment to first consumer at step and the item to second consumer at step . In this capacity system may act as an intermediary or may use an external intermediary.

System may charge a service fee for providing this service. This fee may be paid by first consumer second consumer and or provider . The fee may be subtracted from the payment made at step for example. Alternatively a payment could be made from first consumer at the time of submitting the request at step .

In order to verify the authenticity of first consumer and second consumer and to insure performance of their obligations each consumer may be prompted by system to enter suitable information such as a name an address a telephone number a credit card number a social security number or any other suitable information or any combination thereof at any time.

Turning to an example of a process for performing steps of is illustrated. As shown at step system may retrieve request information regarding transferring of the item that was previously submitted by first consumer e.g. asking price item description bidding duration whether to auction or advertise the item etc. . In one suitable approach first consumer may decide to post an advertisement and accept the first bid when for example the consumer possesses an item which expires in a few days. In another suitable approach the consumer may decide to auction an item when for example the consumer desires to obtain the best possible offer gained through bidding competition.

At step system uses this information to determine whether first consumer wants to advertise or auction the item. When the consumer desires to auction the item the system may add the item to a bidding interface at step . At step second consumer may be presented with this interface in order to enable that consumer to place a bid on the item.

This interface preferably facilitates the consumer inputting bidding information at step . Bidding information may include the consumer s name billing address shipping address bid and or any other suitable information. At step the system may then determine if the auctioning period is over. If the auctioning period is not over process may loop back to step and allow additional bids to be placed. In this example system will provide the item to the consumer with the best bid placed at step prior to the end of a bidding period. The bidding period may be determined by consumer or system and may be for some period of time after a first bid is received or until at least one bid is received after at least a minimum period of time.

If it is determined at step that consumer decided to post an advertisement at step however system may then add the item to an advertising interface at step . Second consumer may be presented with this interface in order to facilitate offering to buy the item at step . When second consumer offers to buy the item system may provide a notification to first consumer at step . For example system may provide the item to second consumer when his offer matches the criteria of the request information. For example the given offer must be greater than or equal to an asking price.

Once system has received an acceptable offer at step or after the auctioning period has lapsed at step system may provide consumers and with options relating to transferring the item at step . For example the system may allow each consumer to send their respective item or payment to system . In this approach system preferably handles the processing and may charge each consumer with a handling fee. In another suitable approach system may allow consumers and to send the item and payment directly to each other without intervention from system . Yet another suitable approach system may notify provider of a transfer between consumers and . In such a case system may require provider for example to reissue tickets reservations or any other item to second consumer and void the original item. Provider may request additional information from each consumer and such as name address es phone number s etc. in order to complete the transfer of items. Any other suitable approach for transferring items may also be used.

The systems and methods of the present invention may be implemented using any suitable communication network. One embodiment of such a communication network is shown in . As illustrated transfer system may be implemented as a web site that is hosted on an Internet web page server which may be any suitable server. A provider system a first consumer computer and a second consumer computer may be connected to Internet web page server or any other suitable server through any suitable Internet connections .

Internet web page server may be any server suitable for providing access to a web site operating as system . Internet web page server may for example provide one or more web pages to first consumer computer and second consumer computer using one or more suitable protocols e.g. the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . The server may also run a database engine suitable for maintaining a database of consumer and item information. In practice one or more functions of first consumer computer second consumer computer and the Internet web page server may be integrated into a single server or may be distributed across multiple servers.

Any suitable Internet connections may be used in communication network in accordance with the present invention. For example Internet connections may be comprised in whole or in part of the Internet an intranet a public data network a private data network a wireless network a cable network any other suitable data network or combination of networks dial up connections etc.

Thus systems and methods for transferring items with restricted transferability are provided. It will be understood that the foregoing is only illustrative of the principles of the invention and that various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention which is limited only by the claims that follow.

