---

title: RF power recovery feedback circulator
abstract: A device and method for improving the efficiency of RF systems having a Reflective Load. In the preferred embodiment, Reflected Energy from a superconducting resonator of a particle accelerator is reintroduced to the resonator after the phase of the Reflected Energy is aligned with the phase of the Supply Energy from a RF Energy Source. In one embodiment, a Circulator is used to transfer Reflected Energy from the Reflective Load into a Phase Adjuster which aligns the phase of the Reflected Energy with that of the Supply Energy. The phase-aligned energy is then combined with the Supply Energy, and reintroduced into the Reflective Load. In systems having a constant phase shift, the Phase Adjuster may be designed to shift the phase of the Reflected Energy by a constant amount using a Phase Shifter. In systems having a variety (variable) phase shifts, a Phase Shifter controlled by a phase feedback loop comprising a Phase Detector and a Feedback Controller to account for the various phase shifts is preferable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07915840&OS=07915840&RS=07915840
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07915840
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070424
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the University of Chicago.

The coupling of RF radio frequency circuits often causes signal reflection. This reflected signal is captured and sent to a dummy load a resistive cell. Normally RF systems such as those used in communications are specifically designed to eliminate or at least minimize signal reflectivity. However in non communication RF systems such as those employed in particle accelerators reflectivity can be a very serious problem. These systems often have a reflectivity greater than about 80 and as high as about 99 resulting in large RF energy transfer inefficiencies.

Particle accelerators such as ATLAS Argonne Tandem Linac Accelerator System at Argonne National Laboratory use superconducting resonators. These superconducting resonators have a very high Q quality factor and therefore have a very narrow frequency bandwidth. Therefore careful attention must be made to ensure the resonator resonance frequency is at the frequency of the RF Energy Source RF drive frequency supplied to the superconducting resonator. Careful attention must also be made to ensure that the resonator RF field is in phase with the RF Energy Source. For example the resonators used in ATLAS at Argonne National Laboratory have a loaded Q on the order of 10 and a resonance frequency of 97 MHz plus or minus only a few hertz. Frequencies outside of the resonance frequency have little to no effect.

Unfortunately the resonance frequency of the superconducting resonators is continuously altered by factors such as cryogenic pressure variations background mechanical vibrations known as microphonics and ponderomotive force from ion movement detuning.

One method of ensuring the resonator can efficiently utilize RF energy from the RF Energy Source is to overcouple the resonator effectively increasing the bandwidth of the resonator. By increasing the resonator bandwidth RF phase errors due to RE resonant frequency variations in the resonator can be reduced.

Unfortunately when overcoupled a significant amount of RF energy from the RF Energy Source is reflected back to the RF Energy Source. As the Reflected Energy can potentially damage the RE Energy Source this Reflected Energy is normally routed through a circulator to a dummy load for dissipation. As resonators used in superconducting particle accelerators can have a reflectivity as high as 99 a very significant amount of energy is lost due to overcoupling.

Another method of ensuring the resonator resonance frequency matches the frequency of the RE Energy Source is to continuously match the resonator frequency using a VCX voltage controlled reactance system VCX systems are generally focused on achieving phase synchronization with the resonance frequency of the resonator.

VCX systems such as those used by ATLAS at Argonne National Laboratory are based on PIN diodes used to switch the superconducting resonator between high and a low frequency states chosen to bracket the resonate frequency. In the high frequency state the resonator RF phase processes forward relative to the phase of RF Energy Source and in the low frequency state backwards.

Phase control is achieved with a diode driver which switches the diodes between the two states. Within the switching period the diodes can be turned on for a controlled time which generally vary from 5 to 95 of the switching cycle. Modulation of the duty factor provides an effectively continuous control of the direction of phase precession hence also the mean frequency received by the resonator. Unfortunately VCX systems add additional complexity to the resonator and are problematic in high RF field applications. This additional complexity increases startup costs maintenance costs as well as operating costs. These additional components also absorb energy reducing the efficiency of the system while generating heat.

Therefore there exists a need for a simple reliable low cost and energy efficient means of recuperating reflected RF energy. More particularly there exist a need of supplying energy to a superconducting resonator while minimizing ene loss and system complexity.

A device and method for improving the efficiency of RF systems having a Reflective Load. Generally an RF Energy Source supplies a Supply Energy to a Reflective Load. Some energy is reflected off the Reflective Load producing a Reflected Energy. Reflected Energy from the Reflective Load is reintroduced to the Reflective Load after the phase of the Reflected Energy is properly aligned in the case of a substantially constant phase shift torn substantially constant reflections off the load the phase of the Reflected Energy is adjusted by a constant amount to substantially match the phase of the RF Energy Source. In systems having a variety variable of phase shifts from a substantially variable reflections off the load a phase feedback loop to account for the various phase shifts is preferable.

It is an object of an embodiment of the present invention to increase the efficiency of RF systems by recovering and reusing reflected RF energy. It is another object of an embodiment of the present invention for the efficient and economical energy delivery to a particle accelerator utilizing a superconducting resonator.

Still it is yet another object of an embodiment of the present invention for the efficient and economical energy delivery to a heavy particle accelerator utilizing a superconducting resonator.

A device and method for improving the efficiency of RF systems having a Reflective Load. Generally an RF Energy Source supplies a Supply Energy to a Reflective Load. Some energy is reflected off the Reflective Load producing a Reflected Energy. Reflected Energy from the reflective load is reintroduced to the reflective load after the phase of the Reflected Energy is properly aligned. In the case of a substantially constant phase shift from substantially constant reflections off the load the phase of the Reflected Energy is adjusted by a constant amount to substantially match the phase of the RF Energy Source. In systems having a variety variable of phase shifts from a substantially variable reflections off the load a phase feedback loop to account for the various phase shifts is preferable.

An embodiment of an RF Power Recovery Feedback Circulator shown in generally comprises a RF Energy Source a Combiner an RF Circulator a Reflective Load and a Phase Adjuster . The RF Energy Source is connected to the Combiner preferably by a wire . The Combiner is connected to the Circulator preferably by a wire . The Circulator is connected to the Reflective Load preferably by a wire and the Phase Adjuster preferably by a wire . The Phase Adjuster is also connected to the Combiner preferably by a wire .

The RF Energy Source generates a Supply Energy. The RF Energy Source is preferably connected to the Combiner by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. In the alternative waveguides may be substituted for the various wires. For example in particle accelerator applications the RF Energy Source generates a Supply Energy in order to feed the Reflective Load resonator in order to accelerate charged particles. Preferably the RF Energy Source produces a Supply Energy of about 10 Watts up to 10 Megawatts depending on the output power desired. In the preferred embodiment the RF Energy Source is a 1 10 000 MHz generator producing about 10 Watts to about 10 Megawatts of Supply Energy in the another embodiment the RF Energy Source produces a Supply Energy of about 10 Watts up to about 10 000 Watts at about 40 200 Mhz. In yet another embodiment the RF Energy Source produces a Supply Energy in excess of 10 Megawatts.

The Combiner has a First Input Connection a Second Input Connection and an Output Connection. The Combiner combines RF signals RF waves at the First Input Connection and the Second Input Connection into the Output Connection of the Combiner while minimizing any reflections and energy loss. The First. Input Connection is connected to the RF Energy Source by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. The Second Input Connection is connected to the Phase Adjuster by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. The Output Connection of the Combiner is connected by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline to the Circulator . In the alternative waveguides may be substituted for the various wires.

The Combiner may utilize various designs such as quadrature or hybrid structures. In quadrature structures the Output Connection of the Combiner is the combination of the First Input Connection and Second Input Connection of the Combiner having a 90 degree phase difference between them. Preferably the Combiner is selected considering the desired phase shift frequency range insertion loss isolation and RF connector type. Examples of suitable Combiners include the Combiners described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 377 133 5 892 414 and 5 455 546 hereby fully incorporated by reference.

The RF Circulator comprises an Input Connection port and Output Connection port and a Reflection Connection port . The Input Connection connected to the Output Connection of the Combiner by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. The Output Connection port is connected to the Reflective Load by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. The Reflection Connection port is connected to the Phase Adjuster by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. In the alternative waveguides may be substituted for the various wires. The RF Circulator transfers energy inputted at the Input Connection to the Output Connection while minimizing reflections and energy loss. The RE Circulator also transfers energy inputted at the Output Connection to the Reflection Connection while minimizing reflections and energy loss.

The RF Circulator is preferably a passive microwave ferrite device with three P P P or four P P P P ports in which the ports can be accessed in such an order that when a signal is fed into any port it is transferred to the next port in the direction P P P P or P P P P P while minimizing any RF reflections and energy loss. In one embodiment the RF Circulator is a four port waveguide circulator based on Faraday rotation of propagating waves in a magnetized material or a three port turnstile or Y junction circulator based on cancellation of waves propagating over two different paths near a magnetized material. In the preferred embodiment the RF Circulator is a three port Y junction coaxial RF Circulator Examples of suitable RF Circulators includes the RF Circulators described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 573 666 5 384 556 and 5 963 108 hereby fully incorporated by reference.

The Reflective Load is a device capable of absorbing the Supply Energy produced by the RF Energy Source while at least partially reflecting the Supply Energy creating a Reflected Energy. shows a graph of the power gain resulting from the preferred embodiment depending on the percentage of reflectivity of the Reflective Load . The Reflective Load preferably has a reflection coefficient greater than 41.4 the unity power gain. In the preferred embodiment the Reflective Load is a superconducting resonator of a particle accelerator having a Q quality factor greater than about 10 more preferably about 10 and even more preferably 10. In another embodiment the Reflective Load is an antenna or any another RE load known in the art.

The Phase Adjuster has an input Connection and an Output Connection and aligns the phase of the RF signal at the Input Connection to the phase of the RF Energy Source at the Combiner . The Input Connection of the Phase Adjuster is connected to the Reflection Connection of the Circulator by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. The Output Connection of the Phase Adjuster is connected to the Second input Connection of the Combiner by a wire preferably a coaxial cable or a stripline. In the alternative waveguides may be substituted for the various wires.

Depending on the Combiner the Phase Adjuster may need to provide a determined phase relationship between the Supply Energy from the RF Energy Source and the Reflected Energy from the Reflection Connection of the Circulator to compensate for any phase modification from the Combiner . The Phase Adjuster is preferably a low loss passive device. In systems where the Reflective Load produces Reflected Energy with a constant phase shift the Phase Adjuster is designed to shift the phase of the Reflected Energy from the Reflected Load passed through the Circulator by a constant amount. In the case where the Reflective Load produces Reflected Energy having a variety of phase shifts the Phase Adjuster should be designed to adapt to phase of the Reflected Energy to that of the RE Energy Source .

For systems having reflectivity with a variety variable of phase shifts the embodiment of an RF Power Recovery Feedback Circulator shown in is preferable. shows a Phase Adjuster having a Phase Detector a Feedback Controller and a Phase Shifter . The Phase Detector has a First Input Connection a Second Input Connection and an Output. Connection. The Feedback Controller has an Input Connection and an Output Connection. The Phase Shifter has an Input Connection Output Connection and a Control Input Connection.

The Phase Detector and the Feedback Controller form a phase feedback loop controlling the Phase Shifter . The First Input of the Phase Detector is connected to the RF Energy Source by a wire . The Second Input Connection of the Phase Detector is connected to the Output Connection of the Phase Shifter by a wire . The Output Connection of the Phase Detector is connected to the input Connection of the Feedback Controller by a wire . The Output. Connection of the Feedback Controller is connected to the Control Input Connection of the Phase Shifter by a wire . The input Connection of the Phase Shifter is connected to the Reflection Connection of the Circulator . The Output Connection of the Phase Shifter is connected to the Second Input Connection of the Combiner and the Second Input of the Phase Detector

The Phase Detector detects the phase difference between the Supply Energy from the RF Energy Source and the phase adjusted energy from the Output Connection of the Phase Shifter and outputs a signal thereof. In the preferred embodiment the Phase Detector outputs a DC voltage related to the phase difference of the Supply Energy from the RF Energy Source and the phase adjusted energy from the Output Connection of the Phase Shifter .

The feedback controller stabilizes the phase relationship between the Supply Energy from the RF Energy Source and phase adjusted energy from the Output Connection of the Phase Shifter . Preferably the feedback controller is a PID Proportional Integral Derivative controller or a Digital controller. In the preferred embodiment the feedback controller amplifies the Phase Detector output to achieve high feedback loop gain and while also stabilizing the feedback loop.

In the case where the Reflective Load has a constant reflectivity whereby energy reflected off the Reflective Load has the same phase adjustment the Phase Detector and Feedback Controller may be omitted as shown in in this embodiment the Phase Shifter is selected and configured to adjust the phase of the Reflected Energy from the Reflective Load by the predetermined phase difference between the Reflected Energy of the Reflective Load and the Supply Energy of the RF Energy Source .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements. For example Reflected Energy in a communication system may be similarly rerouted to the RF Energy Source of the communications system reintroduced into the transmission stage of the communication system or routed directly to the Reflective Load. In yet another embodiment reflections in a microwave system may be similarly rerouted to the RF Energy Source of the microwave system reintroduced into the transmission stage of the microwave system or routed directly to the Reflective Load.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C 112 6.

