---

title: Generating a genre-based video mosaic in a cable services network
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for generating a genre-based video mosaic from multiple of video sources in a cable services network system. A cable services head end periodically searches a database for a genre descriptor identifying a type of programming broadcast in the cable services network, selects a group of video sources associated with the genre descriptor which are currently being broadcast in the cable services network, and generates a mosaic including the group of video sources associated with the genre descriptor which are currently being broadcast in the cable services network. A set-top box receives the mosaic from the head end, executes an application program enabling a subscriber to selectively tune the video sources in the mosaic, and displays the mosaic on a broadcast channel in the cable services network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288424&OS=09288424&RS=09288424
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09288424
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070209
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 772 431 filed Feb. 10 2006 entitled Methods And Systems For Generating A Genre Based Video Mosaic In A Cable Services Network. 

With the advent of cable services networks cable subscribers have grown accustomed to receiving a variety of television programming from numerous broadcasting sources. In recent years technology advances have enabled subscribers to receive an even greater variety of products and services through cable services networks. Modern cable services networks provide traditional video television programming telephone services high speed internet access electronic mail services video on demand information services and the like. Through the use of set top boxes computing systems cable services providers can provide interactive television services to subscribers. Such interactive television services allow customers to interact directly with services providers in response to services and product offerings presented to the subscribers through their television sets. For example in some current cable services networks subscribers are able to use a set top box to access a dedicated screen for viewing a call log of missed calls made to a subscriber telephone number.

Unfortunately current systems do not offer real time management of telephone calls e.g. answering calls forwarding calls etc. made to a subscriber telephone number nor are they capable of displaying notifications of incoming calls while a subscriber is viewing television. Because current systems do not offer real time notification and disposition of telephone calls a subscriber may miss desired telephone calls. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

In accordance with the present invention the above and other problems are solved by methods and systems for generating a genre based video mosaic from multiple video sources in a cable services network. The methods and systems enable a cable services head end to automatically group multiple video sources broadcast from the head end according to a genre and to simultaneously display the genre based group of video sources as a video mosaic on a single broadcast channel in the cable services network.

According to one aspect of the invention a method is provided for dynamically generating a genre based video mosaic from a plurality of video sources in a cable services network. The method includes periodically searching a database in a cable services head end for a genre descriptor. The one genre descriptor identifies a type of programming broadcast in the cable services network. The method further includes in response to each periodic search of the database selecting multiple video sources associated with the genre descriptor which are currently being broadcast in the cable services network and in response to receiving the genre descriptor generating a mosaic including the multiple video sources associated with the genre descriptor which are currently being broadcast in the cable services network.

Various other aspects of the invention may be implemented by a head end and a set top box in a cable television services system. The head end is operative to periodically search a database for a genre descriptor identifying a type of programming broadcast in the cable services network select a group of video sources associated with the genre descriptor which are currently being broadcast in the cable services network and generate a mosaic including the group of video sources associated with the genre descriptor which are currently being broadcast in the cable services network. The set top box is operative to receive the mosaic from the head end execute an application program enabling a subscriber to selectively tune the video sources in the mosaic and display the mosaic on a broadcast channel in the cable services network.

These and various other features as well as advantages which characterize the present invention will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements various embodiments of the present invention will be described. These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. According to an actual embodiment the present invention is implemented in a cable television services system in communication with one or more telecommunications sources. is a block diagram illustrating a cable television services system architecture hereinafter referred to as CATV system that serves as an illustrative operating environment for the present invention.

Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box set top box functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the set top box . As illustrated in the set top box is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the set top box via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The set top box also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the set top box and the server side head end system described below.

The set top box also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the set top box in conjunction with a variety of client applications . Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to the client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between a server side application server and the client side set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side set top box format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The set top box may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The set top box may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the set top box and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a frequency between 54 and 860 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content including broadcast video sources for distributing through the HFC network to client side set top boxes for presentation to customers via televisions . The head end includes an interactive programming guide IPG database which information related to video sources i.e. programming broadcast in the CATV system . The IPG database maintains programming data related to programming offered in the CATV system which is continuously updated over a predefined time period e.g. seven days fourteen days etc. . As will be discussed in greater detail below with respect to the IPG database the programming data includes genre descriptors which identify the types of programming available e.g. Sports News Reality Kids Drama Music Religious Romance Sci Fi Soap Opera Biography Adult etc. . In accordance with the various embodiments of the present invention server application program in the head end may be configured to periodically search the IPG database for a predefined set of genre descriptors and initiate the generation of a genre based video mosaic from multiple video sources broadcast in the CATV system for distribution to the set top box and for presentation to customers via the television .

In the head end the application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . In the various embodiments of the present invention the application server is also operative to execute a server application program for periodically searching the IPG database for programming described by one or more predefined genre descriptors and instruct components in the head end discussed below with respect to to dynamically generate a genre based video mosaic. For example the server application program may be configured to search the IPG database every ten minutes for Sports programming currently being broadcast in the CATV system compile a list of the Sports programs and automatically initiate the generation of a video mosaic of Sports programs for transmission to a subscriber set top box.

As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services.

The subscriber information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like as well as information about subscribed services such as whether or not a customer has high speed Internet access an e mail account and premium programming access. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services and serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems.

It should be understood that the broadcast video sources may comprise both analog and digital video sources. It should be appreciated that in one embodiment the head end may include additional hardware not shown for converting the analog video sources to digital video via analog to digital A D conversion. Various methods of A D conversion are well known to skilled in the art. In one embodiment the digital video sources either native or converted from analog sources may be formatted according to the MPEG 2 digital video compression standard although it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the digital video sources may be formatted according to other video compression standards such as MPEG 4 or alternatively the digital video sources may in an uncompressed i.e. raw format.

The router multiplexes the video sources into a single video stream and forwards the video stream to a scaling transcoding multiplexer SXM . Similarly the router multiplexes the video sources into a single video stream and forwards the video stream to SXM . In one embodiment of the present invention the multiplexed video streams forwarded to the SXMs and are gigabit Ethernet GbE video streams with each stream including as many as 250 of 3.5 megabits per second quality MPEG 2 bit streams. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the actual number of bit streams in a GbE stream may vary depending upon various factors including GbE overhead initial stream bit rates and the format of the input bit streams. Each of the encapsulated video sources in the multiplexed video streams received by the SXMs and may be identified by format and bit rate.

The multiplexed video streams forwarded by the routers and are attached to the SXMs and . The SXMs and are operative to handle multiple input video streams and performs scaling transcoding i.e. converting from one format to another and multiplexing of each input video stream after being de multiplexed from the received multiplexed video streams . Each SXM de multiplexes an input video stream comprising the broadcast video sources and transcodes each of the video sources into a common raw format. In particular each SXM decodes and decompresses video sources which may have been formatted according to different digital video compression standards e.g. MPEG 2 MPEG 4 etc. as necessary. Once each of the video sources has been transcoded into a common format each SXM then scales the video from each video source from an initial i.e. full screen format into a configurable sized window. For example a full screen size of 640 480 having 65 536 colors i.e. 16 bit color may be scaled down into a video window having a size of 80 60 with 256 colors i.e. 8 bit color . After the video sources have been scaled into video windows the SXMs compress each of the video windows into a configurable bit stream at a configurable bit rate. For example a video window may be compressed into an MPEG 4 bit stream at a bit rate of 64 kilobits per second. Each SXM then multiplexes or combines each of the compressed video windows into a single output video stream and transmits the video stream to the compositors via the router . In one embodiment of the present invention the output video stream is a single GbE connection capable of handling thousands of compressed video streams e.g. a single GbE connection may include 10 000 video sources at a 64 kilobit per second bit rate .

The compositors are general purpose computers which composite i.e. select combine and if necessary convert video sources from the output video streams from the SXMs and into a single video for delivery to a subscriber associated with the set top box . For example according to one embodiment of the present invention the compositors may be configured to composite MPEG 4 video sources into a single MPEG 2 or MPEG 4 video stream. Those skilled in the art will understand that the video sources composited in the compositors may undergo quadrature amplitude modulation QAM via QAM units prior to being communicated to the set top box via the RF combiner . According to the various embodiments of the present invention the compositors may be instructed by the server application to select and group video sources together into video mosaic streams based on the genre descriptors retrieved from the IPG database and transmit the genre based video streams i.e. the mosaic to the set top box as will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

Referring now to an illustrative routine will be described illustrating a process performed in the head end of the CATV system for dynamically generating a genre based video mosaic from a plurality of video sources according to an embodiment of the present invention. The routine begins at operation wherein the server application is executed on the application server in the head end and periodically searches the IPG database for current program guide information and associated genre descriptors. In particular the server application may search the IPG database based on a fixed number of genre descriptors defined by the CATV system and compile lists of currently airing programs for each genre such as the list shown in the table discussed above in . It will be appreciated that the number of genre descriptors searched for by the IPG database may be limited by the available bandwidth in the CATV system . That is the number of genre descriptors searched for in the IPG database may be limited by the number of available channels for broadcasting mosaics in the CATV system .

The routine then continues from operation at operation where the server application program instructs the compositors to select groups of currently airing programs from the video stream received from the SXMs and which correspond to each of the genre descriptors. In particular the compositors de multiplex the input video stream received from the SXMs and via the router . As discussed above in the SXMs and convert broadcast and local origination video sources in the CATV system into compressed video windows and multiplex the video windows into a single video stream.

The routine then continues from operation at operation where the compositors generate a mosaic from each of the selected groups of currently airing programs selected from the video stream which correspond to the predefined genre descriptors. In particular the compositors multiplex the video windows corresponding to each genre descriptor into single output video streams as genre based mosaics.

The routine then continues from operation at operation where the compositors transmit the genre based mosaics including program audio to a subscriber via the set top box . In particular the genre based video mosaics are transmitted to the set top box which receives the mosaic and broadcasts each of the selected video windows simultaneously on a predetermined broadcast channel for each mosaic in the CATV system . It should be understood that the compositors in transmitting the genre based video mosaics also transmits audio signals associated with each of the currently airing programs comprising each mosaic thus enabling a subscriber to listen to program audio while simultaneously viewing a selected video window on the predetermined broadcast channel in the CATV system . It should be further understood that the compositors may be instructed by the server application to transmit the currently airing programs comprising each mosaic in a predetermined order e.g. by channel number by program title etc. . The routine then ends.

Referring now to the television screen display includes a program guide including a channel description of a currently tuned genre based video mosaic channel a scaled video window of the currently tuned channel and a program guide listing which lists genre based video mosaic channels which may be selected by a subscriber.

Referring now to the television screen display includes a genre based video mosaic consisting of video windows which show programming corresponding to a genre descriptor in the IPG database in the CATV system . In the mosaic each of the video windows are identified by channel banners identifying the channels for each of the programs displayed in the video windows in the mosaic. A selection window may be used to select any of the video windows displayed in the mosaic. According to the various embodiments of the present invention the selection window is a graphical user interface which may be generated by the client applications in the set top box whenever the tuner is tuned to a mosaic channel. The selection window may be used to move among the displayed video windows using the remote control device . It should be understood that once a video window is selected by the selection window the client applications instruct the set top box to transmit the current audio feed for the currently airing program to the television display device . That is by selecting a video window with the selection window the subscriber not only is able to view the currently airing program stream but also hear the audio which is broadcast with the program in the CATV system . It should also be understood that the set top box client applications may enable the selection window to tune to a selected video window as if selecting a channel from a program guide. Once a video window has been tuned the set top box generates a full screen display of the corresponding channel.

The television screen display also includes More Channels buttons which are selectable buttons for programs comprising the mosaic whose video windows which will not fit on the television screen display . The More Channels buttons may be selected by the remote control device to tune to a selected channel. If the number of More Channels is larger than the space available on the television screen display then scroll buttons may be activated by the set top box client applications to enable the viewing and selection of the additional channels.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that the various embodiments of the invention include a methods and systems for generating a genre based video mosaic from multiple video sources in a cable services network. The methods and systems enable a cable services head end to automatically group multiple video sources broadcast from the head end according to a genre and to simultaneously display the genre based group of video sources as a video mosaic on a single broadcast channel in the cable services network.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

