---

title: Electrical insulation of devices with thin layers
abstract: A novel, economical electrical insulation method for the production of ultra-thin insulation layers using a solution coating method. Thin hydrophobic self-assembled bi-functional layers of less than 10 nm thick were deposited by a simple solution method and demonstrated to electrically insulate micro-/nano-devices for in-water detection applications. The insulation layer includes a hydrophobic group which repels water and permits superb insulation properties of the ultra-thin layers. The insulation layer has the additional advantages that it binds to a metal or metal oxide surface and to sensing receptors by covalent bonding using standard silane chemistry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08197757&OS=08197757&RS=08197757
owner: Drexel University
number: 08197757
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070706
---
This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. R01 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to micro scale and nano scale devices. More particularly the present invention relates to electrical insulation of micro scale and nano scale devices for use in aqueous environments.

Due to the small size of micro and nano devices the insulation layer must be very thin and yet effective for electrical insulation so as not to adversely affect the mechanical performance of the micro nano devices. In addition the method for providing the insulation layer on the devices must also be economical for large scale industrial applications.

In biosensing applications the micro nano devices must be electrically insulated in a manner that allows them to be completely submerged in aqueous ionic buffers without a short circuit. In addition the insulation layer must be able to accommodate immobilization of a receptor on the insulation layer and exhibit good bonding with the electrode surface as well as with the immobilized receptor.

Thin ceramic layers such as MgO C. Bondoux P. Pren P. Belleville F. Guillet S. Lambert B. Minot and R. J risian MgO Insulating Films Prepared by Sol gel Route for SiC Substrate 25 12 2795 2798 2005 as well as AlO SiN TaO TiO BaTiOand SrTiO P. Katiyar C. Jin and R. J. Narayan Electrical Properties of Amorphous Aluminum Oxide Thin Films 53 9 2617 2622 2005 and the references cited therein Nguyen L. T. T. et al. cited infra have been shown to be effective insulation layers but they require high vacuum chemical vapor deposition CVD for applications. CVD is expensive and slow. Although polymeric insulation coatings such as polyimides L. T. T. Nguyen H. N. Nguyen and T. H. T. La Synthesis and Characterization of a Photosensitive Polyimide Precursor and its Photocuring Behavior for Lithography Applications In Press Corrected Proof Available online 3 Jan. 2006 http www.sciencedirect.com science article B6TXP 4HYD9 KB 3 2 bb4da50c417e914af8950e8ba0ceb1b3 and S. H. Cho S. H. Kim N. E. Lee H. M. Kim and Y. W. Nam Micro Scale Metallization on Flexible Polyimide Substrate by Cu Electroplating Using SU 8 Photoresist Mask 475 1 2 Proceedings of the 4th Asian European International Conference on Plasma Surface Engineering 22 Mar. 2005 Pages 68 71. http www.sciencedirect.com science article B6TW0 4DTKFCN 5 2 100c045e03c50e9a3aee6120537ded2a and benzocyclobutene BCB M. Ohnmacht V. Seidemann and S. Buttgenbach Microcoils and Microrelays an Optimized Multilayer Fabrication Process 83 124 129 2000 can be deposited using a wet solution method they require a thickness of tens of microns to be effective too thick for micro nano device applications. Thinner polymeric layers such as parylene require use of CVD for applications D. Feili M. Schuettler T. Doerge S. Kammer and T. Stieglitz Encapsulation of Organic Field Effect Transistors for Flexible Biomedical Microimplants 120 101 109 2005 and K. S. Hwang J. H. Lee J. Park D. S. Yoon J. H. Park and T. S. Kim In situ Quantitative Analysis of a Prostate Specific Antigen PSA Using a Nanomechanical PZT Cantilever 4 547 2004 . Additional disadvantages of parylene include poor adhesion to the electrode surface A. Khabari and F. K. Urban III Partially Ionized Beam Deposition of Parylene 351 3536 3541 2005 and difficulties in the subsequent step of receptor immobilization Feili D. et al. cited infra .

Accordingly there is a need in the art for improved insulation layers for use in electromechanical devices.

The present invention provides a very thin insulation layer which lends itself to bonding of a receptor thereon. More specifically micro nano devices are electrically insulated with bi functional thin layers using a solution method. The present invention may be applied to various examples of piezoelectric biosensors such as lead magnesium niobate lead titanate PMN PT metal and lead zirconate titanate PZT glass piezoelectric microcantilever sensor PEMS .

The insulation method utilizes a bi functional molecule that has a hydrophobic group and a silanol group that allows the bi functional molecule to covalently bond to a material including a receptor.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty that characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and forming a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the invention its advantages and the objects obtained by its use reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to the accompanying descriptive matter in which there is illustrated and described a preferred embodiment of the invention.

One objective of the present invention is to electrically insulate micro and nano devices including micro electromechanical systems MEMS and nano electromechanical systems NEMS for use in applications in aqueous environments. This is accomplished by electrically insulating micro nano devices with bi functional thin layers using a solution method.

The insulation method utilizes a bi functional molecule that has a hydrophobic group for example alkyl sulfhydryl phenyl etc. on one end and silanol groups on the other end that allow the molecule to covalently bond to any material that can perform silane chemistry.

A general structure of a silane based bi functional molecule is RO Si CH X I wherein y is an integer from 1 20 and the central silicon atom is bonded to three hydrolysable silanol groups RO on one end and the molecule includes an organo functional group X on the other end.

The silanols can react with other silanols to form a covalent siloxane bond Si O Si on a glass surface or with metal hydroxyl groups on minerals or metals to form a stable Si O M bond where M represents the metal.

The organo functional group X can be activated and made reactive toward organic species. For the present electrical insulation application the organo functional group can be any hydrophobic group such as alkyl sulfhydryl phenyl etc. The hydrophobic group prevents water from contacting the electrode surface thus enabling electrical insulation in water with an ultra thin insulation layer which may be no thicker than a few nanometers. For example the present invention enables insulation layers of less than 10 nm in thickness. Insulation layers in accordance with the present invention are generally at least 1 nm in thickness.

In addition the silanol group can covalently bond to an electrode surface providing excellent bonding between the electrode surface including a receptor and the insulation layer. Typically CVD based techniques can not provide good bonding with an electrode surface.

In one embodiment a minimum of two silanol groups is required one for the bonding to the silanol or hydroxyl group of the base layer and the other for bonding to the silanol or hydroxyl group of the next bi functional layer that may be for further insulation or be a receptor useful for example for protein DNA coupling.

In order to covalently link the silanol to the surface hydroxyl or silanol groups on the metal surface are necessary. Hydroxyl groups are abundant on most metal oxides polymeric surfaces and glass surfaces. The insulation method of the present invention can thus be applied to surfaces that can be converted to contain hydroxyls or silanols.

The bi functional molecule used for insulation or a different bi functional molecule containing silanes may be used to couple proteins or small peptide chains and DNA to the insulation layer surface. Coupling can also be accomplished in accordance with the present invention by the use of any molecule or macromolecule containing the functional groups necessary for the formation of a covalent bond.

The protein DNA coupling bi functional molecule can have at least one silanol group methoxy ethoxy etc. to covalently bind to the insulation layer and one residual group hydroxyl thiol amine amide carboxylic acid aldehyde ketone anhydride halide alkene alkyne etc that can be used for protein DNA conjugation in conjunction with another bi functional linker to covalently couple to proteins or small peptide chains DNA and various other macromolecules. Many kits that can be used for this purpose are commercially available.

In addition to varying the residual group one can also vary the number of carbon atoms in between the residual group and the silicon atom.

Methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS and 3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane MPS are examples of useful bi functional molecules. These molecules can covalently bond to electrode surfaces such as Ni Sn Ti or Cr that have a natural oxide layer on the surface using standard silane chemistry. These molecules can also covalently bond to a noble metal surface such as gold and platinum using MPS as a bonding layer. The thiol group of the MPS bonding layer forms a covalent bond with the noble metal surface. The silanols of the MPS bonding layer form a covalent bond with the silanols of the insulating MTMS or MPS layer using conventional silane chemistry.

The surface of the MTMS or MPS layer has plenty of silanol groups. In theory about one fourth of the MTMS or MPS surface is occupied by the methyl thiol groups and three fourths of the MTMS or MPS surface is occupied by silanol groups. The silanol groups on the insulation layer surface will allow easy covalent immobilization of receptors necessary for detection applications.

The present invention employs the hydrophobicity of the hydrophobic group to repel water thus allowing the fabrication of functional electrical insulation layers of less than 2000 nm more preferably less than 10 nm in thickness. The silane silanol groups may be used for covalent coupling to the electrode surface as well as the antibody receptor.

The present invention can be applied to electrodes with a natural oxide surface such as Ti Ni Sn and Cr and can also be used on metals without a surface oxide such as Au and Pt via a bi functional linker such as MPS. Unlike known thin insulation coatings which require high vacuum chemical vapor deposition for application the insulation layer of the present invention can be deposited using a solution coating method such as spin coating which renders the method suitable for use in large scale industrial production processes.

The present invention is useful for electrical insulation of devices for application in aqueous environments. The present invention is applicable to electromechanical devices in general and more specifically is particularly useful for micro electromechanical systems MEMS and nano electromechanical systems NEMS .

The present invention also encompasses micro electromechanical systems MEMS and nano electromechanical systems NEMS which comprise the insulation layer of the invention as well as biosensors such as piezoelectric cantilevers as well as other types of cantilever sensors including the insulation layer of the invention. These sensors can have receptors for a variety of different reactive species such as antibodies covalently bonded to the insulation layer.

In this example lead magnesium niobate lead titanate PMN PT Sn piezoelectric microcantilever sensors PEMS were used to illustrate one embodiment of the present invention. PMN PT Sn PEMS were constructed from freestanding PMN PT films of 22 m in thickness. A 30 nm thick nickel layer with a 15 30 nm thick chromium bonding layer was deposited on one side of the PMN PT freestanding film by sputtering. A 4 m thick tin layer was electroplated on the nickel surface to form the non piezoelectric layer. A 150 nm thick platinum layer with a 10 nm thick titanium layer was evaporation coated on the other face of the film as the other electrode. The PMN PT Sn bilayer was then embedded in wax and cut to the cantilever shape with a wire saw Princeton Scientific Precision Princeton N.J. . After attaching the wires to the top and bottom electrodes using conductive glue the PMN PT Sn strips were then glued to a glass substrate to form the microcantilevers.

To insulate the tin electrode of a PMN PT Sn PEMS the PEMS was first soaked in a diluted 1 40 in water piranha solution two parts of 98 sulfuric acid Fisher Fair Lawn N.J. with one part of 30 hydrogen peroxide Fisher Biotech Fair Lawn N.J. at 20 C. for 2 min to clean and oxidize the tin surface. The oxidized tin surface was then coated with three methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS 95 Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. coatings for insulation. During each coating step the tin side of the PEMS was covered with MTMS for 1 minute followed by spinning at 2500 RPM for 30 seconds Photoresist Spinner Headway Research Inc . The PEMS was then soaked in de ionized water overnight for cross linking followed by spinning at 2500 RPM for 30 sec and overnight vacuum oven Model 1400E VWR International drying at 762 mm Hg. This MTMS coating procedure was repeated one more time before the PEMS was used for detection in an aqueous environment.

To demonstrate bio detection in an aqueous environment antibodies were immobilized on the platinum surface of the PEMS. For antibody immobilization the PEMS was first cleaned with a diluted 1 40 in water piranha solution. After rinsing with de ionized water the PEMS was then submerged in a 2 mM aqueous solution of 3 mercaptopropionic acid MPA 99 Aldrich St. Louis Mo. for 3 hours in order for the sulfhydryl group of the MPA to attach to the platinum surface D. B. Colin E. B. Troughton Y. T. Tao J. Erall M. W. George and G. N. Ralph Formation of Monolayer Films by the Spontaneous Assembly of Organic Thiols From Solution onto Gold 111 321 325 1989 M. Hasan D. Bethell and M. Brust The Fate of Sulfur Bound Hydrogen on Formation of Self Assembled Thiol Monolayers on Gold H NMR Spectroscopic Evidence from Solutions of Gold Clusters 124 1132 1133 2002 and C. Gutierrez Wing J. A. Ascencio M. P rez Alvarez M. Marin Almazo and M. Jose Yacaman On the Structure and Formation of Self Assembled Lattices of Gold Nanoparticles 9 4 1998 . The carboxyl group of the immobilized MPA was then activated using a 5 mg ml aqueous solution of N Hydroxysuccinimide NHS 98 Aldrich St. Louis Mo. and 1 Ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC Sigma St. Louis Mo. for 30 minutes to be reactive to primary amines lysine in the antibody Z. Grabarek and J. Gergely Zero length Crosslinking Procedure with the use of Active Esters 185 1 131 135 1990 D. G. Hoare D. E. Koshland Jr A Method for the Quantitative Modification and Estimation of Carboxylic Acid Groups in Proteins 242 10 2447 2453 1967 and L. A. Lyon M. D. Musick P. C. Smith B. D. Reiss D. J. Pe a and M. J. Natan Surface Plasmon Resonance of Colloidal Au modified Gold Films 54 1 2 118 124 1999 . Finally the PEMS was dipped in a 400 nM anti antibody Kirkegaard Perry Laboratory Gaithersburg Md. in a phosphate buffered saline PBS solution Sigma St. Louis Mo. . The heat deactivated was obtained from Kirkegaard Perry Laboratory at Gaithersburg Md.

The PEMS had a 22 m thick PMN PT layer as the piezoelectric layer and an 8 m thick tin layer as the non piezoelectric layer and was 650 m in length and 900 m in width. The initial resonance spectrum of a PMN PT tin micro cantilever measured in air with an electrical impedance analyzer Agilent 4294A Agilent Palo Alto Calif. before insulation is shown as the solid line in . The initial resonance spectrum of the PMN PT tin micro cantilever exhibited three peaks at 57 226 and 347 kHz respectively. The first second and third resonance peak exhibited quality factors Q of about 100 130 and 100 respectively. Q is defined as the ratio of the resonance frequency to the width of the resonance peak at half the peak height.

The resonance spectra of the same cantilever in air after the first and second MTMS spin coating steps and following cross linking are shown in as the dashed line and dash dot dot line respectively. The MTMS coatings did not affect the in air resonance peak height or peak width and the in air Q values of all three resonance peaks remained close to their pre coating values within an error of about 5 Hz.

A 5 MHz quartz crystal microbalance QCM Stanford Research Systems Sunnyvale Calif. was used to quantify the thickness of each MTMS coating layer. The gold electrode of the QCM was first cleaned with a piranha solution for 30 minutes followed by rinsing with de ionized water and ethanol. The QCM was then soaked in a 40 mM solution of mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane MPS 97 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. in ethanol for 3 hours and rinsed with ethanol. The QCM was then immediately soaked in 0.01 M NaOH 99.99 Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. for 48 hours to facilitate cross linking. This procedure produced silanol groups on the QCM surface to mimic the hydroxyl groups that existed on the naturally oxidized tin surface. The QCM was subsequently rinsed with de ionized water.

Upon completion of the process the resonance frequency was recorded using an impedance analyzer. The results are shown in Table I.

After the MPS coating MTMS was coated on the MPS modified QCM surface. The resonance frequency after each coating was recorded and listed in Table I. From the resonance frequency shifts f the MTMS coating thickness was calculated using the following equation 

As can be seen from Table I with four QCM measurements the average thickness of the first and second MTMS coatings were 5.6 and 3.1 nm respectively. The wetting angle of a water droplet on the hydrophilic MPS modified QCM surface before the MTMS coatings was 37 . After two coatings of MTMS the surface became hydrophobic see and the wetting angle became 69 .

After MTMS coating the cantilever was then submerged in a phosphate buffer solution PBS Sigma St. Louis Mo. . The resonance spectrum of the MTMS coated cantilever in PBS is shown in as the solid line. Also shown is the spectrum of the same MTMS coated cantilever taken in air dotted line . As can be seen from the cantilever retained two resonance peaks in PBS although both the resonance peak intensities and peak frequencies were lowered as a result of both the effect of viscous damping and the mass of the liquid that moved with the cantilever W. Y. Shih X. Li H. Gu W. H. Shih and I. A. Aksay Simultaneous Liquid Viscosity and Density Determination Using Piezoelectric Unimorph Cantilevers 89 1497 2001 . Comparing the spectrum in PBS and that in air the first resonance peak disappeared in PBS the second peak shifted from 226 kHz in air with Q 127 to 187 kHz with Q 65 and the third peak shifted from 347 kHz with Q 95 to 263 kHz with a Q 43 indicating that the MTMS coatings electrically insulated the PMN PT tin micro cantilever and maintained a good Q value.

The stability of MTMS coating in PBS is shown in and . shows the resonance frequency of the third peak of a MTMS coated cantilever in PBS versus time and the resonance spectra of the cantilever shown in at t 80 min dashed dotted line and 180 min solid line . As can be seen from the resonance frequency remained stable with a standard deviation of about 75 Hz for the three hours when the cantilever was monitored. The spectra shown in indicated that the resonance peak height was also stable. These results indicated that the MTMS coated cantilever can be used for detection in PBS as long as the detected frequency shift was larger than the standard deviation. As can be seen both the resonance frequency and resonance peak shape of the MTMS insulated PMN PT Sn PEMS were stable over time indicating that the thin MTMS coating layer can indeed provide the necessary electrical insulation of the PEMS in water detection applications.

For detection the antibody immobilized cantilever was immersed in a home built flow cell J. P. McGovern W. Y. Shih and W. H. Shih Direct Detection of Anthraces Spores to be submitted to . with a peristaltic pump model 77120 62 Cole Parmer Master Flex Vernon Hills Ill. . The flow cell contained 1 ml of suspension. The detection was carried out with the cantilever s two faces tangential to the flow at a flow rate of 0.5 ml min for 30 min. After each detection the was released from the cantilever surface by flushing with a pH 2.5 glycine HCl solution.

In the resonance frequency shift versus time obtained with suspensions of various concentrations is plotted. As can be seen at 10 10 10 10cells ml resonance frequency shifts of 1600 1300 600 and 200 Hz at t 30 min respectively were observed. Clearly all resonance frequency shifts were well above the standard deviation of 75 Hz and the larger resonance frequency shift correlated with a higher concentration.

Similar MTMS insulation layers can be achieved on a noble metal surface by depositing a layer of MPS followed by two coats of MTMS. This insulation method was demonstrated with a PMN PT Sn PEMS with a gold electrode on the other side hereinafter PMN PT Sn Au . The PMN PT Sn PEMS was first soaked in an 40 mM MPS solution in ethanol followed by cross linking in a 0.05 M solution of NaOH pH 12 and vacuum drying at 35 C. overnight.

Two coats of MTMS were then applied using the procedures described above in Example 1 except that cross linking of the MTMS was carried out at pH 12 for 2 hours rather than at pH 7 overnight. The resonance spectra of the MTMS insulated PMN PT Sn Au PEMS in air and in PBS are shown in . As can be seen the in PBS resonance peak was sharp retaining a Q value of 55.

In the resonance frequency versus time of the MTMS insulated PMN PT Sn Au PEMS in PBS is plotted. As can be seen the resonance frequency of the MTMS insulated PMN PT Sn Au PEMS was stable in PBS over 8 hours with a standard deviation no more than 20 Hz. This indicates that the thin MTMS coating layer with a MPS bonding layer can indeed provide the necessary electrical insulation of both the gold and tin surfaces of the PEMS for in water detection applications.

Antibody immobilization on the MTMS surface was realized by coating the MTMS surface with a layer of MPS. The MPS layer was applied in a solution of 1 3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane 95 ethanol and 16 mM acetic acid pH 4.5 . The cantilever was then dried under vacuum overnight at 35 C. S. L. Beaucage Strategies in the Preparation of DNA Oligonucleotide Arrays for Diagnostic Applications 8 1213 1244 2001 . One fourth of the MPS surface was occupied by thiol groups which can be used for covalently immobilizing the receptors via a bi functional linker such as sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyecyclohexane 1 carboxylate Sulfo SMCC . The maleimide group of the bi functional link covalently links the thiol group on the MTMS and the sulfo NHS ester allows covalent bonding to the primary amine in the antibody.

3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane MPS can be used as both an insulating layer and a surface providing a functional group for the covalent immobilization of organic molecules. This example demonstrates the ability to insulate both the PZT glass and PMN PT metal cantilevers with MPS in buffered solutions and covalently attach synthetic peptides to the surface using a commercially available hetero bifunctional crosslinker.

A lead zirconate titanate PZT glass PEMS consisted of a PZT layer T105 H4E 602 Piezo System Cambridge Mass. 127 m thick 0.7 mm long 1.4 mm wide bonded to a 150 M thick glass layer Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. using a nonconductive epoxy Loctite Rocky Hill Conn. with a 2.2 mm long glass tip. The PZT glass PEMS is hereinafter referred to as PEMS A.

In this example the metal in the PMN PT cantilever was tin. However other metals such as nickel copper and titanium have been successfully insulated in this manner. The PMN PT Sn PEMS was 560 m long and 720 m wide consisting of an 8 m thick PMN PT layer bonded to a 6 m thick tin layer which will be referred to as PEMS B hereafter. PEMS B was constructed by first depositing a 30 nm thick nickel layer with a 15 30 nm thick chromium nickel bonding layer on one side of the PMN PT freestanding film by evaporation E gun Evaporator Semicore Equipment Livermore Calif. as the electrode. A 4 m thick tin layer was then electroplated on the nickel surface at a rate of 500 nm min as the non piezoelectric layer using a plating solution of tin sulfate titrated with sulfuric acid to a pH 2.5. A150 nm thick platinum layer was deposited by evaporation onto the other face of the film as the other electrode. Metal electrodes such as gold can also serve as electrodes and be insulated with MPS.

The PMN PT Sn bilayer was then embedded in wax and cut to the cantilever shape with a wire saw Princeton Scientific Precision Princeton N.J. . After attaching the wires to the top and bottom electrodes using conductive glue XCE 3104XL Emerson and Cuming Company Billerica Mass. the PMN PT Sn strips were glued to a glass substrate to form the microcantilevers. Optical micrographs of the PZT glass PEMS PEMS A and of the PMN PT PEMS PEMS B are shown in and respectively.

Prior to thee initial MPS deposition the PEMS were first cleaned in a diluted 1 100 in water piranha solution two parts of 98 sulfuric acid Fisher Fair Lawn N.J. with one part of 30 hydrogen peroxide FisherBiotech Fair Lawn N.J. at 20 C. and rinsed with DI water. For the PZT glass the cantilever was soaked in a 1 MPS solution in ethanol titrated to pH 4.5 with acetic acid and covered with paraffin film. Afterwards the cantilever was rinsed with DI water and dried overnight in a vacuum oven at 762 mm Hg at 70 C. It was determined that every 2 hours in solution results in a 7 nm thick coating of MPS on the surface. Therefore the time which the cantilever spent in the solution varied depending upon the desired coating thickness. In this case the total thickness of the coating of MPS on the cantilever surface was 21 nm.

In order to coat the PMN PT tin cantilever the metal electrodes were first coated with MPS using a 40 mM MPS solution in ethanol covered with paraffin film for 4 hours and rinsed by de ionized DI water. The electrodes were then soaked in a 0.01 M NaOH solution overnight for cross linking followed by soaking in DI water for 1 hour and overnight vacuum oven drying Model 1400E VWR International at 762 mm Hg to conclude the first MPS coating.

If the metal was copper instead of tin the procedure was changed to accommodate the copper. PMN PT Cu cantilevers were successfully insulated using a 0.1 mM MPS solution in ethanol for 30 minutes followed by rinsing and vacuum drying to provide an initial coating. Following the initial layer of MPS deposition the cantilever was soaked in a 1 MPS solution in ethanol titrated to pH 4.5 with acetic acid and covered with paraffin film. Again it was determined that every 2 hours spent in this solution produced a 7 nm thick coating of MPS. Shorter soaking times resulted in thinner layers while longer times can produce thicker layers. In the present case a coating thickness of 21 nm was used.

To examine the electrical insulation properties of the MPS coating the MPS coated PEMS were submerged in a phosphate buffered saline PBS solution. The resultant resonance spectra of the MPS coated PEMS A and those of the MPS coated PEMS B are shown in and respectively as phase angle versus frequency plots both in air dashed lines and in PBS solid lines . As can be seen from these figures both PEMS A and PEMS B retained two resonance peaks in PBS the first and the second flexural peaks in the case of PEMS A and the second and the third flexural peaks in the case of PEMS B. The reduced resonance peak intensities and resonance frequencies in PBS were respectively due to the viscous damping and the mass of the liquid that moved in phase with the PEMS. For the PEMS A the Q value was 33 in air and 41 in PBS as shown in and for PEMS B the Q value was 127 in air and 55 in PBS as shown in .

To assess how stable the spectra were in PBS the resonance peak frequencies of MPS coated PEMS in PBS were monitored for 3 hours. As an example shows the resonance frequency of PEMS B versus time over the 3 hour period. As can be seen from the resonance frequency of PEMS B remained stable with a standard deviation of about 14 Hz throughout the 3 hour period indicating that the resonance frequency of the PEMS could indeed be used as indicator to monitor detection in PBS.

In order to demonstrate covalent conjugation to the MPS surface sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate sulfo SMCC Pierce was used as the bi functional linker to crosslink the primary amine in a synthetic peptide single chain variable fragment to the sulfhydryl group of MPS. First the scFv was linked to sulfo SMCC by mixing 500 l of 600 nM scFv solution with 1 ml of 5 mM sulfo SMCC solution for 1 hour for the NHS ester in the sulfo SMCC to react with a primary amine of the scFv. Unreacted sulfo SMCC molecules were then removed by micro centrifugation at 4000 RPM with a 10 kD filter Millipore repeated four times. The MPS coated PEMS was then soaked in the sulfo SMCC linked scFv solution for 1 hour to immobilize the scFv on the MPS coating surface via the reaction of the maleimide of the sulfo SMCC with the sulfhydryl of the MPS.

To measure the quantity of protein on MPS coating the scFv immobilization procedure was carried out on a MPS coated 5 MHz QCM and a resonance frequency shift f 40 Hz was obtained which is shown along with the resonant frequency shift recorded for PEMS A PEMS B and a control PBS on MPS coated QCM in . The adsorption density of the SMCC linked scFv on the MPS coated QCM can be estimated using Sauerbrey equation f 2f G . With f 5 MHz and f 40 Hz at 30 minutes as can be seen from the Sauerbrey equation gave 7 10kg m. The mass detection sensitivity of the cantilever m f can be calculated using the equation m f A f where fand Awere the resonance frequency shift and the areas of the cantilever. Given that the surface area of PEMS A and that of PEMS B were 8 10and 7 10m respectively the total masses of the adsorbed SMCC linked scFv on PEMS A and PEMS B were 5.6 10and 5.0 10g respectively.

Layers of up to 300 nm in thickness can be deposited using the same procedure outlined in Example 4. These insulation layers have been shown to be successful at insulating the cantilever and capable of covalent immobilization. In order to demonstrate this a 300 nm thick coating of MPS was deposited on a PZT glass cantilever using the methods described above. A protein was then immobilized to the MPS layer. The protein used for this study was an engineered antibody fragment known as single chain variable fragment scFv synthesized by Greg Adams at the Fox Chase Cancer Center specific to Her2. Her2 is an epidermal growth factor receptor whose high concentrations have been linked to breast cancer.

Subsequently the unreacted sites were blocked with bovine serum albumin BSA and then the cantilever was used for detection of a protein Her2 in diluted serum 1 40 Serum PBS .

Immobilization of a single chain variable fragment was performed using the same procedure outlined in Example 4 for sulf SMCC conjugation. The cantilever was then rinsed with PBS and soaked in a 3 BSA for 50 minutes. Finally the cantilever was rinsed with a 1 BSA 0.1 Tween 20TH solution for 30 minutes. The response of the cantilever during this immobilization procedure is shown in . The figure shows a 450 Hz down shift for the scFv a 625 Hz down shift for the 3 BSA and a 320 Hz up shift during the 1 BSA 0.1 Tween 20TH rinse.

After immobilization the cantilever was used for five 35 minute experiments to detect a protein Her2 in a background of diluted serum 1 40 . depicts the results of these experiments. The figure shows that when Her2 was present in concentrations detectable by the cantilever there was a shift in the resonance frequency. The shift was 1580 Hz for 100 g ml 900 Hz for 17 g ml and 325 Hz for 100 ng ml. However when Her2 was present in concentrations too low to be detected the change in resonant frequency was identical to the control 1 40 serum . After each trial the cantilever was soaked in a 0.1 M solution of glycine titrated to a pH of 2.5 using HCl for 10 minutes in order to release the Her2 bound by the scFv. After treatment with the glycine wash the cantilever was rinsed with PBS for 3 minutes.

The above experiments were conducted over the period of 3 days. At the end of 3 days the cantilever was still functional and stable in PBS solution however the scFv had been degraded by the glycine solution. Each day the cantilever was soaked in PBS media diluted serum or the release buffer for a period of 7 hours. After each 7 hour experiment the cantilever was rinsed with PBS and then placed in a humidified chamber at 4 C. The stabilities of the cantilever in PBS on the first and final days are compared in . The peak was quite stable with a standard deviation of 13 for day 1 and 17 for day 3.

It is to be understood however that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of the invention the disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail especially in matters of shape size and arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.

