---

title: Multifunctional restrictive valve
abstract: A multifunctional restrictive valve for controlling the flow of water therethrough. The valve has a main body with a flow channel through the main body. The main body receives water upstream thereof through an inlet port and passes it out through an outlet port at the downstream end of the body. A flow control assembly is located in the flow channel and includes a temperature sensor/actuator acting on a piston to move, when the temperature sensor heats up the piston, to block water flow control ports. The flow control assembly also includes an override feature wherein the piston is located within a slide and the flow control ports are located in the slide. By moving the slide away from the piston when the piston is blocking the flow control ports, the temperature sensor and piston may be overridden and flow may resume through the main body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07878417&OS=07878417&RS=07878417
owner: 
number: 07878417
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070423
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 735 entitled TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED RESTRICTIVE VALVE filed Apr. 25 2006 the specification and drawings of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 154 404 filed Jun. 15 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 681 804 the specifications of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is generally related to restrictive valves and more specifically to controlled fluid flow restrictive valves with a temperature controlled cutoff port including a resettable release mechanism for overriding the temperature controlled flow cutoff port.

It is often necessary in both consumer and commercial contexts to wait for a water source to reach a suitable temperature prior to use. For example it is very common for an individual to turn on the hot water in the shower or at a sink and then wait for an extended length of time until the water is at the correct temperature.

Additionally vast amounts of water and energy are wasted each year due to the delay in receiving water at the correct temperature. That is as most individuals are reluctant to stand by the shower and continuously monitor the water temperature for many minutes a significant amount of hot water is simply lost down the drain. This increases both water costs as well as heating costs. Multiplied by the number of individuals that must engage in this practice on a daily basis the waste is significant.

The present invention achieves technical advantages as a temperature controlled valve with manual and hydraulic control features. One embodiment of the invention utilizes a piston adapted to restrict fluid flow through a channel as a function of fluid temperature. A paraffin wax sensor permits unimpeded fluid flow through the channel when the fluid temperature is below a first temperature reduces fluid flow through the channel at a second fluid temperature and again permits fluid flow through the channel when the fluid temperature falls below the first temperature. Advantageously the temperature controlled valve has a release mechanism typically manually controlled adapted to permit fluid flow through the channel independent of the fluid temperature. The release mechanism may be automatically reset as for example by a drop in hydraulic pressure in the valve.

Applicant s novel valve monitors the temperature of the shower water as it warms up. Once the shower water is at an adequate temperature for showering the valve pauses or restricts the flow of water in order to save hot water from going down the drain. When the user is ready for the shower they reactivate the valve by flipping a lever. This lever bypasses or overrides the temperature activated shutoff mechanism and allows the shower to return to full flow without regard to temperature. Once the user has finished showering they shut off the water in normal fashion for example at the mixing valve . The novel valve device detects the shower has been shut off through a drop in hydraulic pressure in the valve and automatically resets itself and arms the bypass for the next use.

Thus the device is designed to conserve water and energy by reducing the amount of hot water wasted during the time the person first turns on the water and when they actually enter the shower the warm up period . Applicant s novel valve accomplishes this by restricting or stopping the water flow from the shower once the water has reached a suitable showering temperature. However the user is allowed to resume the flow of water and actually ready to begin using it.

Applicant s valve achieves its novel functions and advantages through the use of a water temperature controlled mechanism including a piston temperature sensor and water flow ports for example in a slide that provides for shutoff when water temperature reaches above a predetermined temperature to avoid wasting hot water. However the user may manually engage an override which would allow warm water to flow through despite a high temperature condition. With the override engaged water temperature may be adjusted to suit the user s preference and warm water even above the temperature that shutoff the flow from the pre override position will continue to flow when the override is engaged or moved from a pre override position to an engaged or override position. The override is typically activated by the manual unlatching and the user needs not hold or maintain force on the handle to keep the assembly in the override position. Moreover Applicant s novel valve includes means to automatically reset the override to a disengaged or pre override position wherein the reset is responsive to water pressure drop as by mixing valve shutoff for example .

Referring now to there is shown an exploded view of a first embodiment of the present invention assembly. The valve assembly is comprised of the following components a main body rear a main body O ring a slide spring a slide a slide O ring a piston spring a piston two piston O rings a screen a body front an actuator a release pin a release pin spring and a pin retention ring . The valve assembly housing is comprised of the following components a housing first part a housing second part and a handle .

The main body O ring slide spring and the longer end of the slide are operably inserted into the wider threaded end of the body rear . The main body is comprised of body rear and body front . The piston spring a first piston O ring the piston and a second piston O ring are operably inserted into the wider threaded end of the body rear . The screen and the slide O ring are operably inserted into the wider end of the body front . The wider threaded end of the body rear is operably coupled to the wider end of the body front to enclose the aforementioned components. The temperature sensor and actuator is operably inserted into the narrower end of the body front . The release pin is operably inserted into body rear with the release pin spring . The housing first part and the housing second part are operably coupled to substantially enclose the valve assembly and the handle is operably coupled to the release pin . In one exemplary embodiment a handle screw is used to operably couple the handle with release pin .

Body rear further includes main body outlet port A release pin housing B spring retainer D and stop lip C. Slide further includes slide nose A slide head B slide head lower surface C hollow slide body D and slide ports E for controlling the flow of water through the valve assembly. Piston spring is dimensioned for receipt into hollow slide body D and to abut at a front end piston base B and at a second end spring retainer D. Piston includes piston head A piston base B piston stem C and piston head cavity D. Piston head A includes a piston head cavity D for receipt of actuator nose B there into. Body front includes body end shoulder A capable of receiving and stopping the motion of slide as urged in an upstream direction by slide spring . Body front also defines at an upstream end inlet port B. Body front is seen to have threaded walls for threaded engagement with body rear . Actuator is seen to have threaded walls A for threaded engagement with threaded walls C of body front . Actuator also has actuator nose B shaped to fit snug within piston head cavity D as seen in for example. also illustrates a channel E see also through piston head A which will allow a small amount of water to flow through the valve even when in the shutoff position illustrated in .

Left in the condition as illustrated in that is with override locked out or disengaged the only way water will resume flow is subsequent cooling allowing hose to retract which will allow piston spring to move piston and uncover slide ports E allowing flow to resume through the hollow section of slide body D and piston and out through outlet port A and body rear .

The user can adjust the water mix to the desired temperature above or below the cutoff temperature when in the bypass engaged condition illustrated in . When the user is through with showering the user will simply shut off the mixing valves which are typically upstream of valve assembly . At this point no low water flow slide spring will allow slide to move to the left or upstream. When slide head B abuts shoulder A release pin under the impetus of release pin spring will move to the lockout position as illustrated in thus automatically resetting the override to a pre override position. While the drop in hydraulic pressure allows the slide to move up to the pre override position other mechanical or electrical means may be used to achieve this function including direct mechanical engagement with the mixing valves or position pressure sensors combined with actuators to move the slide.

Whereas illustrates a pair of O rings fitted by compression to grooves in outer walls of piston it is seen with respect to that a piston gland O ring may be provided fitable to a groove on the inner walls of piston head A. Gland O ring will make contact with the actuator nose B as seen in . Thus it is seen the embodiment illustrated in has a piston with three O rings two on the outside and one gland O ring on the inside to contact the actuator. The two on the outside will be maintained in their groove under compression and will contact the inner walls of the slide as seen in A and B for example.

The use of the gland O ring is to help seal off water the use of the three O rings including the ones at the ends of the piston will help provide a cushion and a drag that will provide dampening and thus help reduce the likelihood from hammering that may occur.

Details of a release assembly whose function it is to release slide and therefore activate the bypass or override function as seen in are seen to include handle screw for engaging handle and extending therethrough to engage release pin threaded portion C of release pin . Pin cylinder cap having cap threaded area A screws into a threaded area on release pin housing B of body rear . With this it can be seen that the release pin spring will act on release pin land B. Thus in the valve assembly a release pin actuated by a handle the release pin having cam pin will always urge release pin towards an engaged or interference position as illustrated in . It is seen that release pin has a hole D in release pin arm A to receive cam pin shown in and would be perpendicular to release pin arm A and extend through the hole B. As seen in cam is insertable into release pin housing B and has boss A that will seat into the hole G slots in the base of release pin housing B. Central opening C in cam is dimensioned to allow arm A to extend through the cam and through opening E in the base of release pin housing B so as to be capable of reaching the position which locks out the override A and B .

On the other hand as seen in Applicants valve assembly may be downstream from mixing valve and in line with a delivery conduit . In it is seen that valve assembly is downstream of a mixing valve and upstream of a showerhead not shown .

The embodiments illustrated see for example show that Applicants temperature sensing mechanism for example actuator is advantageously but not necessarily placed in the most upstream position so a to better respond to temperature changes and avoid the heat sink effect of elements downstream of the actuator. Further it is seen that Applicants sensor is pushing the piston in a downstream direction as it expands that is pushing in a direction that is assisted by the water pressure moving the piston as illustrated in the drawings from left to right. Actuator is in one embodiment a wax actuator adapted to respond by expanding in a range of approximately 90 F. to 110 F. such as an actuator manufactured by Vernet as Model Nos. A034 and A092 P. Element both senses temperature changes and responds as by expanding or contracting to such change. The sensing and actuating functions may be achieved through separate elements however. Other temperature actuators sensors such as a temperature responsive memory wire a bimetallic element or other known and appropriate temperature responsive phase change materials or electromechanically operated temperature sensors may be used in conjunction with Applicants novel valve assembly such as those known in the art.

As seen with reference to the Figures the slide will typically have an upstream slide head area that is responsive to water pressure in urging the slide to a downstream direction. Likewise the piston typically would have an area exposed to water pressure upstream that would tend to move it to a downstream position. In Applicants novel valve such area on the slide here seen to be an annular ring is significantly larger than the piston head area.

While the grasping member to the release of the override feature is illustrated to be a handle the override feature may be actuated with a lanyard chain electronic button switch and optical or other sensor. Moreover a visual audible indicator see may be used to indicate that the shower is ready that is when the temperature actuator has restricted the flow of water . Indeed a visual or audible reminder may be used including a popout indicator or a constant or blinking light. Temperature or pressure actuated visible or audio indicators may also be used.

As is illustrated Applicants novel valve may be located in between the shower arm and the showerhead using matching threads. It may also be incorporated into the showerhead. Applicants novel valve assembly may be retrofitable to many shower arms by removing existing threaded showerheads and inserting in the space between the showerhead and the end of the shower arm Applicants novel valve and threading the showerhead to the downstream end after threading the valve into the end of the threaded end of the shower arm. The valve may also be built into the shower arm or shower stall tub walls see .

Although the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments this description is not meant to be construed in a limited sense. Various modifications of the disclosed embodiments as well as alternative embodiments of the inventions will become apparent to persons skilled in the art upon the reference to the description of the invention. It is therefore contemplated that the appended claims will cover such modifications that fall within the scope of the invention.

