---

title: Far-field sub-diffraction optical lenses (FaSDOL)
abstract: Far-field sub-diffraction optical lenses “FaSDOLs” comprise an anisotropic crystal having special dispersion characteristics such that it supports diffraction free propagation. An image with subwavelength features on the input surface is transferred through a propagation function to the output surface with effectively no, or minimal, loss in information. These special properties may be exploited in several ways, including but not limited to, magnification of an image at the input surface through the use an oblique cut at the output surface, magnification of an image at the input surface through use of a curved crystalline structure, and more generally near-field optical processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08116009&OS=08116009&RS=08116009
owner: The Trustees Of The University Of Pennsylvania
number: 08116009
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070516
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2007 011685 filed May 16 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 801 213 filed May 16 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention was made with U.S. Government support. The Government may have certain rights in the invention under the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR grant number FA9550 05 1 0442.

The disclosed invention is in the field of optics. The disclosed invention is also in the field of materials useful for optics. The disclosed invention is also in the field of sub diffraction optical microscopy.

The lens is the most fundamental component of the optical microscope which is an important instrument of scientific research in a variety of fields from biology to surface science to medicine. Until recently it has been believed that the resolution of any optical instrument built with conventional lenses is limited by the operating wavelength of the light. Such resolution limitations of conventional far field optics are well known and arise from the wave nature of light. As a result light cannot be focused beyond the so called Abbe Rayleigh limit using conventional optical lenses composed of a homogeneous isotropic medium E. A. Ash and G. Nicholls 237 510 513 1972 I. I. Smolyaninov J. Elliot A. V. Zayats C. V. Davis 94 057401 2005 .

New forms of optical microscopy have been devised to overcome the diffraction resolution limit. An idea by Synge in 1928 E. H. Synge 6 356 362 1928 led eventually to the realization of the first near field scanning optical microscope NSOM in 1972 E. A. Ash and G. Nicholls 237 510 513 1972 followed by various refinements and variations from the original technique. The common theme to these techniques has been based on collecting the field in very close proximity of the sample by scanning a fiber tip. These new techniques have resulted in much finer resolution beyond the diffraction limitation for an optical instrument and have led to the possibility of resolving details on the 10 100 nm scale.

One of the constraints of NSOM techniques is the need for scanning the sample point by point or region by region making the entire procedure relatively slow. Scanning in principle prevents NSOM from capturing fast dynamical processes taking place in the sample in real time. In a far field optical microscope however the light scattered or emitted by the sample may be collected by the instrument aperture all at once making the procedure fast and thus providing the possibility of observing temporally dynamic samples which is often needed in observing fast dynamic processes in biology and medicine for example . Far field optical microscopy however uses traditional diffraction limited optics. Accordingly there is an urgent need to develop optical microscopy systems and methods that exhibit both high resolution and wide sampling areas.

The general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Other aspects of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description of the invention as provided herein.

One aspect of the present invention provides far field sub diffraction optical lenses FaSDOL comprising a one dimensionally periodic layered metamaterial crystal comprising a plurality of alternating layers comprising layer and layer each of the layers characterized as comprising a layer thickness dand d and comprising effective permittivity and at a wavelength respectively wherein the metamaterial crystal is characterized as having a unit cell of thickness d wherein c d d and c d d c1 and c2 are coefficients wherein d is smaller than the wavelength and wherein and are characterized according to the relationship c c an input surface adjacently situated to at least one of the alternating layers of the metamaterial crystal the input surface capable of receiving an image from a specimen light source or both and the input surface capable of transmitting the image into the metamaterial crystal and an output surface adjacently situated to at least one of the alternating layers of the metamaterial crystal the output surface capable of transmitting a magnified image out from the metamaterial crystal.

Another aspect of the present invention provides methods of optically resolving features of an object smaller than the wavelength of light used to image the object comprising providing a FaSDOL that comprises a one dimensionally periodic layered metamaterial crystal comprising a plurality of alternating layers comprising layer and layer each of the layers characterized as comprising a layer thickness d and d and comprising an effective permittivity and at a wavelength respectively wherein the metamaterial crystal is characterized as having a unit cell of thickness d wherein c d d and c d d wherein d is smaller than the wavelength and wherein and are characterized according to the relationship c c an input surface adjacently situated to at least one of the alternating layers of the metamaterial crystal and an output surface adjacently situated to at least one of the alternating layers of the metamaterial crystal placing an object adjacent to the input surface of the FaSDOL transmitting an image from the object adjacent to the input surface into the metamaterial crystal of the FaSDOL and transmitting a magnified image out of the FaSDOL.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific devices methods conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention. Also as used in the specification including the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. When a range of values is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. All ranges are inclusive and combinable.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Further reference to values stated in ranges include each and every value within that range.

As employed above and throughout the disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings.

As used herein the reference numerals and are relative to one another and do not necessarily indicate order or preference.

The present invention incorporates the use of anisotropic crystals metamaterial crystals which are suitable for near field optical processing. In several embodiments metamaterial crystals are designed in such as way as to enable image magnification which can be readily detected using optical far field microscopy techniques. Accordingly many aspects of the present invention enable optical far field microscopy having sub diffraction resolution. In another embodiment metamaterial crystals may be used in a cross section independent waveguide. In cross section independent waveguides the light is confined to travel along the crystal axis so long as the walls of the waveguide do not intersect this path.

Far field sub diffraction optical lens of the present invention include metamaterial crystals that are designed to magnify sub diffraction images of objects that are illuminated with photons characterized as having a wavelength As used herein the term sub diffraction refers to the ability of the lenses of the present invention to resolve structures that are beyond the diffraction limitations of light waves using standard optical lenses. The diffraction limits of traditional optical lenses has historically been about half the wavelength of light used to illuminate the object i.e. 2. Accordingly sub diffraction refers to the ability of the far field sub diffraction optical lenses of the present invention to resolve object features smaller than 2.

Suitable metamaterials include one dimensionally periodic layered metamaterial crystals comprising a plurality of alternating layers. Two or more different types of alternating layers can be used denoted layer and layer . Each of the layers are characterized as comprising a layer thickness d and d and comprising an effective permittivity and at the wavelength respectively. The metamaterial crystals are also characterized as having a unit cell of thickness d wherein c d d and c d d wherein d is smaller than the wavelength . For the purposes of providing far field sub diffraction optical lenses the parameters and are characterized according to the relationship c c . Suitable values of and each have a real part in the range of from about 20 to 20.

At least one of the different types of material layers used in the metamaterial crystals is characterized as having a real effective permittivity less than zero and at least one has a real effective permittivity greater than zero at the wavelength . The layer characterized as having a real effective permittivity greater than zero at the wavelength can comprise a dielectric material a gain media or any combination thereof. Suitable dielectric materials include diamond silicon oxide silicon dioxide silicon nitride silicon oxynitride polymer glass a metal oxide or any combination thereof. Suitable dielectric materials have positive real dielectric values typically up to about 10 or even up to about 20. Such materials are readily applied as thin films using any of a variety of processes such as vapor deposition plasma deposition sputtering and the like.

Gain media may or may not be required. Gain media is useful in cases where optical gain an increase in amplification is desired. Suitable gain media comprises neodymium doped yttrium aluminum garnet ruby aluminum gallium arsenide AlGa 1 x As III V semiconductors and their compounds gallium arsenide gallium phosphide indium gallium arsenide gallium nitride indium phosphide gallium indium phosphide or any combination thereof. Such materials are readily applied as thin films using any of a variety of processes such as vapor deposition plasma deposition sputtering and the like.

The layers characterized as having a real effective permittivity less than zero at the wavelength typically comprises a plasmonic material. Suitable plasmonic materials include one or more metals such as copper silver gold aluminum or any combination thereof and or Silicon Carbide in the mid infrared regime. Such materials are readily applied as thin films using any of a variety of processes such as vapor deposition plasma deposition sputtering and the like.

The unit cell thickness d is usually equal to the sum of the thicknesses of the layer and layer when only dielectric layers and plasmonic layers are alternately built up to provide the metamaterial crystals i.e. d d d. Suitable values for dand dare each typically in the range of from about 4 nm to about 10 and more typically in the range of from about 6 nm to about 100 nm. Smallest values conceivable for the thicknesses of the layers could be about one atomic layer thick or as small as about 0.2 nm but is practically kept at least about 4 nm. Layers that are too thick are limited by their usability at a particular wavelength and magnification. If other layers are present such as a gain layer of thickness d then the unit cell will include the gain layer and the unit cell thickness d will be approximately the sum of the thicknesses of layer layer and any additional layers such as a gain layer e.g. d d d d. The unit cell thickness d is suitably smaller than . Typically d is smaller than about 120 nm or even about 60 nm or even about 30 nm. In embodiments composed of alternating layers and the values of cand cwill be in the range of from about 0.05 to about 0.95 wherein c c 1.

Suitable metamaterial crystals comprise up to about 10 or up to about 20 or up to about 50 or up to about 100 or up to about 300 or up to about 1000 or up to about 10 000 or up to about 100 000 or even up to about one million alternating layers. The alternating layers can be fashioned using a suitable serial process in which thin films are alternately deposited one adjacent a previous one. Common thin film processes done serially are desirably kept to fewer than about 300 layers for reasons of economy. Less common thin film generation processes can also be used to prepare metamaterial crystals examples being pH self oscillation layer by layer chemical deposition self assembly or any combination thereof.

The lenses of the present invention include an input surface adjacently situated to at least one of the alternating layers of the metamaterial crystal the input surface capable of receiving an image from a specimen light source or both the input surface capable of transmitting the image into the metamaterial crystal.

The lenses of the present invention also include an output surface adjacently situated to at least one of the alternating layers of the metamaterial crystal the output surface capable of transmitting a magnified image out from the metamaterial crystal. The output surface and the input surface can be characterized as being spatially distinct that is they do not occupy the same region in space.

Some embodiments of the far field sub diffraction optical lens of the present invention comprise input surfaces that are planar. As used herein the term planar refers to plan surfaces that extend outwards and do not necessarily fold in on themselves or are not curved. An illustration of an embodiment of a far field sub diffraction optical lens having a planar input surface is provided in as described further below. Accordingly the output surface of a suitable metamaterial can as a result be a planar surface disposed at an angle relative to the input surface wherein is not zero. Here the output surface can be disposed at an angle relative to the input surface wherein the magnified image at the output surface is about a factor cos larger than the image at the input surface. In these embodiments the absolute value of the factor cos is greater than 1 to ensure magnification of the input image. Typically the absolute value of the factor cos is less than about d. More suitably the absolute value of the factor cos is less than about 5 or even less than about 2. In embodiments where the output surface and the input surfaces are planar but not parallel the output surface and the input surface may intersect along a line or they may be connected by a plane. Any of a variety of geometries are possible.

Some embodiments of the present invention are characterized using input surfaces that are curved metamaterial crystals that containing curved layers or any combination thereof. Illustrations of a an embodiment of a far field sub diffraction optical lens having a curved layers is provided in as described further below. In contrast to the planar metamaterial crystals described as having an oblique cut which transverses the crystal planes in the curved geometry however the crystal itself is bent or curved. Accordingly the far field sub diffraction optical lenses may also comprise curved output surfaces. The curvature of the output surface can be represented as a dilation increase in magnitude of area and a translation of the shape of the input surface. Accordingly the magnitude of the area of the output surface is greater than the magnitude of the area of the input surface. The magnitude of the area of the output surface can be at least about twice as large or five times larger or even ten times larger or even 20 times larger or even 50 times larger or even 100 times larger or even 200 times larger than the magnitude of the area of the input surface.

In embodiments where the input and output surfaces can be characterized as having a radius of curvature the radius of curvature of the output surface can be greater in magnitude than the radius of curvature of the input surface. Suitably the radius of curvature of the output surface is at least about twice as large or five times larger or even ten times larger or even 20 times larger or even 50 times larger or even 100 times larger or even 200 times larger than the magnitude of the radius of curvature of the input surface.

In curved metamaterials the radius of curvature can be up to about 100 nm or up to about 200 nm or up to about 500 nm or up to about 1 micron or up to about 2 microns or up to about 5 microns or up to about 10 microns or even up to about 20 microns. The radius of curvature of the input surface is typically at least about 4.

The input and output surfaces can also be characterized as having a plurality of radii of curvatures. An illustration of an embodiment of a far field sub diffraction optical lens having a plurality of radii of curvatures of input and output surfaces is provided in as described further below. Typically the input and output surfaces are characterized as having at least 3 at least 9 or even up to 10 up to 20 up to 50 up to 100 up to 1 000 up to 10 000 up to 100 000 or even up to one million radii of curvatures. Any of a variety of thin film processes can be serially applied as described hereinabove for the purposes of building up alternating curved layers of the metamaterial crystal material. Each of the curved surfaces can take on a variety of shapes but typically the shape of the input surface will correspond to the shape of the output surface to effect magnification. Typically the input and output surfaces are characterized as an array of spherical shells. In these embodiments each of the input surfaces can be characterized as having a radius of curvature as small as d the thickness of the unit cell of the metamaterial crystal. For use in imaging system for example light that propagates in free space can be measured with one pixel represented by an area as small as about 4. The surface area of a half sphere is 2 r. Accordingly the number of pixels is 2 r 4 . If is about 300 nm then about a 5 5 array of adjacent spherical shells would be suitable. In this regard the radius of curvature of the input surface can be as small as . An upper limit of about 20 microns for the radius of curvature is essentially limited by optical loss in the metamaterial layers and the desired magnification. In most n n arrays where n is small less than about 5 the center curved element of the array can function as a suitable far field sub diffraction optical lens of the present invention. The surrounding curved elements of the arrays are artifacts of the manufacturing process. A 9 9 array was used so that the growth of the layers does not close the opening to the center most sphere. Many lenses in parallel may further be provided for n n arrays of spherical adjoining shells for example where n is greater than about 9 or greater than 36 or even greater than about 100 or 500 or even 1000.

Far field sub diffraction optical lens systems can also be fashioned from a plurality of the far field sub diffraction optical lenses described herein. For example two or more FaSDOLs can be optically coupled for example the output surface of at least one of the far field sub diffraction optical lenses can be in optical communication with the input surface of at least one other far field sub diffraction optical lens.

Far field sub diffraction optical microscopes can also be constructed using the far field sub diffraction optical lens described herein. For example. the output plane of the far field sub diffraction optical lens can be in optical communication with one or more conventional optical lenses or detectors. In another example the output plane of two or more far field sub diffraction optical lenses can be in optical communication with one or more conventional optical lenses or detectors.

In the design and operation of the FaSDOLs and FaSDOL containing systems and microscopes of the present invention consideration for the operating wavelength is usually needed. The operating wavelength need not just be in the visible portion of the spectrum. For example can be in the ultraviolet and deep ultraviolet wavelengths shorter than about 400 nm. On the other hand near infrared infrared as well as far infrared wavelengths longer than about 800 nm can be chosen in certain applications too. Suitable values of the wavelength can be in the range of from about 100 nm to about 2000 nm or even in the range of from about 200 nm to about 1200 nm or even in the range of from about 400 nm to about 800 nm.

The FaSDOLs and FaSDOL containing systems and microscopes of the present invention can be used to optically resolve features of an object smaller than the wavelength of light used. Accordingly methods of optically resolving features of an object smaller than the wavelength of light used to image the object comprise the steps of providing a FaSDOL placing an object adjacent to said input surface of the FaSDOL transmitting an image from said object adjacent to the input surface into the metamaterial crystal of the FaSDOL and transmitting a magnified image out of the FaSDOL. In these methods of magnifying an object smaller than the wavelength of light at least a portion of the object adjacent to the input surface of the metamaterial crystal can be illuminated with a light source comprising a light wavelength .

Metamaterials. illustrates the basic structure of a non magnifying prior art one dimensionally periodic layered metamaterial crystal comprising a plurality of alternating layers denoted layer and layer . The structure of the crystal is shown in and the inset describes the various parameters as follows unit cell of the metamaterial crystal is composed of a first layer denoted of the unit cell a second layer denoted of the unit cell . The periodic structure of the metamaterial crystal is depicted as composed of alternating layers of material types and .

The unit cell of this periodic structure is formed by two thin slices with thicknesses dand d made of materials with differing permittivities and . The layer thickness is denoted d d d and two coefficients c and care defined as d cd and d cd so that dimensionless coefficients satisfy the relationship c c 1. In addition to and the two coefficients c and calso offer degrees of freedom the design of far field sub diffraction optical lenses and other embodiments as described further herein. This periodic structure is characteristically anisotropic and if the thickness of the unit cell d is small enough with respect of the operating wavelength the metamaterial crystal can be considered as an anisotropic metamaterials with effective permittivity tensor given by 

 For different purposes a similar structure has been considered in S. Anantha Ramakrishna J. B. Pendry M. C. K. Wiltshire W. J. Stewart 50 9 p 1419 2003 where interesting electromagnetic properties have been outlined. More general situations such as the case including unequal layer thicknesses and the case including anisotropic permeability and effective permittivity has also been analyzed in S. Feng and J. Elson Opt. Express 14 216 221 2006 and D. Schurig and D. R. Smith 7 162 2005 respectively where some interesting properties in the case of sign sign have been investigated in D. Schurig and D. R. Smith 7 162 2005 . With this condition the effective permittivity tensor becomes similar to that of an anisotropic plasma and thus provides similar propagation characteristics to that of an anisotropic plasma. One of the most striking phenomena occurring in wave propagation in such media is the R. K. Fisher and R. W. Gould 22 1093 1095 1969 K. G. Balmain A. A. E. Luttgen P. C. Kremer 1 1 146 2002 studied extensively by Balmain and his co workers K. G. Balmain A. A. E. Luttgen P. C. Kremer 1 1 146 2002 . This can be derived from the dispersion relation k k kfor a plane wave with wave vector k k kcircumflex over z in such media S. Anantha Ramakrishna J. B. Pendry M. C. K. Wiltshire W. J. Stewart 50 9 p 1419 2003 . 

In the k space this equation represents either an ellipse or a hyperbola depending on the signs of the effective permittivity tensor elements. When sign sign the dispersion relation represents a hyperbola with the asymptotes given by k square root over k. Owing to the hyperbolic shape of the equi frequency curves the high spatial frequency components of a field will propagate closer and closer to the direction given by the asymptotes of this hyperbola in a ray like fashion. This is illustrated in which depicts the hyperbolic dispersion relationship for wave propagation in a metamaterial crystal wherein line is the hyperbolic equi frequency curve and dashed line is the asymptote of the hyperbola. If the parameters c c and are chosen such that 0 the cone of resonance collapses into a single ray almost undistorted. In other words the field distribution in an arbitrary plane is transferred point by point by those parallel rays to any other arbitrary plane in general almost undistorted under the proper conditions on the effective permittivity tensor elements. This 0 feature is used as a design parameter in the far field sub diffraction optical lenses systems and imaging systems of the presently described invention.

As stated previously this structure is made of alternating layers of positive effective permittivity and negative effective permittivity materials. In the microwave regime artificial materials with negative permittivities have been realized through metallic inclusions in a dielectric matrix. In the optical regime many metals exhibit negative permittivity naturally. Such metals include copper silver and gold. Very thin layers 

An image of an object having a resolution smaller than the wavelength of the light illuminating the object is provided by magnifying the input image within the far field sub diffraction optical lens according to the present invention. Two distinct points of light separated by less than a wavelength are transferred from the input surface to the output surface and a method of recovering this image for additional processing using standard optical lenses or a suitable photodetector is provided. For example the present invention provides for magnification of the image in the metamaterial before the image exits the output surface and propagates into free space. Referring to for example there is provided a far field sub diffraction optical lens comprising a metamaterial crystal having a plurality of alternating layers with an input surface i.e. input plane and an output surface i.e. output plane suitable for magnifying an image here represented as two distinct point features of an object and separated by distance d . illustrates an embodiment of a far field sub diffraction optical lens of the present invention. illustrates an orientation of a system for conducting far field sub diffraction optical microscopy of the present invention. This system includes an input surface and an output surface of the far field sub diffraction optical lens of . A conventional lens which can be replaced by or include in addition to the lens a suitable photodetecting device such as a charge coupled device CCD not shown as is known in the art is also optically coupled to the output plane for collecting digital images of sub wavelength structures on objects. illustrate this magnifying setup which can be realized by obliquely cutting a metamaterial crystal. In these illustrations represents a first point source from an object not shown at input surface represents a second point source at the input surface represents an image of the first point source at the output surface represents an image of the second point source at the output surface. In this embodiment the output surface is made with an oblique angle not parallel to the input surface . Accordingly magnification arises from the area of the image or distance between the point features of the object or image at the output surface d that is larger than the area of the image or distance between point sources of the image at the input surface d .

For the embodiment described in case if the distance between two sources corresponding to in see below on the input surface is d under the conditions 0 and an essentially lossless crystal images will be transferred to the oblique output surface by means of two parallel rays and the image separation will appear to be d d cos on that surface. Since cos 

Properly designed and obliquely cut metamaterial crystals as described herein can modify the angular spectrum of an input field distribution. Such metamaterial crystals enable conventional far field microscopes and digital image collection devices to image the input spatial details with resolution higher than 2 square root over . For this consider that an x polarized transverse electromagnetic TEM wave is incident normally on the input surface of the crystal. The presence of an object adjacent to the input surface of the crystal will result in a certain field distribution that can be imaged by this system. Using the notation in a magnetic field distribution h x can be denoted at the input surface whose angular spectrum in given by tilde over h k . Similarly the field distribution and the angular spectrum can be denoted at the output surface as H x and tilde over H k respectively. The field distribution at the output surface can be written in terms of the angular spectrum on the input surface using the following expression 

Under the condition 0 the transmission coefficient is unity and the second exponential term in Eq. 2 also becomes unity. The angular spectrum at the output surface can then be described as 

These equations demonstrate that a suitable metamaterial crystal under the condition 0 and lossless materials is able to transfer the field from the input surface to the oblique output surface in principle without any distortion compressing the angular spectrum by a factor of cos or in other words magnifying the image by a factor of cos along the x axis. Magnification along the y axis can be achieved by having the output surface of one crystal as the input surface of a second crystal with a different output cut. Various combinations of two or more crystals with various magnify factors can be suitably combined to provide systems comprising a plurality of far field sub diffraction optical lenses.

The condition 0 may be achieved using perfectly lossless materials with permittivities related by 4 In other words one of the materials has an effective permittivity with a negative real part which can be found for instance in many noble metals e.g. Ag and Au as plasmonic media below their plasma frequency E. D. Palik Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1991 . However due to typical material losses the ideal condition 0 can only be approximately met. This in turn leads to broadening and attenuation of the rays propagating from the input to the output surfaces in the crystal. While satisfying the condition 4 this effect can in part be reduced by decreasing the thickness of the layers made of the material with higher losses. The rays that travel a longer distance are more attenuated but this effect can be compensated through a non uniform illumination of the input surface.

The far field sub diffraction optical lens illustrated in was analyzed using finite element method simulations. Referring to respectively there are presented finite element method FEM simulations using the software package FEMLAB comparing the ideal lossless structure as an effective medium with a lossy structure as an effective medium . The lossy structure of the metamaterial simulated in incorporates a plasmonic material that is silver illuminated at 633 nm 18 i0.5 and a glass dielectric 2.2 . In these simulations an anisotropic crystal with effective permittivity tensor is given in Eq. 1 with 18 i0.5 2.2 c 0.11 and c 0.89. In the lossy embodiment of the two sources are illuminated unequally with an amplitude ratio of 1 2.1 in order to compensate for the attenuation the longer ray suffers. The finite element method simulations of a 2 D lossless and a lossy crystal and respectively with an oblique cut and respectively are shown. The two light sources at the input surface and respectively and their images and respectively at the output surface and respectively are simulated. The effects of the material loss in broadening and in attenuation of the rays are evident in .

Referring to there is provided a finite element method simulation of a far field sub diffraction optical lens of the present invention comprising 2 D cylindrical geometry with alternating layers of plasmonic metal and dielectric materials. In this figure is the radius of the inner curved surface of the metamaterial crystal is the radius of the outer curved surface and refers to the layer thickness. In this embodiment silver and diamond are incorporated as the alternating shell layers. The operating wavelength used in this embodiment is within the range of blue light 412 nm . At that frequency the permittivity of silver is 5.08 i0.226 and the permittivity of diamond is 5.08. The inner radius is 4 100 nm and the outer radius is 5 4 500 nm and the layer thickness is 32 15 nm.

The performance of the embodiment in was simulated with a finite element method commercial code FEMLAB . provide the results of a finite element method simulation of the input and output power flow distribution respectively of the 2 D cylindrical geometry with alternating layers of silver and diamond provided in . Comparing the input surface field to the output surface field this cylindrical configuration provides a 5 near field magnification and an output power of about P P 30. Even without any attempt to compensate for losses in the silver and diamond materials this cylindrical far field sub diffraction optical lens is capable of providing a useful 5 near field magnification. This 5 magnification allows to image in far field details in the order of 10 as opposed to the 2 conventional limit.

A variety of nanoscale and microscale materials processing techniques such as sputtering and vapor deposition techniques can be utilized to prepare the far field sub diffraction optical lenses of the present invention. Structures present additional complications in fabrication as the layers are uniformly applied to a curved surface. While deposition techniques that use point sources such as evaporation and molecular beam epitaxy could possibly be used sputter coating techniques for depositing well controlled layers of materials can be readily used. For example silver and diamond can be readily sputter coated in thin layers. Sputtering techniques are particularly preferred for applying thin layers of materials of controlled thickness on the tens of nanometers scale to curved surfaces. An example of a fabrication process giving rise to a suitable far field sub diffraction optical lens having a plurality of curved input and output surfaces is described next.

Referring to there is provided an example of curved FaSDOL lens suitable for use in an inverted optical microscope. The input and output surfaces of this FaSDOL are depicted as a 3 3 array of adjacent spherical shells. The structures shown in are as follows is an object to be observed is an image of the object is a suitable substrate upon which the FaSDOL is fabricated such as a silicon wafer is an array of 3 3 spherical cavities is a layered medium making up the FaSDOL and is the optical path to suitable far field optics digital imaging capture or both. In this figure the curved FaSDOL lens is depicted in the application of imaging a cellular surface. Here the FaSDOL lens can represent the first optical element in an otherwise normal inverted microscope operating in transmission mode. The FaSDOL lens is depicted with an object positioned adjacent to an inner curved surface of the FaSDOL lens. The image of the surface of the object adjacent to the input surface is magnified on the output surface. The object such as a cell can be illuminated from above resulting in the appearance of the image of the surface of the cell on the underside of the layered structure at . Because of the curved shape of the layered structure the features on the image of the cell on the underside are larger than the actual features on the cell surface resulting in magnification. Rather than imaging the cell itself the conventional objective lens focuses on the underside of the FaSDOL lens.

The FaSDOL lens depicted in can be fabricated using standard microfabrication techniques. One possible fabrication process is as follows.

In this and related processes for preparing FaSDOLs having curved input and output surfaces the outer radius can be about 500 nm and the inner radius can be about 100 nm giving rise to a magnification of 5 . Using blue light with a wavelength of 412 nm and assuming that the inverted microscope can resolve at the theoretical limit of 2 this particular FaSDOL lens provide the ability to resolve down to about 40 nm.

In the case of FaSDOLs comprising planar input and output surfaces such as those described above if the condition 0 is not met the light emitted by a point at the input surface propagates along the surface of a cone at an angle equal to arctan square root over with respect to the axis of stratification as shown in which illustrates a magnifying setup using a vertically oriented output surface i.e. the output planar surface forms a 90 degree angle relative to the input planar surface . In order to have magnification in this case the output surface generally forms an angle 

Referring to there is depicted a finite element simulation of alternating plasmonic and gain media layers exhibiting diffractionless propagation while amplifying a light signal. In this figure the labeled structures are as follows is the FaSDOL structure is the input surface is the output surface and represents a propagating amplified signal. Light intensity increases relatively with color from blue lower intensity to yellow medium intensity to red higher intensity . Materials that exhibit negative permittivities tend also to be lossy which limits the distance a wave can propagate through the FaSDOL before the attenuation becomes so great that it is unusable. However the losses can be compensated through continual amplification through use of a gain medium. Gain media are known to those in the art and have been successfully used in semiconductor optical amplifiers. A finite element analysis simulation is depicted in where the dielectric layers exhibit slightly more gain than the losses presented by the plasmonic layers. Here it can be seen that the signal actually becomes stronger as it traverses the FaSDOL from the input surface to the output surface .

