---

title: Rewarding independent influencers
abstract: A method embodiment includes receiving data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a first network-available electronic content or a second network-available electronic content. Also, receiving data indicative of an involvement with respect to possible matters of interest between the person and a third-party. The involvement being independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third-party that is included in the first network-available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content. Further, assessing a behavioral influence by the first network-available electronic content and/or the second network-available electronic content on the indicated involvement with respect to the possible matters of interest between the person and a third-party. Also, facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first network-available electronic content and/or an owner of the second network-available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08712837&OS=08712837&RS=08712837
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08712837
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070727
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s .

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 799 460 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Apr. 30 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 799 461 entitled DETERMINING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Apr. 30 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 349 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Jun. 7 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 402 entitled DETERMINING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Jun. 8 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 551 entitled REPORTING INFLUENCE ON A PERSON BY NETWORK AVAILABLE CONTENT naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Jun. 29 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 582 entitled COLLECTING INFLUENCE INFORMATION naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Jun. 29 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 580 entitled DETERMINING AN INFLUENCE ON A PERSON BY WEB PAGES naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Jun. 29 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003 available at http www.uspto.gov web offices com sol og 2003 week11 patbene.htm. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides method of reporting influence. The method includes receiving data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content or a second network available electronic content. The method also includes receiving data indicative of an involvement with respect to possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The involvement being independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in the first network available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content. The method further includes assessing a behavioral influence by the first network available electronic content and or the second network available electronic content on the indicated involvement with respect to the possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The method also includes facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first network available electronic content and or an owner of the second network available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence. The method may include receiving data indicative of an affinity of the person. The method may include maintaining informational data corresponding to the assessed behavioral influence. The method may include providing access to informational data corresponding to the assessed behavioral influence. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method for reporting influence. The method includes receiving data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content or a second network available electronic content. The method also include receiving data indicative of an involvement with respect to possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The data indicative of an involvement includes a first data indicative of an involvement independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in the first network available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content and a second data indicative of an involvement caused by the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in the first network available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content. The method further includes assessing in response to the first data indicative of an involvement a behavioral influence by the first network available electronic content and or the second network available electronic content. The method also includes facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first network available electronic content and or an owner of the second network available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform an influence evaluation process in a computing device. The process includes receiving data indicative of a person accessing a network available electronic content. The process also includes receiving data indicative of an involvement with respect to a possible matter of interest between the person and the third party. The process further includes assessing a behavioral influence with respect to the possible matter of interest between the person and the third party exerted by the network available electronic content. The assessed behavioral influence is unresponsive to any involvement between the person and the third party that is a consequence of the person activating a link to the third party included in the network available electronic content. The process also includes outputting the assessed behavioral influence in a form usable by a process facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the network available electronic content. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a system. The system includes an activity monitoring module operable to receive data indicative of a person accessing a network available electronic content. The system also includes an interaction monitoring module operable to receive data indicative of an involvement with respect to a possible matter of interest between the person and a third party. The system further includes an evaluation module operable to assess a behavioral influence with respect to the possible matter of interest between the person and the third party exerted by the network available electronic content. The behavioral assessment is not responsive to any involvement between the person and the third party that is a consequence of the person activating a link to the third party included in the network available electronic content. The system also includes a compensation module operable to facilitate delivery of a benefit to an owner of the network available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence. The system may include a retention module operable to maintain informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. The system may include a data management module operable to provide access to informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. The system may include a computing device operable to communicate with a network. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for receiving data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content or a second network available electronic content. The device also includes means for receiving data indicative of an involvement with respect to possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The involvement is independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in the first network available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content. The device further includes means for assessing a behavioral influence by the first network available electronic content and or the second network available electronic content on the indicated involvement with respect to the possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The device also includes means for facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first network available electronic content and or an owner of the second network available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence. The device may include means for receiving data indicative of an affinity of the person. The device may include means for saving informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. The device may include means for providing access to informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and is coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications link between the computers may be used.

In a configuration the server typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . System memory typically includes operating system platform and one or more program modules running on operating system. In addition to the program modules a server application may also be running on the operating system. The server application may be operable to deliver electronic content and or files to applications via a protocol and may include and or interact with other computing devices application servers applications and application interfaces APIs residing in other applications. For example the server application may include a Web server operable to deliver Web pages and or electronic content to Web browser applications via HTTP protocols.

The server may have additional features or functionality. For example server may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable as illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. The server may include input device s and output device s . The server also contains communication connections that allow the device to communicate with and perform a service associated with a network including communicating with other servers and or with other computing device illustrated as other computing device s . Communication connections are one example of communication media.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The exemplary environment also includes servers illustrated as a content server . In an embodiment the content server is operable to provide electronic content illustrated as eContent and or eContent to one or more client machines. In another embodiment the content server includes the server illustrated in . In a further embodiment the content server s includes a node in P2P and or a C2C network. The node may include the thin computing device illustrated in and or the computing device illustrated in . The exemplary environment also includes a third party sites illustrated as a third party site . The third party site may include a merchant site such as amazon.com for books a manufacturer site such as subaru.com for automobiles a religious institution such as catholic.org and or hinduism.com and or a political site such as rnc.org and or democrats.org. The exemplary environment also includes search engine sites illustrated as a search engine site . The search engine site may include a general search engine site such as google.com and or live.com. In another embodiment the search engine site may include a topical search site such as HONMedhunt and or FindLaw.com.

The exemplary environment may also include an influence determinator machine an intermediary machine and or a page tag information processor . Each of these machines may be operable to receive data and or information gathered by at least one of the client machine the content server the third party site and or the network intermediary and to produce an output useable in assessing an influence on a person using the client machine by a content of the content server.

In an embodiment the exemplary operational flow may be performed at a computing device. For example the exemplary operational flow may be performed by at least one of the client machine the content server the third party site the search engine site the influence determinator machine the intermediary machine and or the page tag information processor of . In an embodiment at least a portion of the data may be received from a platform or an application running on the platform of the device performing the operational flow . In an embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the content server using data received from the client machine and received from an application running on a platform of the content server. In another embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the content server using data from both the client machine and the third party site. In a further embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the influence determinator machine using data received from at least one of the client machine the content server the search engine site and or the third party site. In another embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the search engine platform using data received from at least one of the client machine the content server and or the third party site.

In an alternative embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes receiving data indicative of an affinity of the person . In another embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes outputting the assessed influence in a form usable by a process facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first electronic content or an owner of the second electronic content . In a further embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes maintaining informational data corresponding to the assessed influence . In another embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes providing access to maintained informational data corresponding to the assessed influence .

In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes computer storage medium . In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes communication medium .

In another embodiment the computing device includes a processor a storage media and or a display . In a further embodiment the computing device further includes a retention module operable to maintain informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. In another embodiment the computing device further includes an output module operable to provide access to informational data corresponding to the assessed influence.

In an embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network further includes a computing device responsive to human input and operable to display human perceivable content and communicate with a network. In another embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network includes a computing device operable to provide electronic content to a network. In a further embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network further includes an intermediate computing device operable to communicate with a network.

In an embodiment the activity monitoring module further includes an activity monitoring module operable to receive a first data indicative of a first person accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content or a second network available electronic content. The activity monitoring module is further operable to receive a second data indicative of a second person accessing at least one of the first network available electronic content or the second network available electronic content. In another embodiment the interaction monitoring module further includes an interaction monitoring module not shown operable to operable to receive data indicative of an involvement between the first person and the third party and or the second person and the third party. In another embodiment the evaluation module further includes an evaluation module not shown operable to assess an influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the first person and the third party and or on the involvement between the second person and the third party.

In an embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network further includes a network intermediary device operable to communicate with a network. In another embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network further includes a computing device under a control of the third party and operable to communicate with a network.

In an embodiment the device further includes means for receiving data indicative of an affinity of the person. In another embodiment the device further includes means for saving informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. In a further embodiment the device includes means for providing access to informational data corresponding to the assessed influence.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that some list items may also function as other list items. In the above listed types of media for example some instances of interface s may include conduits or may also function as storage devices that are also holding devices . Transmitters may likewise include input devices or bidirectional user interfaces in many implementations of interface s . Each such listed term should not be narrowed by any implication from other terms in the same list but should instead be understood in its broadest reasonable interpretation as understood by those skilled in the art.

Several variants described herein refer to device detectable implementations such as one or more instances of computer readable code transistor or latch connectivity layouts or other geometric expressions of logical elements firmware or software expressions of transfer functions implementing computational specifications digital expressions of truth tables or the like. Such instances can in some implementations include source code or other human readable portions. Alternatively or additionally functions of implementations described herein may constitute one or more device detectable implementation outputs such as decisions manifestations side effects results coding or other expressions displayable images data files data associations statistical correlations streaming signals intensity levels frequencies or other measurable attributes packets or other encoded expressions or the like from invoking or monitoring the implementation as described herein.

In an embodiment the data gathering operation described above includes receiving at least one class of data. This text describes the data gathering operation by using the word or in accord with a convention analogous to when at least one of A B or C etc. is used. In general such a convention is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. an operational flow receiving at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to an operational flow receiving A alone receiving B alone receiving C alone receiving both A and B receiving both A and C receiving both B and C receiving A B and C and so on . For example in another embodiment the data gathering operation receives a single instance of content site data. In a further embodiment the data gathering operation receives content site data and beneficiary site data. In another operation the data gathering operation receives two instances of computing device data and one instance of search engine site data.

The operational flow includes an influence evaluation operation . The influence evaluation operation determines a correlation between a the communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and b the communication between the computing device responsive to a human user input and the beneficiary site. The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

In an embodiment the exemplary operational flow may be performed at a computing device. In another embodiment may be used to illustrate an environment in which the exemplary operational flow may be implemented. For example the exemplary operational flow may be performed by at least one of the client machine a content site illustrated as the content server a beneficiary site illustrated as the third party site the search engine site the influence determinator machine the intermediary machine and or the page tag information processor of . In yet another embodiment at least a portion of the data may be outputted by a platform and or an application running on the platform of the device performing the operational flow . In a further embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the content server using data outputted by the client machine and outputted by an application running on a platform of the content server. In another embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the content server using data from both the client machine and the third party site. In a further embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the influence determinator machine using data outputted by at least one of the client machine the content server the search engine site and or the third party site. In another embodiment the operational flow may be performed by the search engine platform using data outputted by at least one of the client machine the content server and or the third party site. In an embodiment an instance of data may be received directly or indirectly from a machine that gathered it. For example if the operational flow is being performed at the influence determinator machine the computing device data may be received by the content server which then provides the computing device data to the influence determinator machine.

In an embodiment of the operational flow the platform of the content site and the platform of the computing device include an at least substantially common platform. For example a platform may include an operating system architecture such as Microsoft Windows UNIX LINUX Solaris and or Mac OS X. By way further example a platform may include an application and or a family of applications. A family of applications may include Word Excel Outlook Internet Explorer Live Search and or Visio. Another family of applications may include the Google search engine Gmail Google Calendar and or Google Docs Spreadsheets. A further family of applications may include a general family of applications and or a specialized family of applications. In another example a platform may include a hardware platform. In a further example a hardware platform may include a gaming platform and or a particular chip architecture. In another example a hardware platform may include a platform of combination of a switch a router and or a sniffer.

In another embodiment of the operational flow the platform of the content site and the platform of the computing device include an at least substantially common platform. In a further embodiment the platform of the content site and the platform of the computing device include an at least substantially common platform family.

In an embodiment of the operational flow the platform of the content site and the platform of the search engine site include an at least substantially common platform. In another embodiment the platform of the content site and the platform of the search engine site include an at least substantially common platform family. In a further embodiment the platform of the content site and the platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common platform. In another embodiment the platform of the content site and the platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common platform family. In a further embodiment the platform of the computing device and the platform of the search engine site include an at least substantially common platform. In another embodiment the platform of the computing device and the platform of the search engine site include an at least substantially common platform family. In a further embodiment the platform of the computing device and the platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common platform.

In an embodiment of the operational flow the platform of the computing device and the platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common platform family. In another embodiment the platform of the search engine site and the platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common platform. In a further embodiment the platform of the search engine site and the platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common platform family. In another embodiment the process running on a platform of the content site and the process running on a platform of the computing device include an at least substantially common process. In a further embodiment the process running on a platform of the content site and the process running on a platform of the computing device include at least substantially coordinating processes. In another embodiment the process running on a platform of the content site and the process running on a platform of the search engine site include an at least substantially common process. In a further embodiment the process running on a platform of the content site and the process running on a platform of the search engine site include at least substantially coordinating processes. In another embodiment the process running on a platform of the content site and the process running on a platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common process.

In an embodiment of the operational flow the process running on a platform of the content site and the process running on a platform of the beneficiary site include at least substantially coordinating processes. In another embodiment the process running on a platform of the computing device and the process running on a platform of the search engine site include an at least substantially common process. In a further embodiment the process running on a platform of the computing device and the process running on a platform of the search engine site include at least substantially coordinating processes. In another embodiment the process running on a platform of the computing device and the process running on a platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common process. In a further embodiment the process running on a platform of the computing device and the process running on a platform of the beneficiary site include at least substantially coordinating processes.

In an embodiment of the operational flow the process running on a platform of the search engine site and the process running on a platform of the beneficiary site include an at least substantially common process. In another embodiment the process running on a platform of the search engine site and the process running on a platform of the beneficiary site include at least substantially coordinating processes.

Referring now also to the context of in some embodiments flow may be performed by one or more instances of server remote from primary system but operable to cause output device s to receive and present results via linkage . Alternatively or additionally any included instances of device detectable data may be borne by one or more conduits holding devices integrated circuits or the like as described herein. Such data may optionally be configured for transmission by a semiconductor chip or other embodiment of integrated circuit that contains or is otherwise operatively coupled with one or more antennas in a radio frequency identification tag for example .

In some variants flow may be implemented entirely within primary system optionally as a stand alone system. Operation may be implemented by configuring component as logic for receiving content site data gathered through a process running on a platform of a content site and indicative of communication between the content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input for example such as by including special purpose instruction sequences or special purpose circuit designs for this function. Output data from such a component in primary system or network may be recorded by configuring available portions of storage device s . Alternatively or additionally such specific output data may be transmitted by configuring transistors relays or other conduits of primary system to transfer it to component for example.

Alternatively or additionally one or more instances of component may perform operation via implementation as logic for receiving computing device data gathered through a process running on a platform of the computing device and indicative of communication between the computing device responsive to a human user input and at least one of the content site a search engine site and or a beneficiary site for example. Implementation output data from such a component in primary system or network may be sent in some form to component for example.

Alternatively or additionally one or more instances of component may perform operation via implementation as logic for receiving beneficiary site data gathered through a process running on a platform of the beneficiary site and indicative of communication between the computing device responsive to a human user input and the beneficiary site for example. Implementation output data from such a component in primary system or network may be routed to component for example.

Alternatively or additionally one or more instances of component may perform operation via implementation as logic for receiving search engine site data gathered through a process running on a platform of the search engine site and indicative of communication between the search engine site and the computing device responsive to a human user input for example. Implementation output data from such a component in primary system or network may be routed directly or indirectly to component for example.

At some time after such data is received as described above to one or more of whichever components may have been included in implementation one or more instances of component may act upon it. In some variants one or more of optional components may be omitted or ignored for example even in a context in which an included one or more of components can respectively detect one or more of items . Component may respond by performing operation for example if configured as logic for determining a correlation between a the communication between the content site and the computing device responsive to a human user input and b the communication between the computing device responsive to a human user input and the beneficiary site. Output from now may optionally include other implementation output data as described herein. Such output may for example be processed as described herein recorded into available portions of storage device s or routed directly or indirectly through linkage . Each portion of implementation may likewise include one or more instances of software hardware or the like implementing logic that may be expressed in several respective forms as described herein or otherwise understood by those skilled in the art.

Referring again now to also in reference to the context of some instance of flow may likewise be implemented entirely within primary system in some variants. Operation may be implemented by configuring component as logic for receiving data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion for example such as by including special purpose instruction sequences or special purpose circuit designs for this function. Output data from such a component in primary system or network may be recorded into available portions of storage device s or sent to component for example. Component may perform operation via implementation as logic for receiving data indicative of an involvement between the person and a third party for example. Implementation output data from such a component in primary system or network may be recorded into available portions of storage device s or sent to component for example. Component may perform operation via implementation as logic for facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first electronic content or an owner of the second electronic content in response to an assessed influence by the first electronic content portion and or the second electronic content portion on the involvement between the person and the third party. Output from flow may likewise include other data as described herein. Each portion of implementation may likewise include one or more instances of software circuitry or the like implementing logic that may be expressed in several respective forms as described herein or otherwise understood by those skilled in the art.

In some embodiments output device may indicate an occurrence of flow concisely as a decision an evaluation an effect an hypothesis a probability a notification or some other useful technical result. For example such indicating may comprise such modes as showing signifying acknowledging updating explaining associating or the like in relation to any past or ongoing performance of such actions upon the common item s as recited. Such indicating may also indicate one or more specifics about the occurrence the parties or device s involved a description of the method or performance modes used any sequencing or other temporal aspects involved indications of resources used location s of the occurrence implementation version indications or other update indicative information or any other such contextual information that may be worthwhile to provide at potential output destinations.

Concise indication may occur for example in a context in which at least some items of data are unavailable or unimportant or in which a recipient may understand or access portions of data without receiving a preemptive explanation of how it was obtained. By distilling output at an upstream stage which may comprise integrated circuit for example in some arrangements downstream stage media such as other elements of network for example may indicate occurrences of various methods described herein more effectively. Variants of flow for example may be enhanced by distillations described herein especially in bandwidth limited transmissions security encoded messages long distance transmissions complex images or compositions of matter bearing other such expressions.

In some variants a local implementation comprises a service operable for accessing a remote system running a remote implementation. In some embodiments such accessing may include one or more instances of establishing or permitting an interaction between the server and a local embodiment such that the local embodiment causes or uses another implementation or output of one or more herein described functions at the server. Functioning as a web browser remote terminal session or other remote activation or control device for example interface s may interact with one or more primary system users via input and output devices so as to manifest an implementation in primary system via an interaction with server for example running a secondary implementation of flow . Such local implementations may comprise a visual display supporting a local internet service to the remote server for example. Such a remote server may control or otherwise enable one or more instances of hardware or software operating the secondary implementation outside a system network or physical proximity of primary system . For a building implementing primary system for example remote devices may include those in other countries in orbit or in adjacent buildings. In some embodiments running an implementation may include invoking one or more instances of software hardware firmware or the like atypically constituted or adapted to facilitate methods or functions as described herein. For example primary system running an implementation of now may be a remote activation of a special purpose computer program resident on server via an internet browser session interaction through linkage mediated by input device and output device .

In some variants some or all of components may be borne in various data handling elements e.g. in one or more instances of storage devices in memories or volatile media passing through linkage with network or other conduits in one or more registers or data holding devices or the like. For example such processing or configuration may occur in response to user data or the like received at input device or may be presented at output device . Instances of input devices may optionally include one or more instances of cameras or other optical devices hand held systems or other portable systems keypads sensors or the like as described herein. Output device s may likewise include one or more instances of image projection modules touch screens wrist wearable systems or the like adapted to be worn while in use headphones and speakers eyewear liquid crystal displays LCDs actuators lasers organic or other light emitting diodes phosphorescent elements portions of hybrid input devices or the like.

A device detectable implementation of variants described herein with reference to flow for example may be divided into several components carried by one or more instances of active modules such as signal repeaters communication satellites servers processors routers or the like. For example in some embodiments component may be borne by an upstream module e.g. repeater or the like while or after component is borne in a downstream module e.g. another instance of repeater communication satellite server or the like . Such downstream modules may accept such bits or other portions of implementation or implementation sequentially for example such as by amplifying relaying storing checking or otherwise processing what was received actively. Sensors and other upstream modules may likewise accept raw data such as by measuring physical phenomena or accessing one or more databases.

In some embodiments a medium bearing data or other such event may be caused directly or indirectly by one or more instances of prior or contemporaneous measurements decisions transitions circumstances or other causal determinants. Any such event may likewise depend upon one or more other prior contemporaneous or potential determinants in various implementations as taught herein. In other words such events may occur in response to both preparatory earlier events and triggering contemporaneous events in some contexts. Output may result from more than one component of implementations or more than one operation of flow for example.

In some embodiments such integrated circuits may comprise transistors capacitors amplifiers latches converters or the like on a common substrate of a semiconductor material operable to perform computational tasks or other transformations. An integrated circuit may be application specific ASIC in that it is designed for a particular use rather than for general purpose use. An integrated circuit may likewise include one or more instances of memory circuits processors field programmable gate arrays FPGA s antennas or other components and may be referred to as a system on a chip SoC .

In some embodiments one or more instances of integrated circuits or other processors may be configured to perform auditory pattern recognition. In for example instances of the one or more input devices may include a microphone or the like operable to provide auditory samples in data . Some form or portion of such output may be provided remotely for example to one or more instances of neural networks or other configurations of remote processors operable to perform automatic or supervised speech recognition selective auditory data retention or transmission or other auditory pattern recognition upon the samples. Alternatively or additionally such sound related data may include annotative information relating thereto such as a capture time or other temporal indications capture location or other source information language or other content indications decibels or other measured quantities pointers to related data items or other associative indications or other data aggregations or distillations as described herein.

In some embodiments one or more instances of integrated circuits or other processors may be configured for optical image pattern recognition. In for example instances of lenses or other input devices may include optical sensors or the like operable to provide one or more of geometric hue or optical intensity information in data . Some form or portion of such output may be provided locally for example to one or more instances of optical character recognition software pattern recognition processing resources or other configurations of integrated circuits operable to perform automatic or supervised image recognition selective optical data retention or transmission or the like. Alternatively or additionally such image related data may include annotative information relating thereto such as a capture time or other temporal indications capture location or other source information language or other content indications pointers to related data items or other associative indications or other data aggregations or distillations as described herein.

In some embodiments one or more instances of integrated circuits or other processors may be configured to perform linguistic pattern recognition. In for example instances of input devices may include keys pointing devices microphones sensors reference data or the like operable to provide spoken written or other symbolic expressions in data . Some form or portion of such output may be provided locally for example to one or more instances of translation utilities compilers or other configurations of integrated circuits operable to perform automatic or supervised programming or other language recognition selective linguistic data retention or transmission or the like. Alternatively or additionally such language related data may include annotative information relating thereto such as a capture time or other temporal indications capture location or other source information language or other content indications pointers to related data items or other associative indications or other data classifications aggregations or distillations as described herein.

In some embodiments antennas or receivers may include a device that is the receiving end of a communication channel as described herein. For example such a receiver may gather a signal from a dedicated conduit or from the environment for subsequent processing and or retransmission. As a further example such antennas or other receivers may include one or more instances of wireless antennas radio antennas satellite antennas broadband receivers digital subscriber line DSL receivers modem receivers transceivers or configurations of two or more such devices for data reception as described herein or otherwise known.

In one variant two or more respective portions of output data may be sent from server through respective channels at various times one portion passing through repeater and another through router . Such channels may each bear a respective portion of a data aggregation or extraction a publication a comparative analysis or decision a record selection digital subscriber content statistics or other research information a resource status or potential allocation an evaluation an opportunity indication a test or computational result or another output of interest. Such distributed media may be implemented as an expedient or efficient mode of bearing such portions of output data to a common destination such as interface or holding device . Alternatively or additionally some such data may be transported by moving a medium carried on storage device for example so that only a small portion a purchase or other access authorization for example or a contingent or supplemental module is transferred via linkage .

In some embodiments one or more instances of signal repeaters may include a device or functional implementation that receives a signal and transmits some or all of the signal with one or more of an altered strength or frequency or with other modulation e.g. an optical electrical optical amplification device a radio signal amplifier or format converter a wireless signal amplifier or the like . A repeater may convert analog to digital signals or digital to analog signals for example or perform no conversion. Alternatively or additionally a repeater may reshape retime or otherwise reorder an output for transmission. A repeater may likewise introduce a frequency offset to an output signal such that the received and transmitted frequencies are different. A repeater also may include one or more instances of a relay a translator a transponder a transceiver an active hub a booster a noise attenuating filter or the like.

In some embodiments such communication satellite s may be configured to facilitate telecommunications while in a geosynchronous orbit a Molniya orbit a low earth orbit or the like. Alternatively or additionally a communication satellite may receive or transmit for example telephony signals television signals radio signals broadband telecommunications signals or the like.

In some variants processor or any components of implementations may optionally be configured to perform flow variants as described herein with reference to any of . An occurrence of such a variant can be expressed as a computation a transition or as any other items of data described herein for example. Such output can be generated for example by depicted components of primary system or network including one or more features as described with reference to any of or .

In an alternative embodiment the computing device further a computer readable media configurable by data outputted by at least one of the communications monitoring module and or the evaluation module. The computer readable media is illustrated as a storage media . In another embodiment the computing device further includes a retention module operable to maintain informational data corresponding to the determined correlation. In a further embodiment the computing device includes an output module operable to provide access to informational data corresponding to the determined correlation. In another embodiment the computing device further includes a computing device responsive to human input and operable to display human perceivable content and communicate with a network. In yet another embodiment the computing device further includes a computing device operable to provide electronic content via a network. In a further embodiment the computing device further includes a network intermediary device operable to communicate with a network. In another embodiment the computing device further includes a computing device under a control of the third party.

In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

The device also includes means for assessing an influence of the content site on an involvement between the computing device responsive to a human user input and the beneficiary site. In an alternative embodiment the device further includes means for receiving data indicative of an affinity of a human user of the computing device. In another embodiment the device further includes means for outputting the influence assessment in a form usable by a process facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the content site.

With reference now to shown is an example of another system that may serve as a context for introducing one or more processes systems or other articles described herein. As shown system comprises one or more instances of writers processors controls software or other implementations invokers compilers outputs coding modules or the like with one or more media bearing expressions or outputs thereof. In some embodiments such media may include distributed media bearing a divided or otherwise distributed implementation or output. For example in some embodiments such media may include two or more physically distinct solid state memories two or more transmission media a combination of such transmission media with one or more data holding media configured as a data source or destination or the like.

In some embodiments transmission media may be configured to bear an output or implementation a by causing a channel in a medium to convey a portion thereof or b by constituting adapting addressing or otherwise linking to such media in some other mode that depends upon one or more atypical traits of the partial or whole output or implementation. Data holding elements of media may likewise be configured to bear an output or implementation portion a by holding the portion in a storage or memory location or b by constituting adapting addressing or otherwise linking to such media in some other mode that depends upon one or more atypical traits of the partial or whole output or implementation. Such atypical traits may include a name address portion identifier functional description or the like sufficient to distinguish the output implementation or portion from a generic object.

In some embodiments described herein logic and similar implementations can include software or other control structures operable to guide device operation. Electronic circuitry for example can manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some embodiments one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media hold or transmit a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform a novel method as described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware or firmware components or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

In some embodiments one or more of the coding modules may be configured with circuitry for applying imposing or otherwise using a syntactic or other encoding constraint in forming extracting or otherwise handling respective portions of the device detectable implementation or output. In encoding a software module or other message content for example compiler or coding module may implement one or more such constraints pursuant to public key or other encryption applying error correction modes certifying or otherwise annotating the message content or implementing other security practices described herein or known by those skilled in the art. Alternatively or additionally another instance of coding module may be configured to receive data via receiver e.g. and decode or otherwise distill the received data using one or more such encoding constraints. Compiler may in some variants convert one or more of components from a corresponding source code form before the component s are transmitted across linkage .

System may be implemented for example as one or more instances of stand alone workstations servers vehicles portable devices removable media as components of primary system or network of or the like. Alternatively or additionally media may include one or more instances of signal repeaters communication satellites servers processors routers portions of primary system as shown or the like.

Media may include one or more instances of removable media tapes or other storage media parallel transmission media disks memories other data handling media serial media interfaces or expressions . Removable media can bear one or more device detectable instances of instruction sequences or other implementations of flow or flow for example. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments removable media can bear alphanumeric data audio data image data structure descriptive values or other content in a context that indicates an occurrence of flow or flow . In some circumstances transmission media may bear respective portions of implementations as described herein serially or otherwise non simultaneously. In some variants in which two portions constitute a partial or complete software implementation or product of a novel method described herein portion may follow portion successively through serial media with transmission of portion partly overlapping in time with transmission of portion passing through medium for example .

As shown parallel channels are respectively implemented at least in media of a bus or otherwise effectively in isolation from one another. In some embodiments a bus may be a system of two or more signal paths not unified by a nominally ideal conduction path between them configured to transfer data between or among internal or external computer components. For example one data channel may include a power line e.g. as medium operable for transmitting content of the device detectable implementation as described herein between two taps or other terminals e.g. as media comprising a source and destination .

In another such configuration one or more media of channel may bear portion before while or after one or more other media of parallel channel bear portion . In some embodiments such a process may occur while another process occurs if they coincide or otherwise overlap in time substantially by several clock cycles for example . In some embodiments such a process may occur after an event if any instance of the process begins after any instance of the event concludes irrespective of other instances overlapping or the like.

In a variant in which a channel through medium bears an expression partially implementing an operational flow described herein the remainder of the implementation may be borne earlier or later in some instances by the same medium or by one or more other portions of media as shown. In some embodiments moreover one or more controls may configure at least some media by triggering transmissions as described above or transmissions of one or more outputs thereof.

In some embodiments the one or more physical media may include one or more instances of conduits layers networks static storage compositions or other homogenous or polymorphic structures or compositions suitable for bearing signals. In some embodiments such a communication channel in physical media may include a signal path between two transceivers or the like. A remainder of the media may include other signal paths intersecting the communication channel or other media as described herein. In some variants another exemplary system comprises one or more physical media constructed and arranged to receive a special purpose sequence of two or more device detectable instructions for implementing a flow as described herein or to receive an output of executing such instructions. Physical media may optionally be configured by writer transmitter or the like.

In some embodiments such a special purpose instruction sequence may include any ordered set of two or more instructions directly or indirectly operable for causing multi purpose hardware or software to perform one or more methods or functions described herein source code macro code controller or other machine code or the like. In some embodiments an implementation may include one or more instances of special purpose sequences of instructions patches or other implementation updates configurations special purpose circuit designs or the like. Such designs for example may include one or more instances of a mask set definition a connectivity layout of one or more gates or other logic elements an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a multivariate transfer function or the like.

Segments of such implementations or their outputs may optionally be manifested one or more information bearing static attributes comprising the device detectable implementation. Such attributes may in some embodiments comprise a concentration or other layout attribute of magnetic or charge bearing elements visible or other optical elements or other particles in or on a liquid crystal display or other solid containing medium. Solid state data storage modules or other such static media may further comprise one or more instances of laser markings barcodes human readable identifiers or the like such as to indicate one or more attributes of the device detectable implementation. Alternatively or additionally such solid state or other solid containing media may include one or more instances of semiconductor devices or other circuitry magnetic or optical digital storage disks dynamic or flash random access memories RAMs or the like. Magnetoresistive RAMs may bear larger implementation or output portions or aggregations safely and efficiently moreover and without any need for motors or the like for positioning the storage medium.

Segments of such implementations or their outputs may likewise be manifested in electromagnetic signals laser or other optical signals electrical signals or the like. In some embodiments for example such electrical or electromagnetic signals may include one or more instances of static or variable voltage levels or other analog values radio frequency transmissions or the like. In some embodiments the above mentioned optical signals may likewise include one or more instances of time or position dependent device detectable variations in hue intensity or the like. Alternatively or additionally portions of such implementations or their outputs may manifest as one or more instances of magnetic magneto optic electrostatic or other physical configurations of nonvolatile storage media or as external implementation access services .

In some embodiments physical media can be configured by being operated to bear or operated upon to bear a signal. For example they may include physical media that generate transmit conduct receive or otherwise convey or store a device detectable implementation or output as described herein. Such conveyance or storing of a device detectable implementation or output may be carried out in a distributed fashion at various times or locations or such conveyance or storing of a device detectable implementation or output may be done at one location or time. As discussed above such physical media operated to bear or operated upon to bear may include physical media that are atypically constituted or adapted to facilitate methods or functions as described herein.

In some configurations one or more output devices may present one or more results of computing device data gathered through a process running on a platform of the computing device and indicative of communication between the computing device responsive to a human user input and at least one of the content site a search engine site and or a beneficiary site in response to interface s receiving one or more invocations or outputs of an implementation of this function via linkage . Such an invocation may in some embodiments comprise one or more instances of requests hardware or software activations user actions or other determinants as described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments one or more input devices may later receive one or more invocations or results of search engine site data gathered through a process running on a platform of the search engine site and indicative of communication between the search engine site and the computing device responsive to a human user input. In contexts like these processor or other components of network may likewise constitute a secondary implementation having access to a primary instance of interface implementing methods like flow as described herein.

Serial media comprises a communication channel of two or more media configured to bear a transition or other output increment successively. In some embodiments for example serial media may include a communication line or wireless medium e.g. as medium between two signal bearing conduits e.g. terminals or antennas as media . Alternatively or additionally one or more lenses or other light transmissive media may comprise a serial medium between a light transmissive medium and a sensor or other light receiver or transmitter . In some embodiments such light transmissive media may optionally comprise metamaterials or other media operable for bearing one or more instances of microwave signals radiowave signals visible light signals or the like.

In some embodiments such a lens may be an optical element that causes light to converge or diverge along one or more signal paths. Such a light transmissive medium may include a signal bearing conduit glass or other physical medium through which an optical signal may travel. More generally a signal bearing conduit may be an electrical wire a telecommunications cable a fiber optic cable or a mechanical coupling or other path for the conveyance of analog or digital signals.

Alternatively or additionally system may likewise include one or more instances of media for handling implementations or their outputs satellite dishes or other reflectors antennas or other transducers arrays of two or more such devices configured to detect or redirect one or more incoming signals caching elements or other data holding elements e.g. disks memories or other media integrated circuits or the like. In some variants one or more media may be configured to bear a device detectable implementation as described herein by being constituted or otherwise specially adapted for that type of implementation at one or more respective times overlapping or otherwise. Such signal bearing media may include those configured to bear one or more such signals at various times as well as those currently bearing them.

In some embodiments such caching elements may comprise a circuit or device configured to store data that duplicates original values stored elsewhere or computed earlier in time. For example a caching element may be a temporary storage area where frequently accessed data may be held for rapid access by a computing system. A caching element likewise may be machine readable memory including computer readable media such as random access memory or data disks . In some embodiments such caching elements may likewise comprise a latching circuit or device configured to store data that has been modified from original values associated with the data held elsewhere or computed earlier in time for example .

In one variant respective portions of an expression of implementation may be sent through respective channels at various times. Invoker may request or otherwise attempt to activate a computer program or streaming media overseas via a telephone cable or other channel . Meanwhile output may attempt to trigger a session or other partial implementation success in which may be indicated by receiving expression into a visual display or other medium . Such a program or other implementation may be made complete for example once both of these attempts succeed.

In some embodiments transducer s may comprise one or more devices that convert a signal from one form to another form. For example a transducer may be a cathode ray tube that transforms electrical signals into visual signals. Another example of a transducer comprises a microelectromechanical systems MEMS device which may be configured to convert mechanical signals into electrical signals or vice versa .

In an alternative embodiment the computing device may include at least one additional apparatus. The at least one additional apparatus may include a storage apparatus and or a report configuration apparatus . The assessment apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The report generator apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The broadcast apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . In an embodiment one of more of these apparatus may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

The evaluation operation may be performed by the assessment apparatus of the computing device of . The reporting operation may be performed by the report generator apparatus . The broadcast operation may be performed by the broadcast apparatus .

The operational flow may include at least one additional operation . The at least one additional operation may include an operation and or an operation . The operation saves the user influence report. The operation configures the user influence report to be useful to an entity distributing a benefit to an owner of a network available content on behalf of the third party.

The evaluation circuit is operable to assess a behavioral influence with respect to possible matters of interest to other parties including a third party by network available content on a person accessing the network available content. The analysis circuit is operable to generate a user influence report responsive to the assessed behavioral influence. A characteristic of the user influence report includes differentiating between i a behavioral influence on the person associated with the person activating a link to another network available content owned by the third party that is included in the network available content and ii another behavioral influence on the person. The broadcast circuit is operable to transmit information derived from the user influence report via the computer network. The storage circuit is operable to save the user influence report. For example the user influence report may be saved in a storage media of the computing device.

In an alternative embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

In an alternative embodiment the user computing device may include at least one additional apparatus. The at least one additional apparatus may include a storage apparatus . The monitoring apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The evaluation apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The broadcast apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . In an embodiment one of more of these apparatus may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

In an embodiment the operational flow may be implemented in the system environment illustrated in conjunction with . The monitoring operation may be performed by the monitoring apparatus of the computing device of . The deriving operation may be performed by the evaluation apparatus . The broadcast operation may be performed by the broadcast apparatus .

The monitor circuit is operable to collect data indicative of a person accessing electronic content over a computer network using a user computing device. The data is collected using a process included in a platform of the user computing device. The evaluation circuit is operable to transform the collected data into information indicative of events i associatable with the person having accessed the electronic content and ii of possible interest to other parties including a third party. An aspect of the information indicative of events differentiates between iii information indicative of an event associated with the person activating a link in the electronic content that points to other electronic content owned by the third party and iv information indicative of another event. The broadcast circuit is operable to communicate data indicative of the information indicative of events to a recipient via the computer network. The storage circuit is operable to save the information indicative of events.

In an alternative embodiment the broadcast circuit includes a broadcast circuit operable to communicate data indicative of the information indicative of events to a recipient via the computer network. The data indicative of the information indicative of events is receivable by a site operable to facilitate delivery of a benefit to an owner of at least one instance of the electronic content.

In an alternative embodiment the program instructions further include program instructions incorporated into a platform of the computing device and operable to perform a process in the computing device. In another embodiment the program instructions further include program instructions received from a search engine provider and operable to perform a process in the computing device. In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

In an embodiment the computing environment includes a particular configuration of hardware and or software of the computing device. For example the computing environment may include a state of the hardware and or software of the computing device or a series of states of the hardware and or software. A state of a software of the computing device may include a URL of a Website electronic content displayed by a browser of the computing device key words in the Website content navigation commands implemented with respect to the Website a Website owner elapsed time in the state and or identification of a prior and or subsequent Website content displayed. In another embodiment the computing environment refers to a hardware platform and an operating system running in the computing device. In a further embodiment a computing environment is used to express a type of configuration such as a networking environment database environment transaction processing environment batch environment interactive environment and so on.

The operational flow includes an evaluation operation transforming the collected data into an assessment of an influence of the first electronic content and the second electronic content relevant to an involvement between the person using the computing device and to a subject of interest to a third party. The operational flow also includes a broadcast operation transmitting a user influence report indicating the influence assessment of the electronic content on a behavior of the person. The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

In an alternative embodiment the computing device may include at least one additional apparatus. The at least one additional apparatus may include a privacy apparatus and or a report configuration apparatus . The monitoring apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The involvement determining apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The Web page determining apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The correlation apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . The broadcast apparatus may include one or more sub apparatus not shown . In an embodiment one of more of these apparatus may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

In an embodiment the accumulation operation may be performed by the monitoring apparatus of the computing device of . The first processing operation may be performed by the involvement determining apparatus . The second processing operation may be performed by the Web page determination apparatus . The broadcast operation may be performed by the broadcast apparatus .

The monitor circuit is operable to collect data indicative of a computing device environment of a user side computing device facilitating a person accessing Web pages and facilitating the person communicating with a third party via a computer network. In another embodiment the user side computing device may include the system . The conversion circuit is operable to i transform the collected data to indicate an involvement between the third party and the person and to ii transform the collected data to indicate the Web pages accessed by the person. The evaluation circuit is operable to discern a relationship between i the indicated involvement between the third party and the person and ii the indicated Web pages accessed by the person. In an alternative embodiment the evaluation circuit includes an evaluation circuit operable to discern a correlation between i the indicated involvement between the third party and the person and ii the indicated Web pages accessed by the person. In another alternative embodiment the evaluation circuit includes an evaluation circuit not shown operable to provide a probability of a relationship between i the indicated involvement between the third party and the person and ii the indicated Web pages accessed by the person. The broadcast circuit is operable to output via the computer network data indicative of the discerned relationship. The privacy circuit is operable to anonymize the data indicative of the discerned relationship in response to a privacy policy. The storage circuit is operable to save data indicative of the discerned relationship.

In an alternative embodiment the program instructions further include program instructions incorporated into a platform of the user side computing device and operable to perform a process in the computing device. In another embodiment the program instructions further include program instructions operable to collaborate with a search engine and operable to perform a process in the user side computing device. In a further embodiment the program instructions operable to perform a process in a computing device further include anonymize in response to a confidentiality policy the relationship between the indicated involvement and the Web pages accessed by the person. In an alternative embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

In an embodiment the activity monitoring circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a potential relevant content monitoring circuit a visitor access monitoring circuit a digital content monitoring circuit an encounter monitoring circuit a viewing monitoring circuit content type monitoring circuit and or transformed content monitoring circuit . In another embodiment the interaction monitoring circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a non link activated involvement monitoring circuit a URL independent involvement monitoring circuit an involvement character monitoring circuit a behavior monitoring circuit and or an involvement inferring circuit .

In a further embodiment the behavior evaluation circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a matters of interest evaluation circuit and or an influence trend evaluation circuit . In an embodiment the compensation circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a benefit type evaluation circuit a benefit measure determining circuit a benefit determining algorithm circuit an owner characterization circuit a multiple owners benefit circuit a benefit evaluation circuit and or a benefit apportionment circuit .

In an alternative embodiment the computing device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional apparatus may include an affiliation reception circuit an information data maintenance circuit and or a data access circuit . The affiliation reception circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include an affiliation characteristic circuit and or an affinity factors evaluation circuit .

After a start operation the operational flow includes an activity monitoring operation . The activity monitoring operation receives data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content or a second network available electronic content. The activity monitoring operation may be implemented using the activity monitoring circuit described in conjunction with .

An interaction monitoring operation receives data indicative of an involvement with respect to possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The involvement is independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in the first network available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content. For example a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in an electronic content may include amazon.com link to Web site page or file owned by Amazon.com. Another example of a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in an electronic content may include a link to a Web site page or file owned by a product manufacturer or a political candidate. A further example of a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in an electronic content may include a linked icon a Google cost per action link an AdSense link and or a ValueClick link. An example of an involvement independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party includes the person clicking on a link in a blog to another to blog or site. This may include the person activation a youtube.com link in a blog page to see a YouTube video clip of their favorite artist. Another example of an involvement independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party includes the person keyboarding in an address to a site owned by the third party. This may include a person seeing an item of interest in a blog page and then keyboarding in ebay.com to access eBay s site to search for that item of interest. The interaction monitoring operation may be implemented using the interaction monitoring circuit described in conjunction with .

A behavior evaluation operation assesses a behavioral influence by the first network available electronic content and or the second network available electronic content on the indicated involvement with respect to the possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The behavior evaluation operation may be implemented using the behavior evaluation circuit described in conjunction with . A compensation operation facilitates delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first network available electronic content and or an owner of the second network available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence. The compensation operation may be implemented using the compensation circuit described in conjunction with . The operational flow then proceeds to an end operation.

The operation receives data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a First network available electronic content or a second network available electronic content. The first network available electronic content including at least one of a publicly available electronic content a limited availability electronic content and or a privately available electronic content. The operation may be implemented using the content type monitoring circuit described in conjunction with .

Another embodiment provides an operational flow for reporting influence. After a start operation the operational flow includes receiving data indicative of a person accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content or a second network available electronic content. The operational flow also includes receiving data indicative of an involvement with respect to possible matters of interest between the person and a third party. The data indicative of an involvement includes a first data indicative of an involvement independent of the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in the first network available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content and a second data indicative of an involvement caused by the person activating a link to a site owned by the third party that is included in the first network available electronic content or in the second network available electronic content. The operational flow further includes assessing in response to the first data indicative of an involvement a behavioral influence by the first network available electronic content and or the second network available electronic content. The operational flow also includes facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the first network available electronic content and or an owner of the second network available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence. The operational flow then proceeds to an end operation.

The process includes receiving data indicative of a person accessing a network available electronic content. The process also includes receiving data indicative of an involvement with respect to a possible matter of interest between the person and the third party. The process further includes assessing a behavioral influence with respect to the possible matter of interest between the person and the third party exerted by the network available electronic content. The assessed behavioral influence is unresponsive to any involvement between the person and the third party that is a consequence of the person activating a link to the third party included in the network available electronic content. In an embodiment for example the data indicative of an involvement may include i data indicative a first involvement between the person and the third party that not a consequence of the person activating any link embedded in the network available electronic content to a site owned by the third party and of ii data indicative a second involvement between the person and the third party that is a consequence of the person activating an embedded link in the electronic content to a site owned by the third party. In this example the assessed behavioral influence is responsive to the data indicative of the first involvement and unresponsive to the data indicative of the second involvement. The process also includes outputting the assessed behavioral influence in a form usable by a process facilitating delivery of a benefit to an owner of the network available electronic content.

In an alternative embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes maintaining informational data corresponding to the assessed influence . In another embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes providing access to maintained informational data corresponding to the assessed influence . In a further alternative embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In another alternative embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

The activity monitoring module is operable to receive data indicative of a person accessing a network available electronic content. The interaction monitoring module is operable to receive data indicative of an involvement with respect to a possible matter of interest between the person and a third party. The evaluation module is operable to assess a behavioral influence with respect to the possible matter of interest between the person and the third party exerted by the network available electronic content. The behavioral assessment is not responsive to any involvement between the person and the third party that is a consequence of the person activating a link to the third party included in the network available electronic content. The compensation module is operable to facilitate delivery of a benefit to an owner of the network available electronic content in response to the assessed behavioral influence.

In an alternative embodiment the system further includes a retention module operable to maintain informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. In another embodiment the system includes a data management module operable to provide access to informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. In a further embodiment the system may include a processor a storage media a display and or a communications module .

In another alternative embodiment the computing device further includes a computing device operable to communicate with a network. In a further embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network includes a computing device responsive to human input and operable to display human perceivable content and communicate with a network. The computing device responsive to human input may include a user side computing device. The user side computing device may include the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network includes a computing device operable to provide electronic content to a network. The computing device operable to provide electronic content to a network may include the server device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network includes an intermediate computing device operable to communicate with a network. In an embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network includes a network intermediary device operable to communicate with a network. In a further embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network includes a computing device under a control of the third party and operable to communicate with a network. In another embodiment the computing device operable to communicate with a network includes a search engine site. The search engine site may include the search engine site described in conjunction with .

In an alternative embodiment the device includes means for receiving data indicative of an affinity of the person. In another embodiment the device includes means for saving informational data corresponding to the assessed influence. In a further embodiment the device includes means for providing access to informational data corresponding to the assessed influence.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems apparatus devices computer program products and or processes using block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. In an embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

