---

title: Navigation method and system for selecting and visiting scenic places on selected scenic byway
abstract: A navigation method and apparatus is designed to efficiently retrieve the information on the scenic byways and to visit such scenic byways through calculated routes. The navigation method and system performs a scenic byway mode in which operations and screen displays are specially designed for efficiently retrieving and selecting a desired scenic byway and scenic places to visit. The navigation method and system allows the user to efficiently search the information and select the scenic byway and scenic places to visit. The navigation method and system stores the information on the scenic byways in the map database and facilitates retrieval thereof in response to the request by the user. Alternatively, the information on the scenic byways and scenic places can be retrieved from the remote data server through wireless communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09074907&OS=09074907&RS=09074907
owner: Alpine Electronics, Inc.
number: 09074907
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070712
---
This invention relates generally to a route guidance method and apparatus for a navigation system and more particularly to a method and apparatus for displaying information regarding a scenic byway and scenic places on the scenic byway on a screen of a navigation system to allow a user to easily select and visit one or more scenic places on the selected scenic byway through a route guidance operation of the navigation system.

A navigation system performs travel guidance for enabling a user to easily and quickly reach the selected destination. A typical example is a vehicle navigation system where a vehicle is equipped with a navigation function to guide a driver to a destination through a calculated route. Such a navigation system detects the position of the user s vehicle and reads out map data pertaining to an area at the current vehicle position from a data storage medium for example a CD ROM compact disc read only memory a DVD digital versatile disc or a hard disc. Typically the navigation system displays a map image on a monitor screen while superimposing thereon a mark representing the current location of the user. At an intersection the navigation system notifies the user which direction to turn at the intersection.

An example of process for specifying a destination in the navigation system through a Point of Interest POI search method is shown in . A Find Destination by screen shown in for specifying an input method for selecting the destination. The Find Destination By screen lists various methods for selecting the destination including Address for specifying the city and address of the destination Intersection for specifying the names of two streets which intersect with one another and Point of Interest POI for selecting the programmed destination based on the name category or telephone number.

When selecting the Point of Interest method in the navigation system displays selection methods of point of interest POI either by Place Name or Place Type in . The Place Name is to specify a name of the intended POI and the Place Type is to specify a category of the intended POI. If the Place Type is selected in the navigation system lists the categories of POIs as shown in .

In the navigation system displays a progress scale during the calculation of the route to the destination. After determining the guidance route the navigation system starts the route guidance operation as shown in . Typically the navigation system shows the intersection that is highlighted to show the next turn and a direction of the turn. The search method in a conventional navigation system works in this manner when there is one fixed destination.

However the conventional navigation system cannot sufficiently fulfill the needs of a user who wants to search multiple points of interest and obtain the most efficient route to accomplish the purpose of the trip. Although the above procedure works to guide a user to a particular destination there is a demand that the route guidance function of the navigation system be extended for a new level of achievement in the driving. For example the conventional navigation system is not suitably designed to obtain information on places of interest associated with a particular route park etc.

In many areas of the country there are roads selected by the government or public organization based on scenic recreational natural historic cultural and archaeological qualities hereafter referred to as scenic byways . A typical example of scenic byway is a road running through a national park a coastline etc. where a visitor can enjoy many beautiful sceneries natural monuments etc. along the road. Such an example of scenic byway is illustrated in the schematic map view of that has a scenic byway name San Luis Obispo North Coast Byway part of Coast Highway 1 in California .

As shown there are many attractive places to visit on the scenic byway shown in . For example on the schematic map image of it is assumed that San Simeon Cambria Harmony etc. are places of interest byway points or scenic places along the scenic byway that provide scenic attractions. Such places of interest may not necessarily be located on the scenic byway but are close enough to the scenic byway such that a driver or a hiker can easily reach such places. For instance Ragged point vista Point Estero etc. are not directly located on the scenic byway Coast Highway 1 but are located close to the scenic byway.

Although a limited number of byway points are shown on the map in many other byway points may exist. For example Estero Properties Hearst Castle Mission de San Luis Obispo Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary Morro Bay National Estuary etc. on the map image are also places of interest associated with the scenic byway of . Although there are many scenic byways in the country in the conventional navigation system it is not easy to find a scenic byway let alone to obtain information on scenic places along and proximate to the scenic byway or to efficiently visit such scenic places.

Thus it is desired that scenic byways can be searched in an efficient and organized manner through a navigation system. Moreover there is a need of new navigation system that is capable of easily and quickly finding information regarding scenic byways and scenic places and creating an efficient route to visit such scenic places.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a navigation method and system which is capable of efficiently searching information regarding scenic byways and scenic places and selecting the scenic byway and scenic places to visit.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a navigation method and system which is capable of storing information on the scenic byways in the map database and retrieving the information on the scenic byways in response to the request by the user.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a navigation method and system which is capable of performing a scenic byway mode in which operations and screen displays are specially designed for efficiently retrieving and selecting a desired scenic byway and scenic places to visit.

One aspect of the present invention is a navigation method for selecting and visiting scenic byway and scenic places. The method includes the steps of preparing data concerning scenic byways throughout a country in a map database of a navigation system or a map database of a remote data server displaying a menu screen which includes a scenic byway menu selecting the scenic byway menu thereby setting an operation of the navigation system to a scenic byway mode checking the map database to retrieve the data concerning scenic byways within a predetermined distance range from a current position or other specified position displaying a scenic byway list which lists scenic byways within the predetermined distance range selecting a scenic byway from the scenic byway list displaying a scenic place list which lists scenic places on the selected scenic byway selecting one or more scenic places from the scenic place list and calculating a route to the selected scenic places and guiding a user to the selected scenic places through the calculated route.

The navigation method further includes a step of retrieving information on a scenic byway selected from the scenic byway list and reproducing the retrieved information. In the navigation method the step of reproducing the retrieved information is conducted by displaying the retrieved information on a screen of the navigation system as well as reproducing the retrieved information by speech sounds.

Further in the navigation method the step of displaying the scenic byway list is conducted by providing an information key to each entry in the scenic byway list to obtain information regarding the scenic byway. In the navigation method the step of displaying the retrieved information on the screen of the navigation system is conducted by displaying a More key on the screen so that the user is able to request further information on the selected scenic byway. In the navigation method the step of displaying the retrieved information on the screen of the navigation system is conducted by displaying a Read key on the screen so that the user is able to request for reproducing the retrieved information by speech sounds.

In the navigation method the step of displaying the scenic place list is conducted by providing a map image key to each entry in the scenic place list and displaying a map image of the scenic place when the map image key is activated. Further the step of displaying the scenic place list is conducted by providing a check box to each entry in the scenic place list to select one or more scenic places. The navigation method further includes a step of disabling further selection of the scenic place when a number of scenic places already selected has reached to a predetermined maximum number.

In the navigation method the step of displaying the map image of the scenic place is conducted by allowing the user to use a scroll key and a cursor on the map image thereby scrolling the map image and changing the size of the map image. In the navigation method the step of allowing the user to use the scroll key on the map image includes a step of displaying a key on the screen so that the user is able to request further search for scenic byways within a predetermined distance range from a location specified by the cursor on the map image.

The navigation method further includes a step of displaying a scenic place list which lists the selected scenic places where each entry in the scenic place list is provided with a reference number or a last destination mark for indicating an order of visiting there. The navigation method further includes a step of displaying a map image of the selected scenic byway on a screen of the navigation system where each of the selected scenic places on the map image is accompanied by the reference number or the last destination mark that corresponds to that in the scenic place list.

In the navigation method the step of calculating the route to the selected scenic places is conducted by using a combination of a conventional routing method for determining a quickest route to the scenic place and a scenic byway routing method for determine a route to stay on the scenic byway as long as possible or reasonably long enough. The conventional routing method is mainly used for determining a route between a starting point which is not on the selected scenic byway and any of the selected scenic place and wherein said scenic byway routing method is mainly used for determining a route between one selected scenic place and another selected scenic place.

The navigation method after turning on the navigation system further includes a step of checking whether there exists the unfinished selected scenic place at which the user has not yet arrived and a step of directly starting the scenic byway mode when there exists the unfinished selected scenic place.

Another aspect of the present invention is a navigation system which is designed to efficiently retrieve the information on the scenic byways and to visit such scenic byways through calculated routes by implementing the various steps of the navigation method described above. The navigation system of the present invention provides a scenic byway mode which is typically selected through a main menu of the navigation system to allows a user to easily and quickly search a desired scenic byway and selects scenic places on the scenic byway.

According to the present invention the navigation method and system is designed to efficiently retrieve the information on the scenic byways and to visit such scenic byways through calculated routes. The navigation method and system allows the user to efficiently search the information regarding scenic byways and scenic places and to select the scenic byway and scenic places to visit. The navigation method and system stores the information on the scenic byways in the map database and facilitates retrieval of the information on the scenic byways in response to the request by the user. Alternatively the navigation method and system searches and retrieves the information on the scenic byways and scenic places from the remote data server through wireless communication. The navigation method and system is designed to perform the scenic byway mode in which operations and screen displays are specially designed for efficiently retrieving and selecting a desired scenic byway and scenic places to visit.

The navigation method and system for retrieving information and selecting a scenic byway and scenic places byway points on the selected scenic byway for efficient route guidance operations in the present invention is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the description of the present invention such a scenic place on the scenic byway is also referred to as a byway point or a point of interest . Further the term scenic byway should not be limited to pre registered scenic byways but should be broadly interpreted to any route that has a plurality of geographic historical cultural etc. points and routes that are attractive to users.

It should be noted that the description will be made where the navigation method and system is applied mainly to a vehicle navigation system but the navigation method and system incorporating the scenic byway mode under the present invention can be implemented to other devices having a navigation function such as hand held devices personal computers cellular phone etc. The navigation system of the present invention is designed to more easily and efficiently retrieve the information on the scenic byway and to select the scenic places to visit.

Namely in the present invention the navigation method and system provides a scenic byway mode which is typically selected through a main menu of the navigation system to allows a user to easily and quickly search a desired scenic byway and selects scenic places on the scenic byway. The map database of the navigation system stores the information concerning the scenic byways so that the desired information on the scenic byways can be retrieved through the process of the scenic byway mode. The information concerning the scenic byways can also be retrieved by the navigation system from a remote server directly through wireless communication or indirectly through wired communication.

The navigation system of the present invention displays the information on the specified scenic byways and scenic places so that the user can select desired scenic places based on such information. The navigation system calculates an efficient route to visit the selected scenic byway and guides the user to two or more selected scenic places of the selected scenic byway in an efficient order through an efficient route. Unlike the conventional routing method which usually calculates a route that is quickest or shortest to the destination the routing method under the scenic byway mode of the present invention calculates a route that is balanced between the efficiency and the enjoyment of the sceneries monuments etc.

As noted above a scenic byway includes archaeological cultural historic natural recreational etc. points of interest. In the United States of America and Canada there are about 200 scenic byways registered by a public organization such as U.S. Department of Transportation. In general scenic byways are designated or selected roads that provide beautiful vista. Throughout the description of the present invention the term scenic byway is used however as noted above the term should be interpreted broadly and is inclusive of the routes described above that are characterized by having a plurality of geographic points and routes that are attractive to users.

The navigation method and system of the present invention enables to display specially designed screens for the scenic byway mode. Through the specially designed user friendly screens the user can search desired scenic byways and obtain the information on the desired scenic byways and visit the byway points through the route guidance operation of the navigation system. The navigation system provides such screens in a manner that the user can easily understand the information at a glance on the monitor screen and easily specify the desired scenic places to visit.

A back return key on the navigation screen is used to return to the previous screen i.e. to cancel the most recent selection. In the example of when the main menu screen is displayed the Dest key is highlighted as an initial default setting for selecting a destination. Such initial settings can be changed by the user through a system set up process by selecting the Setup menu noted above on the main menu screen.

In the example of the scenic byway list show three entries namely Route 1 Big Sur Coast HWY Feather River City Byway and Ramona Express Way . In this example the scenic byways are listed in the order of distance from a current position of a user or from a specified location. As noted above each of the listed scenic byways has a plurality of byway points scenic places having scenic recreational natural historic cultural and archaeological qualities. In the screen of at the right side of each scenic byway entry an information key is provided which is used to obtain general and detailed information regarding the scenic byway as will be explained in detail later.

Although only three entries are listed additional entries can be seen by scrolling the scenic byway list by operating a scroll keys . As noted above at present there are about 200 scenic byways registered by the government such as U.S. Department of Transportation in Canada and the United States of America. Such scenic byways are sorted in the order of distance by activating the distance key by the user or by a default setting. The scenic byways can also be sorted in the order of alphabet as shown in by activating an alphabet key .

When the user selects one of the entries from the scenic byway list in the navigation system will display a scenic places byway points list for the selected scenic byway as shown in . As noted above scenic places are places of scenic historic recreational natural cultural etc. qualities that are located on or proximate to the selected scenic byway. In this example the scenic place list shows three scenic places NEAREST BYWAY ENTRANCE BLOSSOM MUSIC CENTER and CANAL FULTON associated with the selected scenic byway FEATHER RIVER CITY BYWAY .

By operating the scroll key the user is able to scroll the scenic place list to see more entries of scenic places in the list for the selected scenic byway FEATHER RIVER CITY BYWAY . In this example at the left of each entry in the scenic place list a check box is provided so that the user is able to select a particular byway point in the list. By selecting one or more scenic places the user is able to enjoy a route guidance operation by the navigation method and system of the present invention to the selected scenic places.

In the example of the entry at the top of the list NEAREST BYWAY ENTRANCE is highlighted by default i.e. as an initial setting. The user can change the selection by changing the highlight to other entries such as a byway point BLOSSOM MUSIC CENTER as shown in . In a map image key is also provided at the right of each entry in the scenic place list to see the map image of the selected scenic place which will be described in detail later.

The navigation system will calculate the route to reach each of the selected scenic places byway points in an efficient order as will be described below. Namely in calculating the route the navigation system attempts to find an efficient route that takes the selected scenic byway while making stops at selected scenic places with a short time and distance but also with an enjoyable route of scenic beauty etc. in taking the current location of the user into consideration. As will be described later the navigation system also provides detailed information on the scenic byways and scenic places through texts and or video image on the screen or speech sounds.

In the example the screen includes a byway information window which provides the information in either a text form and or a video image for the selected scenic byway. The user is able to scroll the byway information window to see more information by operating the scroll keys . When the user presses a Read key the navigation system will read aloud the information through a text to speech conversion technology which helps the user to concentrate on looking ahead for the driving. When the user presses a More key the navigation system will list additional and detailed information on the selected scenic byway and scenic places when such information is available as will be explained later with reference to .

Based on the detailed information obtained in the manner of the user will be sufficiently informed to determine whether he she wants to visit a particular scenic byway. Then by pressing the OK key in FIG. F the navigation system displays the scenic place byway point list again as shown in . Thus the user is able to select the scenic places associated with the selected scenic byway FEATHER RIVER CITY BYWAY by placing the check marks in the check boxes .

As shown in the display example of it is possible to select a plurality of scenic places because a scenic byway typically has two or more scenic places. However due to performance slow down that can be caused by calculation of a large number of scenic places to visit the navigation system may preferably have a numeric limit of the scenic places that can be selected at the same time. For example the maximum number of the scenic places that can be selected may be limited to a practical number such as six.

Thus in the example of scenic places CANAL FULTON and NEAREST BYWAY ENTRANCE are checked and suppose four other scenic places points not shown are already checked a check box for the remaining scenic place BLOSSOM MUSIC CENTER is disabled. In to show that the number of selection is reached to the maximum number for the scenic place BLOSSOM MUSIC CENTER the corresponding check box is shaded and disabled in the scenic place list . In other words if the maximum number of the scenic place has been reached the check boxes for unchecked entries remain shaded and disabled. As noted above shows a situation where the map image key is provided to each entry in the scenic byway list rather than the scenic place list .

In the example of the screen includes several options which are OK to Proceed key View Routes key Scenic Place List key and Change Method key . When the user activates the OK to Proceed key the navigation system will calculate a route that guides to the selected scenic places byway points . shows a display that depicts the map image and the route calculation progress indicator that is shown while the route to the destination is calculated. After the route calculation the navigation system starts the route guidance to the selected scenic places in the manner shown in in which the navigation system shows the calculated route and the intersection that are highlighted to show the next turn and a direction of the turn turn by turn guidance .

Similarly show another example of pop up screen with a message indicating that there is a limit to the route guidance operation. When the user presses the OK to Proceed key on the confirmation screen of the navigation system displays a screen of . In this example the warning sign B popped up on the navigation screen indicates that the waypoint and destination i.e the intermediate scenic places and the final scenic place are located in an area where turn by turn guidance cannot be provided.

Similarly show a further example of pop up screen with a message indicating that there is a limit to the route guidance operation. When the user presses the OK to Proceed key on the confirmation screen of the navigation system displays a screen of . In this example the warning sign C popped up on the screen indicates that the waypoint i.e. the selected scenic place is located in an area where turn by turn guidance cannot be provided.

As noted above these situations involving the warning signs A C occur when there is not an appropriate road for a vehicle to reach the scenic place. Further examples of message in the pop up screen may include such warnings as Destination is located on a pedestrian walkway i.e. vehicle is not allowed You will be guided to your nearest road i.e. not to the selected scenic place but close to there or Destination is located on an avoided road. Do you still want to proceed etc.

The user may zoom in or zoom out the map image by pointing a location by a cursor and may scroll the map image as well by operating a direction key . The screen of shows the display example where the user has scrolled the map image to show an area apart from that of . The map image of is also zoomed up from the map image of to show the enlarged map at the location pointed by the cursor .

The screen of is similar to that of and that show the detailed information on the selected scenic byway and several options. In the example of the user presses the More key for obtaining additional information regarding the selected scenic byway. Then the navigation system will display a screen of which lists further options menu keys or selection keys for retrieving the additional information on the selected scenic byway.

In this example of the screen includes an Overview key a Map key a Service key a Consideration key a Restriction key and a Contact key . The Overview key is used to retrieve overview information of the selected scenic byway the Map key is used to retrieve a map image of the selected scenic byway and the Service key is used to retrieve the information regarding the services available in the selected scenic byway.

Further in the Consideration key is used to retrieve the information that must be thought about when the user is planning to visit the selected scenic byway the Restriction key is used to retrieve the information regarding restrictions involved in the selected scenic byway and the Contact key is used to retrieve the information concerning the contact of the selected scenic byway such as telephone number. On the screen of the name of the selected scenic byway FEATHER RIVER CITY BYWAY is shown in the window .

When the user presses the Overview key through the screen of the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in which provides information regarding the overview of the selected scenic byway. The overview information may include basic features and highlights of the selected scenic byway so that the user is able to acquire a basic image and knowledge for visiting the selected scenic byway. The user is able to scroll the screen to view more information by pressing the scroll keys in up and down. Although the overview on the selected scenic byway is displayed in the text form in the voice speech may also be produced by pressing the Read key or automatically when the system is so set up.

The screen of is similar to that of except that it shows the situation where the user presses the Consideration key . Then the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in which provides information regarding the considerations such as warnings and recommendations associated with the selected scenic byway. The considerations information may also include traffic information dangerous spot etc and view area information that is easy to miss while driving and other useful advice. The user is able to scroll the screen to view more information by pressing the scroll keys in up and down. Although the consideration regarding the selected scenic byway is displayed in the text form in the audible sounds reproducing the same information may also be generated automatically or by pressing the Read key .

The screen of is similar to that of except that it shows the situation where the user presses the Map key . Then the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in which produces a map image of the selected scenic byway. The map image preferably includes the whole route and scenic places of the selected scenic byway. On the map image the user is able to zoom in or zoom out the map image or scroll the map image by operating the direction key . The user is able to specify a location on the map image by the cursor to zoom in or zoom out the map image to check POIs points of interest etc. at the specified location.

The screen of is similar to that of except that it shows the situation where the user presses the Restriction key . Then the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in which provides information regarding the restrictions that the user may be encountered in the selected scenic byway. The restriction information may include regulation that prohibits certain activities by the user at certain locations in the scenic byway times or seasons etc.

The restriction information may be the data that have been accumulated in the map database of the navigation system or the data that is dynamically retrieved by connecting the navigation system to a network such as internet or satellite radio. The user is able to scroll the screen to view more information by pressing the scroll keys in up and down. Although the restriction information regarding the selected scenic byway is displayed in the text form in the audible sounds reproducing the same information may also be generated automatically or by pressing the Read key .

The screen of is similar to that of except that it shows the situation where the user presses the Service key . Then the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in which provides information regarding the services available in the selected scenic byway. The services information may include phone numbers of available services food facilities gas stations rest rooms and rest areas parking hotels etc. in the selected scenic byway and nearby.

As shown in icons may be displayed to represent the available services for the user to easily grasp the available services at a glance. The user is able to scroll the screen to view more information by pressing the scroll keys in up and down. Although the service information regarding the selected scenic byway is displayed in the text form in the audible sounds reproducing the same information may also be generated automatically or by pressing the Read key .

The screen of is similar to that of except that it shows the situation where the user presses the Contact key . Then the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in which provides information regarding the contacts available regarding the selected scenic byway. The contact information may include names of information centers or guide offices their phone numbers and other information such as e mail addresses or web addresses as well.

The user is able to scroll the screen to view more information by pressing the scroll keys in up and down. Although the contact information regarding the selected scenic byway is displayed in the text form in the audible sounds reproducing the same information may also be generated automatically or by pressing the Read key . In the case where no contact information is available for the selected scenic byway the navigation system will so notify by displaying a screen such as shown in .

Next with reference to the procedures and screen examples involved in the navigation method and system under the present invention will be described with respect to the situation where the user has already selected the scenic byway mode. is an example of screen showing the main menu of the navigation system that prompts the user to select the next action. In other words shows the situation in which the user has activated the main menu screen again after the user has selected the scenic byway mode and specified a certain scenic byway or a menu or key associated with the scenic byway mode.

Since the user has already selected the scenic byway mode the Scenic Byway key in the main menu is highlighted by default. When the user presses an enter key or otherwise execute the navigation system in this situation the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in to quickly retrieve the data associated with the scenic byway that the user has selected in advance. In this example of the navigation screen includes a Scenic Byway Information key and a Scenic Place List key to prompt the user to select one of the keys.

In when the user presses the Scenic Byway Information key the navigation system displays a screen shown in which includes the detailed information concerning the selected scenic byway. This screen is similar to the screen shown in noted above and the More key and the Read key function in a similar manner as described above. The user is able to scroll the screen to view more information by pressing the scroll keys in up and down.

The screen of is similar to that of except that it shows the situation where the user presses the Scenic Place List key . Then the navigation system will display a screen shown in which lists the remaining scenic places that the user has not reached during the previous trip. In this example as the user has reached the two selected scenic places from the original list the navigation system will delete the two scenic places that the user has visited. Thus the list of starts with the scenic place of place number as the first two scenic places have been reached thereby dynamically updating the current situation. The double circle in the list indicates the destination for example the last scenic place of the selected scenic byway.

The screen of is similar to that of because the Scenic Place List key is highlighted however it is assumed that in reality the user has already reached the final destination. Then the navigation system will display a screen shown in which notifies that the user has arrived at the final destination such as the last scenic place. In this example the mark VP showing the current vehicle position and the destination mark double circle are illustrated close to one another to indicate that the user has reached the destination.

The screen of is similar to that of showing the scenic place list except that it shows only the last scenic place. However it is assumed that in reality the user has already reach the last scenic place. Then if this scenic place is selected the navigation system will display a screen shown in which notifies that the user has arrived at the final destination such as the last scenic place. In this example the mark VP showing current vehicle position and the destination mark double circle are illustrated close to one another to indicate that the user has reached the destination.

The screen of is similar to that of except that it shows the situation where the user presses the OK key although the user has already deleted all of the remaining selected scenic places and the final destination. Then the navigation system will display a screen shown in which is in a locator map mode. In this example since there is no longer a waypoint or a destination for the route guidance operation the navigation system moves to the locator map mode to show the map image on which the mark VP showing current vehicle position is illustrated.

At the upper part of the screen there is shown a progress scale showing a degree of travel on the selected scenic byway toward the final destination indicated by the double circle. The shaded portion at the left side of the scale indicates that the user has already finished or passed the route on the selected scenic byway while the plain portion at the right side indicates remaining route to the final destination. In this example the screen of shows various function keys related to the Route key in the main menu which include a Display Entire Route key a Change Method key a Find POI Along Route key a Delete Destination key a Find Byway Nearby key and a Delete Waypoint key .

The Display Entire Route key is used to display a map image of an entire route from the start point to the final destination via waypoints. The Change Method key is used to change the routing method for calculating routes to the waypoints and destination ex. shortest route quickest route stay on scenic route route without using toll road etc. . The Find POI Along Route key is used to search and display POI points of interest information along the calculated route to the destination. The Delete Destination key is used to cancel the final destination. The Find Byway Nearby key is used to find a scenic byway close to the current position or a specified position. The Delete Waypoint key is used to cancel the waypoints intermediate destinations on the calculated route before the final destination.

In the menu keys of the Find Byway Nearby key is directly related to the scenic byway mode of the present invention for selecting and visiting the scenic byway. When the user presses the Find Byway Nearby key on the screen of the navigation system will search scenic byways close to the current position of the user or to any position specified by the user. The screen of may be shown during the search to inform the user that the search operation is in progress.

The search may be performed to find a scenic byway that is within a predetermined distance range such as 50 miles from the present vehicle position to a midpoint or any other predefined point of the scenic byway. Such a search distance range may be modified freely by the user for obtaining desired result. As the search progresses the navigation system will list the detected scenic byway as soon as at least one scenic byway is detected as shown in .

The screen of shows a scenic byway list which lists nearby scenic byways that have been found as a result of the search in the previous process . As noted above typically each of the scenic byways has a plurality of byway points scenic places having scenic recreational natural historic cultural and archaeological qualities. In the screen of at the right side of each scenic byway entry an information key is shown which is used to obtain detailed information regarding the corresponding scenic byway.

When the user selects one of the scenic byways in the scenic byway list of the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in which shows a scenic place list . Thus the navigation system prompts the user to select desired scenic places byway points on the selected scenic byway. As noted above scenic places are places having qualities of scenic historic cultural etc. that are located on the selected scenic byway or proximate to the selected scenic byway.

In this example at the left of each entry of the scenic place list a check box is provided so that the user is able to select a particular scenic place in the list by inserting a check mark in the check box . In the scenic place list a map image key is also provided at the right of each entry to see the map image of the selected scenic place. The user is able to scroll the screen showing the scenic place list to see more scenic places by pressing the scroll keys in up and down.

When the user activates the OK to Proceed key the navigation system will calculate a route that incorporate the selected scenic places. shows a screen of the navigation system that depicts the map image and the route calculation progress indicator that is shown while the route is being calculated. In calculating the route the navigation system attempts to find an efficient route that can quickly guide the user to the selected scenic byway while making stops at the selected scenic places. As has been described in the foregoing the navigation system also provides detailed information on the scenic byways and scenic places through texts and or image on the screen and or audio sounds. After the route calculation the navigation system starts the route guidance to the selected scenic places through the calculated routes.

In the situation of or in other situations where the map image is displayed suppose the user points a particular location on the map image by the cursor and clicks the cursor the navigation system will display a screen of . In the example of the screen includes various options or menus associated with the specified location on the map image. Such menus include Add to Favorite Spot Avoid Road Avoid Area and Find Byway Nearby . A balloon like message box shows an address of the location pointed by the cursor .

In the example of the Add to Favorite Spot menu is used to add the place pointed by the cursor to a list of favorite spots created by the user. The Avoid Road and Avoid Area menus are used to avoid the road or area specified by the cursor so that such a road or an area will not be included in the calculated route for the route guidance operation to the destination such as selected scenic byway and scenic places. The Find Byway Nearby menu is to find a scenic byway close to the location specified by the cursor .

Such a search distance range may be modified by a user for obtaining desired result through a system set up procedure etc. As the search progresses the navigation system will list the detected scenic byways such as shown in as noted above. If the navigation system is unable to find any scenic byway it will indicate that no scenic byways are found within the predefined distance as shown by a screen message of .

Then the navigation system displays a screen showing a scenic place list which lists the selected scenic places on the selected scenic byway as shown in . In the example of the selected scenic places are provided with reference numerals so that each scenic places can be distinguished on the map image of the scenic byway such as shown in . Unlike the examples of or the double circle showing the final scenic place final destination is not used in the example of . As shown in the map image of the selected scenic places on the selected scenic byway are denoted by the reference numerals which correspond to that in the scenic place list .

However it is also possible to use other marks such as flags to show the selected scenic places on the selected scenic byway in the list as shown in . In such a case when the Map key is executed on the screen of for example the map image showing the selected scenic byway includes the flags as shown in to indicate the locations of the selected scenic places. In this situation if the user points the cursor on the flag the name of the scenic place will be displayed by the balloon like message area in a manner similar to that shown in .

Then when the user turn on the navigation system is turned on again by for example starting the vehicle engine the navigation system displays the next scenic places to visit automatically. are associated with such situations for trips to the remaining scenic places. is an opening screen of the navigation system when the vehicle is turned on which typically shows a logo of a manufacture and starts loading the program for the operation of the navigation system. Typically at the start of operation the navigation system displays a warning message to the effect that the navigation system is not to be used as a substitute for the driver s personal judgement a copyright agreement etc.

The navigation system will then show the next scenic place waypoint destination to be visited on a Continue Trip To screen as shown in which is similar to the confirmation screen of . The Continue Trip To screen shows the name of the scenic byway FEATHER RIVER CITY BYWAY that the user has selected but not finished prior to turning off the vehicle engine or navigation system. The reference number 1 indicated at the start of the name of the byway also means the scenic place NEAREST ENTRANCE of the selected scenic byway in the scenic place list of . The screen of further includes a OK to Proceed key and a Scenic Place List key to prompt the user to select one of them.

In the case where the user wants to continue the trip for visiting the remaining scenic places of the selected scenic byway the user activates the OK to Proceed key as shown in . Since the current position of the vehicle navigation system may not be consistent with the previously calculated route it is usually necessary to produce a newly calculated route to the next scenic place. Thus the navigation system starts the route calculation as shown in from the current position to the next destination which is the scenic place NEAREST BYWAY ENTRANCE . After establishing the calculated route the navigation system starts the route guidance operation to the next scenic place.

In the example of the each entry of the scenic place is provided with a number that shows an order of visiting there. This number may also be an indicator when the map image is displayed to show the location of the corresponding scenic place. As noted above the double circle is a final destination i.e. the last scenic place to visit based on the route previously calculated by the navigation system. Thus the user is able to see the list of the previously selected scenic places and if so desires the user is able to select highlight a particular scenic place in the scenic place list and delete the scenic place by operating a cancel key not shown on the navigation system as shown in .

In the case where the user has already visited the first scenic place before turning off the navigation system or vehicle engine the navigation system shows the name of the next scenic place when it is started. Namely when turning on the navigation system through the process of the navigation system shows the Continue Trip To screen as shown in . The screen of is similar to that of however it shows the next scenic place JACOB FIELD in the selected scenic byway since the user has already visited the first scenic place NEAREST ENTRANCE .

If the user wants to continue the trip for visiting the remaining scenic places of the selected scenic byway the user activates the OK to Proceed key as shown in . Then the navigation system starts the route calculation as shown in from the current position to the next destination which is the scenic place JACOB FIELD in this example. After establishing the calculated route the navigation system starts the route guidance operation to the next scenic place.

Similar to the example of the each entry of the scenic place in is provided with a number that shows an order of visiting there. This number may also be an indicator when the map image is displayed to show the location of the corresponding scenic place on the map image. As noted above the double circle is the final destination for example the last scenic place to visit. The order of the intermediate scenic places and final destination last scenic place is based on the route previously calculated by the navigation system thus it may be changed if a new route to these scenic places has to be established. Since the user has already visited or passed the first scenic place NEAREST BYWAY ENTRANCE the scenic place list does not show the first scenic place.

In the case where the user has already visited the three scenic places in the list of before turning off the vehicle engine the navigation system shows the name of the last scenic place when it is turned on. Namely when turning on the navigation system through the process of the navigation system shows the Continue Trip To screen as shown in . The screen of is similar to that of however it shows only the last scenic place KILLBUCK MARSH in the selected scenic byway since the user has already visited or passed the three scenic places.

If the user wants to continue the trip for visiting the last scenic place of the selected scenic byway the user activates the OK to Proceed key as shown in . Then the navigation system starts the route calculation as shown in from the current position to the next destination which is the last scenic place KILLBUCK MARSH . After establishing the calculated route the navigation system starts the route guidance operation to the next last scenic place.

In the example of the user activates the View Routes key to see the map image of the remaining route to the selected scenic places. Then in the navigation system displays a map image of the remaining scenic places. On the map image the calculated route created by the selected route calculation method is highlighted which will be further described with reference to .

More specifically in the example of the screen includes various options or menus associated with a particular location on the map image specified by the cursor . Such options include Add to Favorite Spot Avoid Road Avoid Area and Find Byway Nearby as have been described in the foregoing with reference to . A balloon like message box shows an address of the location pointed by the cursor .

When the user has pressed the Find Byway Nearby menu in then the navigation system proceeds to search the scenic byways close to the location specified by the cursor . The search may be performed to find scenic byways that are within a predetermined distance range such as 50 miles from the location specified by the cursor to the midpoint or other predefined point of the scenic byways. If there is a scenic byway within the search distance range the navigation system displays the screen of which show the map image of two scenic byways within the predetermined distance. Names of the two scenic byways are described in the text box on the screen.

As described with reference to the screen includes the Display Entire Route key Change Method key Find POI Along Route key Delete Destination key Find Byway Nearby key and Delete Waypoint key . Thus when the user activates the Display Entire Route key the navigation system displays the screen showing the map image of the selected scenic byway as shown in . The map image of includes the selected scenic places that are indicated by reference numerals 1 and 2 intermediate scenic places and a double circle last scenic place i.e. final destination .

Suppose the user wants to enjoy more scenic beauties nearby rather than quickly visit only the selected scenic places the user presses the cancel key to return to the confirmation screen of . Then the user activates the Change Method key to change the current routing method to another routing method for calculating the route. Then the navigation system displays a routing method list as shown in which lists several methods for calculating a route.

In the example of the routing method list includes a Quickest Route method a Shortest Route method a Use Much Freeway method and a Stay on Scenic Route method. The Stay on Scenic Byway method is related to the scenic byway mode of the present invention in which the navigation system finds a route to the selected scenic places and final destination while staying on the selected scenic byway. In other words in the Stay on Scenic Byway method the navigation system creates a calculated route so that the user can enjoy the views of the selected scenic byway even though it takes a longer time to reach the selected scenic places than the route calculated by the Quickest Route method.

Since the user wants to enjoy more scenic beauties nearby rather than quickly visit only the selected scenic places as noted above the user selects the Stay on Scenic Route method in the routing method list . Then the navigation system calculates a route through the selected Stay on Scenic Route method. After finishing the route calculation the navigation system displays the confirmation screen as shown in .

If the user wants to see the image of the calculated route the user presses the View Routes key on the confirmation screen of . Then in the navigation system displays a map image on which the calculated route created by the Stay on Scenic Route method is highlighted. The method indicator on the screen also shows that the highlighted route is based on the fourth stay on scenic route method in the routing method list shown in . The newly calculated highlighted route of runs on the scenic byway longer than the calculated route of assuming that the road segments a and b on the calculated route belong to the selected or nearby scenic byway. Thus the user can enjoy the scenery along the route while reasonably quickly traveling to the selected scenic places.

Referring to a situation and routing method for the route guidance is explained involving the scenic byway routing method. In the vehicle is not on the scenic byway thus from the current vehicle position VP to the scenic place 1 the conventional routing method such as a quickest route method or a shortest route method is used for route calculation and guidance. Thus the conventional routing method allows the navigation system to calculate the route to reach the scenic place 1 as soon as possible.

From the scenic place 1 to the next scenic place 2 the navigation system will use the scenic byway routing method and the conventional routing method. That is the navigation system attempts to create the calculated route to stay on the scenic byway as much as possible or reasonably long enough while including the scenic place 2 as a waypoint on the calculated route. If there are two ways on the scenic byway to reach the scenic place 2 the navigation system selects the shorter or quicker route based on the conventional routing method. Assuming that the scenic place 2 is the last stop to visit before the final destination the navigation system will calculate and guide the user to the destination Dst in the conventional routing method.

When the navigation system of the present invention is activated after opening and warning screens it shows a main menu screen such as shown in . The main menu screen includes the Scenic Byway key to go into the scenic byway mode of the present invention. Thus in the step to enjoy the scenic byway method of the present invention the user selects the scenic byway mode by pressing the Scenic Byway key on the main menu screen.

In response in the step the navigation system checks the map database to retrieve the data concerning scenic byways within a predetermined distance from the current position or other specified position and displays a scenic byway list . As in the example of in the scenic byway list the names of the scenic byways are listed in the order of distance from the specified location typically the current vehicle position. Alternatively as in the example of the names of the scenic byways are listed in the order of alphabet.

In response to the request by the user the navigation system shows detailed information on the specified scenic byway in the step . Such detailed information on each of the scenic byway is stored in the map database of the navigation system or can be retrieved from the remote data server through wireless or wired communication. In the case where the user does not want detailed information on the scenic byway the process moves to the step to select a desired scenic byway from the scenic byway list .

In the examples of each entry in the scenic byway list is provided with the information key so that the navigation system retrieves and displays the detailed information of the corresponding scenic byway when the user presses the information key as shown in . The detailed information may be reproduced on the navigation system in the text and video form and or voice sounds. Further in the examples of each entry of the scenic place list is provided with the map image key so that the navigation system retrieves and displays the map image covering the scenic place of the selected scenic byway when the user presses the map image key as shown in .

In the step when the user selects a scenic byway from the scenic byway list as shown in the navigation system displays a scenic place byway point list which lists the scenic places on the selected scenic byway as shown in . As noted above a scenic place byway point is a particular location on the selected scenic byway having a unique scenic beauty etc. Thus in the step the user selects one or more scenic places in the scenic place list as shown in by for example entering a check mark in the check box provided to each entry of the scenic place list .

Then the navigation system displays a confirmation screen to confirm the selected scenic places on the selected scenic byway as shown in . In the present invention the navigation system incorporating the scenic byway mode can display several variations of confirmation screen with different function keys. One example of the confirmation screen is shown in D A etc. and another example of the confirmation screen is shown in K etc.

Upon confirmation in the step the navigation system calculates routes to the selected scenic places and the final destination. As noted above within the context of the present invention the final destination can be one of the selected scenic places or other location such as a user s home hotel etc. that is not a part of the selected scenic byway. After establishing the route to the scenic places the navigation system starts the route guidance operation in the step as shown in . If the navigation system is turned off before visiting all of the selected scenic places the navigation system enters into the scenic byway mode when it is turned on in the step to show the unfinished scenic places as described with reference to .

In the step through the scenic byway list the user selects a desired scenic byway and activates the information key as shown in . In response to the request by the user the navigation system retrieves and produces the detailed information on the specified scenic byway in the step as shown in FIGS. F and A B. In the example of the detailed information is reproduced in the text form on the navigation screen while in the example of the detailed information is also reproduced by the speech sounds. The steps and can be repeated with respect to other scenic byways.

As noted above in the examples of D and M each entry of the scenic place list or scenic byway list is provided with the map image key so that the navigation system retrieves and displays the map image covering the specified scenic byway or the scenic place of the selected scenic byway. Thus in the step the navigation system determines whether the user presses the map image key . If the map image is requested by the user through the map image key the navigation system displays the map image of the selected scenic byway or scenic place in the step .

If the map image is not requested by the user the process moves to the step in which the navigation system determines whether the More key shown in are activated by the user. As noted above the More key is provided on the information screen for obtaining additional information regarding the selected scenic byway. If the More key is pressed by the user as shown in the navigation system displays the screen of which lists further options for retrieving the additional information on the selected scenic byway. Such options and resultant information are described in detail in the above with reference to . Thus in the step the navigation system retrieves and reproduces the detailed information in the text form on the navigation screen and also by the speech sounds.

In the step to select a scenic byway based on the detailed information the user instructs the navigation system to display the screen showing the scenic byway list by for example pressing the return key . The user selects the desired scenic byway to visit in the step and then further selects the scenic places on the selected scenic byway in the step of . The navigation system calculates the routes to the selected scenic places and starts the route guidance operation.

In the step in the scenic place list the navigation system provides a check box for each name of the scenic place. Thus in the step through the scenic place list the user selects a desired scenic place by placing a check mark in the check box as shown in G I and K L. In the case where there is a numerical limit of the scenic places to visit the navigation system determines whether the number of selected scenic places reaches the predetermined limit in the step .

If the number of selected scenic places has not reached the predetermined limit maximum number the steps and noted above will be repeated. If the number of selected scenic places has reached the predetermined limit the process moves to the step to disable further selection of the scenic place by the user. Typically the navigation system notifies the user that the number of the selected scenic places has reached the limit by shading the remaining the scenic places and the corresponding check boxes in the scenic place list as shown in .

Then in the step the navigation system displays a confirmation screen to confirm the selected scenic places on the selected scenic byway as shown in . In the present invention as noted above the navigation system incorporating the scenic byway mode can display several variations of confirmation screen with different function keys. Upon confirmation the navigation system calculates the routes to the selected scenic places and the final destination. After establishing the route to the scenic places the navigation system starts the route guidance operation in the step as shown in . The user may turn off the power of the navigation system by stopping the vehicle engine at the scenic place.

In the step the navigation system checks whether there is a scenic place that has been selected but not yet visited before turning off the navigation system. If there is such an unfinished scenic place the navigation system directly enters into the scenic byway mode in the step as shown in . The confirmation continue trip screen of shows the next selected scenic place to prompt the user to decide whether the user wants to visit the next scenic place. In the step above in the case where there is no unfinished scenic place the process moves to the step to display a main menu screen to conduct the normal navigation operations.

In the confirmation screen of the navigation system provide the Scenic Place List key so that the user can check the remaining scenic places. Suppose the user presses the Scenic Place List key as shown in the navigation system displays the list of unfinished scenic places in the step . Typically the scenic place list includes the reference number for each scenic place to show the order of visiting there as well as the final destination mark as shown in .

In the step through the scenic place list the user selects a desired scenic place by highlighting the name of the scenic place as shown in . Then in the step the navigation system displays a confirmation screen to confirm the selected scenic places on the selected scenic byway as shown in . Upon confirmation the navigation system calculates routes to the selected scenic places and the final destination as shown in . After establishing the route to the scenic places the navigation system starts the route guidance operation in the step as shown in .

Then in the step the navigation system will display a screen such as shown in that provides a set of functions or menu keys associated with the function directed to the Route key . The menu keys of includes the Find Byway Nearby key which is directly related to the present invention for selecting and visiting the scenic byway. In the step the user presses the Find Byway Nearby key on the screen of to see the nearby scenic byways. The navigation system will search a scenic byway part of which is located within a predetermined distance range from the current position or a specified position in the step .

Then in the step the navigation system retrieves and displays a list of scenic byways within the predefined distance range from the current position as shown in . In the step through the scenic place list the user selects a desired scenic place and the navigation system displays a confirmation screen to confirm the selected scenic places. Upon confirmation in the step the navigation system calculates routes to the selected scenic places and the final destination starts the route guidance operation.

In the block diagram the navigation system includes a data storage medium such as a hard disc CD ROM DVD or other storage means for storing the map data including the data of points of interest POI . In addition the data storage medium stores the data concerning the scenic byways for retrieving the general and detailed information on the scenic byways for implementing the present invention. The navigation system includes a control unit for controlling an operation for reading the information from the data storage medium and a position measuring device for measuring the present vehicle position or user position. For example the position measuring device has a vehicle speed sensor for detecting a moving distance a gyroscope for detecting a moving direction a microprocessor for calculating a position a GPS global positioning system receiver for receiving GPS signals from satellites and etc.

The block diagram of further includes a map information memory for storing the map information which is read from the data storage medium a database memory for storing database information such as point of interest POI information which is read out from the data storage medium a remote controller for executing a menu selection operation an enlarge reduce operation a destination input operation etc. and a remote controller interface . Although a remote controller is a typical example for selecting menus executing selected functions and etc. the navigation system includes various other input methods to achieve the same and similar operations done through the remote controller.

In the navigation system further includes a bus for interfacing the above units in the system a processor CPU for controlling an overall operation of the navigation system a ROM read only memory for storing various control programs such as a route search program and a map matching program necessary for navigation control a RAM random access memory for storing a processing result such as a guide route a display controller for generating map image a map guide image and an arrow guide image on the basis of the map information a VRAM for storing images generated by the display controller a menu list generating unit for generating menu image various list images and a synthesizing unit .

The block diagram of further includes a wireless transceiver for wireless communication to retrieve data such as detailed information concerning the scenic byways from a remote data server a buffer memory for temporally storing data for ease of data processing such as listing the retrieved information on the scenic byways and scenic places and scrolling such information and a monitor display . Typically the map image such as the one for entire scenic byway or each scenic place to be displayed is stored in VRAM . A program that performs the operation of the present invention concerning the scenic byway mode as described with reference to the drawings in particular to the flow charts of is stored in the ROM or the data storage medium and is executed by CPU .

As has been described above according to the present invention the navigation method and system is designed to efficiently retrieve the information on the scenic byways and to visit such scenic byways through calculated routes. The navigation method and system allows the user to efficiently search the information regarding scenic byways and scenic places and selects the scenic byway and scenic places to visit. The navigation method and system stores the information on the scenic byways in the map database and facilitates retrieval of the information on the scenic byways in response to the request by the user. Alternatively the navigation method and system searches and retrieves the information on the scenic byways and scenic places from the remote data server through wireless communication. The navigation method and system is designed to perform the scenic byway mode in which operations and screen displays are specially designed for efficiently retrieving and selecting a desired scenic byway and scenic places to visit.

Although the invention is described herein with reference to the preferred embodiment one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that various modifications and variations may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Such modifications and variations are considered to be within the purview and scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

