---

title: Feed protocol used to report status and event information in physical access control system
abstract: A physical access control system is disclosed which includes a network, at least one access controller, a producer device, and a consumer device. Each access controller generates status and event information associated with a controlled physical barrier. The producer device includes producer logic which collects and stores the status and event information. The consumer device includes consumer logic which periodically polls the producer logic via the network to retrieve the status and event information from the producer device. The producer logic and the consumer logic communicate via the network according to a commonly accepted message syndication protocol, such as the RSS protocol or the Atom Publishing Protocol or the like. The use of a commonly accepted message syndication protocol simplifies communications, avoids proprietary configurations and facilitates integration, such as combining systems or adding new devices and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08203426&OS=08203426&RS=08203426
owner: Precision Edge Access Control, Inc.
number: 08203426
owner_city: Lisle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070711
---
The present invention relates to access control systems and more particularly to a feed protocol used to report status and event information in a physical access control system.

A physical access control system includes one or more access controllers which are used to restrict access to one or more physical locations by controlling physical barriers such as doors turnstiles elevators gates etc. A physical access control system is distinguished from logical access control systems such as used to restrict access to data or information on a computer system or the like. A physical access control system may further include local controllers and servers for managing message communications where such messages include event information status information alarm information etc. Conventional physical access control systems used a proprietary or specialized event reporting communication application or messaging service since there was no standard format or syntax for alarm or event reporting. Management technologies therefore have been tied directly to the event source since the message format had to be decided upon beforehand to ensure conformance with the syntax. The relationship with the reporter or producer and the receiver or consumer had to be tightly coupled because it was based on push technology in which the producer asynchronously transmitted the data to the consumer. The tight coupling had to be established before any messages could be sent. The specialized and proprietary nature of conventional physical access control systems along with requisite tight coupling between information producers and consumers made integration very difficult. Integration concerns expanding an existing system such as adding additional controllers or servers or management consoles or the like.

It is desired to provide a messaging service in an access control system that facilitates integration.

The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the present invention as provided within the context of a particular application and its requirements. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will however be apparent to one skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments. Therefore the present invention is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments shown and described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features herein disclosed.

The physical access control system further includes several local controllers LC individually shown as LC and LC for controlling selected ones of the access controllers . Each local controller is configured to make access decisions such as including processor logic not shown and memory not shown . The memory of the local controller for example stores a local cache of tokens or the like. In one embodiment each local controller operates to receive a token via a reader device of a corresponding access device compares the received token with the tokens in its local token cache to make an access decision and grants or denies access depending upon the decision result. If the received token matches a stored token then access is granted and the local controller controls the corresponding access device to grant access based on the access decision. If the token is not found then access is denied.

Each token at any given local controller may be authorized for selected times or according to predetermine rules. In one embodiment for example a scenarios database or the like incorporates access rules scheduling information operational modes etc. for maintaining the access information for each local controller . A given token may have few if any limitations meaning that it allows access to all areas at all times. Other tokens may have certain qualifications or limitations such as allowing access only to selected areas or allowing access only for selected times or allowing access only for certain dates or any combination of these limitations. Such qualifications are associated with scenarios which describe general operational modes for each local controller including rules applied to each token. The scenarios encompass various operational modes such as emergency situations or scheduled events or time periods. In general the scenarios determine which tokens are authorized for which areas for which times and for which situations or conditions. Each token may further include flags or the like for turning on and off authorization or modifying access rules or scenarios or access conditions associated with that token. For example selected tokens may be enabled or disabled during certain times or dates such as daytime nighttime or weekday weekend etc. It is appreciated by those skilled in the art that any number of flags may be defined for each token.

In the illustrated embodiment the physical access control system includes one or more local controllers each associated with or otherwise controlled by at least one access server AC . Although only two access servers are shown individually labeled AS and AS it is understood that the physical access control system may include any number of access servers depending upon the particular configuration. The access controllers the local controllers and the access servers are all coupled to a network . A management console MC is also provided and coupled to the network . Each access controller monitors and collects status and event information for a corresponding one of the doors . In one embodiment the status and event information includes any type of relevant information suitable for the particular implementation of the physical access control system such as access controller status e.g. door open door closed door locked door unlocked etc. local controller status e.g. controller online offline access allowed events access denied events etc. various types of alarms e.g. door forced door held device tamper etc. etc.

The network may incorporate any wired or wireless communication configuration or any combination thereof. Each of the access controllers the local controllers the access servers the management console etc. may be coupled to the network using wired or wireless communications or the like. The network is typically a relatively high bandwidth and or high reliability network. The physical access control system may be implemented as a closed system and or otherwise a secure system. The network for example may be isolated from other networks to maintain a high level of security. In alternative embodiments the network includes less secure portions and may even be coupled to one or more public or larger networks such as the public switched telephone network PSTN and or the Internet and the like. As an example the management console may be externally coupled via the Internet for retrieving status and event information of selected access servers within the physical access control system . In various embodiments such as those including limited security or non secure networks secure communications between the controllers servers consoles etc. may be facilitated using encrypted communication methods or channels. The network is configured to enable communications according to any suitable type of communication protocol such as for example the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or the like. A secure HTTP connection e.g. HTTPS or the like may be employed to provide a suitable level of authentication and encryption to prevent unauthorized access or control of the system.

The management console monitors status and events and manages operations of selected devices controllers access servers etc. within the physical access control system . As shown the access controller AC collects status and event information of the door D and reports the collected information to the local controller LC via the network as indicated by arrow . In a similar manner the access controller AC collects status and event information of the door D and reports the collected information to the local controller LC via the network as indicated by arrow . Furthermore the access controllers AC and AC collect status and event information of the doors D and D respectively and report this information to the local controller LC as indicated by arrows and respectively. In this manner the local controller LC collects aggregated status and event information about doors D and D and the local controller LC collects aggregated status and event information about doors D and D. The local controllers LC and LC further report aggregated status and event information to the access server AS via the network as illustrated by arrows and respectively. The access server AS reports aggregated status and event information to the management console via the network as indicated by the arrow . The access server AS may collect similar status and event information from either one or both of the local controllers or other local controllers not shown and report this information to the management console .

In conventional configurations management consoles were essentially coupled to the network at fixed or predetermined known locations using point to point communications and the like. A proprietary closed and relatively static event driven protocol was used to enable communication between a fixed management console and selected access servers. Information communicated by an access server was interrupt driven and communicated to particular management console s in an asynchronous manner such as via a targeted communication or the like. In such a static and proprietary system the conventional management console had to be connected and operational to receive and record the event communications or otherwise receive a dump of queued event communications when brought online. The proprietary communication protocol of the conventional management console had to be specifically configured to receive and manage communications.

As described further below each of the devices of the physical access control system communicate via the network employing a standardized and easily configurable message syntax that enables other devices to subscribe and unsubscribe to other devices at any time. As shown for example the management console may directly receive the status and event information collected by the local controller LC via the network as illustrated by arrow . The management console may subscribe to receive the status and event information from any other local controller in the system in similar manner. Also the management console may also directly receive the status and event information detected by the access controller AC via the network as illustrated by arrow . The management console may subscribe to receive the status and event information from any other access controller in the system in similar manner. Furthermore the access server AS may directly receive the status and event information of the access controller AC via the network as illustrated by arrow thereby bypassing the local controller LC. The access server AS or any other access server may subscribe to receive the status and event information from any other access controller in the system in similar manner.

In one embodiment the consumer logic is included within any device of the physical access control system for requesting information from other producer devices such as within the local controllers the access servers and the management console . The consumer logic may be included within any one of the access controllers in the event it is desired to transfer status and event information from one access controller to another. In one embodiment the producer logic is included within any device of the physical access control system for providing information in response to requests from other devices such as within the access controllers the local controllers the access servers and the management console . The management console includes the producer logic if it is desired to send information from to another management console not shown or to transmit information to other management devices not shown . It is appreciated that any given device within the physical access control system may include both the consumer logic and the producer logic .

The consumer logic includes a message processor which further incorporates or otherwise interfaces a list of aggregated status and events shown as a status and event document S E DOC . The status and event information aggregated into the status and event document may come from any one or more of a variety of sources depending upon which device incorporates the consumer logic and from which devices it requests the information. The message processor interfaces retrieve event feed logic which generates a request message and sends the request message to the producer logic via the network . The producer logic responds with a status and event message via the network containing requested information. The status and event message is provided to the message processor which incorporates any new information contained within the message into the status and event document .

In one embodiment the consumer logic includes polling logic coupled to the message processor and the retrieve event feed logic . The message processor programs the polling logic according to a predetermined time period or according to predetermined conditions or criterion and the polling logic times out and interrupts or otherwise communicates to the retrieve event feed logic . In response to a polling interrupt or communication from the polling logic the retrieve event feed logic generates and sends another message to the producer logic . In one embodiment the polling logic includes a timer or the like which generates an interrupt upon expiration of each time period e.g. every millisecond every second every minute etc. . In another embodiment the polling logic incorporates more sophisticated logic for polling based on selected time periods and or other events or dates or information or criterion. As an example the polling logic may be programmed to adjust the frequency of polling of certain producer devices during certain time of day or during certain days of the week etc.

The producer logic includes a message processor which further incorporates or otherwise interfaces a list of aggregated status and events shown as a status and event document . In one embodiment the producer logic or the device incorporating the producer logic further includes consumer logic configured in substantially the same manner as the consumer logic for requesting status and event information from other devices in the physical access control system . For example in one embodiment the local controller LC includes the consumer logic which may be configured in similar manner as the consumer logic to request and collect status and event information from the access controllers AC and AC and further includes the producer logic to provide the aggregated information to a requesting consumer device such as the access server AS and or the management console . It is noted that any device incorporating both the consumer logic and the producer logic may have a single message processor e.g. message processors and are combined as a single processor which manages a single status and event document e.g. status and event documents and are combined as a single document . As shown the consumer logic or the device incorporating the consumer logic may also include producer logic coupled to the message processor . The producer logic may be configured in substantially the same or similar manner as the producer logic and may further employ the same message processor of the consumer logic rather than a separate message processor.

In one embodiment the producer logic or the device incorporating the producer logic includes monitoring and detection logic for monitoring status and detecting events associated with a corresponding one of the doors or the like. Each access controller for example may include the monitoring and detection logic for detecting the status and event information from at least one source e.g. door or the like within the physical access control system . The status and event information from either one or both of the consumer logic and the monitoring and detection logic is provided to and collected by the message processor and stored within the status and event document .

The producer logic further includes return feed list logic interfaced with the message processor for responding to request messages sent from the consumer logic via the network . The return feed list logic examines or otherwise parses the request message and communicates with the message processor to generate the corresponding status and event message which is sent back to the consumer logic in response to the request message . The message processor gathers the status and event information within the status and event document according to the request message into the status and event information message and then sends the message back to the consumer logic . In certain embodiments the request message is configured as a simple request indication such that the producer logic responds by incorporating substantially all of the information from the status and event document into the status and event message . The message processor is configured to filter out and discard redundant or obsolete status and event information and incorporate only new or updated information into the status and event document . In various embodiments the message processor is also configured according to predetermined rules or the like to filter out or otherwise remove obsolete information.

In other embodiments the request message incorporates one or more arguments or values or parameters or switches or the like to identify particular information requested or to otherwise limit the amount of information incorporated within the status and event message . In the illustrated embodiment for example each entry of the status and event documents and include a temporal value such as a timestamp TS or a sequence number SN or the like indicative of when or in which order the status indication or event occurred. In this embodiment the request message may include an UPDATE SINCE value including one or more temporal parameters such as a timestamp and or a sequence number or the like. The return feed list logic detects whether the UPDATE SINCE value is set and if so retrieves the temporal parameter s associated with the UPDATE SINCE value and instructs the message processor to include only the information after the SN or subsequent to the TS within the status and event message . In this manner the UPDATE SINCE value of the request message may be used to limit the amount of data transmitted on the network such as to new or updated information.

For example the retrieve event feed logic may send an initial request message as a simple request or with the UPDATE SINCE value not set or otherwise cleared to retrieve all of the status and event information contained within the status and event document . The message processor receives and provides the last TS or SN of the last status and event message to the retrieve event feed logic . Subsequently when the retrieve event feed logic sends another request message such as for example in response to an interrupt from the polling logic the retrieve event feed logic sets the UPDATE SINCE value and incorporates the last provided TS or SN. The return event feed logic detects the UPDATE SINCE value and provides the TS or SN to the message processor which incorporates only updated status and event information into the status and event message as of the TS or SN. The retrieve event feed logic may continue to use the UPDATE SINCE value in subsequent requests so that only updated information is provided in subsequent status and event messages. In this manner the consumer logic remains updated while minimizing information transmitted on the network .

The polling method employed between the consumer logic and the producer logic provides significant benefits over interrupt methods employed by conventional physical access control systems. Rather than having to wait for one or more producers to send new information a consumer device simply polls one or more applicable producer devices for all available status and event information. For example the local controller LC polls the access controllers AC and AC for any stored status and event information. The consumer device then polls each of the applicable producer devices on a periodic basis to retrieve only updated information since the last poll. It may be desired however that certain events such as alarms or the like be sent immediately rather than waiting for the next poll event. In one embodiment the consumer logic further includes trigger logic coupled to the message processor . The message processor instructs the trigger logic to send a tickle request message to the producer logic which includes tickle logic responsive to each tickle request message . The tickle logic monitors the message processor for any new events according to the tickle request message . At any time the tickle logic detects new events as indicated by the tickle request message it sends a tickle information message to the trigger logic with aggregate information regarding the new events. In one embodiment the aggregate information within the tickle information message is not the status or event information itself but instead includes differential information such as the number of new events meeting the parameters of the corresponding tickle request message the time s the new events were added etc. When the trigger logic receives the tickle information message it instructs the retrieve event feed logic to send an immediate request message to the producer logic to retrieve the new information. In one embodiment the retrieve event feed logic further resets the polling logic .

In one embodiment the tickle request message may be a relatively simple message which requests that the tickle logic respond when any new status or event information is available by the message processor . It is appreciated however that much of the new information is either status or low priority event information such that the polling process may be sufficient. In another embodiment the tickle request message includes at least one event type value which specifies any subset of the types of new events that may occur. For example in one embodiment the event type value specifies alarms or certain types of alarms or any other types of high priority events so that the tickle logic sends the tickle information message only for those events indicated by the event type value . In response to the new event the retrieve event feed logic sends an asynchronous request message to request an immediate update including the new event s . In this manner the polling method including the UPDATE SINCE value along with the tickle method including the event type value ensures that the consumer logic remains up to date and is further informed immediately of predetermined and selected events e.g. high priority events such as alarms and the like. In one embodiment the tickle logic is configurable to respond only in the event of new information to respond after a predetermined period of time regardless of whether any new information is available or to respond after a configurable time period regardless of whether any new information is available or any combination of these methods.

In one embodiment the status and event documents and and or the messages transmitted between consumer devices and producer devices such as the messages RM RM SEM SEM etc. are configured according to a commonly accepted message syndication protocol such as the Extensible Markup Language XML or the HyperText Markup Language HTML or the like. In one embodiment the documents and or messages are implemented according to the Really Simple Syndication RSS protocol or according to any other suitable type of syntax for a syndicated feed. In an alternative embodiment the documents and or messages are configured according to the Atom Syndication Format employing the XML language for information feeds or the Atom Publishing Protocol APP which is a simple HTTP based protocol for creating and updating web based resources. As known to those skilled in the art the RSS and Atom protocols are well known for use to access web content such as for blogs web logs podcasts video blogs vlogs etc.

The use of RSS or Atom or any other open standard web feed data format for communicating status and event information in the physical access control system provides many advantages and benefits as compared to conventional standards and protocols used in conventional physical access control systems. RSS is a polling type of protocol in which the consumer logic polls one or more producers within the system for status and event information. In this manner the management console or any other device may be coupled anywhere in the system and used to access or produce status or event information at any time. The consumer logic is easily programmed to subscribe to any producer device including the producer logic or in the physical access control system . RSS feeds when used for newscasts or blogs or the like typically have a relatively low poll rate such as once every few minutes or hours or once a day. In the physical access control system the poll rate is increased to any suitable or desired rate such as every few seconds every one second or every sub second interval to maintain updated information.

The content of RSS messages are generally relatively simple and designed using simple text generally suitable for human consumption. The consumer logic and the producer logic are easily implemented or otherwise written in the system based on well known open standards. In this manner rather than having to provide a sophisticated management console with complicated and proprietary communication software a relatively simple modification of any type of controller server or console enables simple yet powerful status and event reporting within the physical access control system . As described further below the use of a commonly accepted message syndication protocol provides a significant benefit of facilitating integration such as combining or linking two more physical access control systems together adding new components to an existing system modifying an existing system infrastructure etc.

The illustrated embodiments also show extensions to RSS or the like without violating the basic syntax of RSS or the like. One extension is the tickle process using a separate tickle channel in which the tickle message is sent by the trigger logic which causes the tickle logic to send the tickle information message after a predetermined or configurable period of time and or in response to detection of new status and event information thereby provoking a new asynchronous poll by the retrieve event feed logic . Another extension is the request new message process in which new information is detected e.g. by new event detection logic or the like and communicated after a predetermined or configurable period of time and or in response to detection of new status and event information. Another extension is the additional arguments or values or parameters or switches or the like to identify particular information requested or to otherwise limit the amount of information incorporated such as the UPDATE SINCE value incorporated into the request message . As previously described the UPDATE SINCE value may be used with corresponding parameters e.g. time stamp sequence number etc. to filter or otherwise limit the amount of information provided in the response message. The event type value is used in a similar manner to limit the information monitored and the information returned such as higher priority alarms and the like. Another extension is illustrated by the session tracker logic which employs a session cache or the like in which the producer logic tracks the information that has been given to each of one or more consumer logic of consumer devices. Another extension is the rate of polling which is increased to a relatively high rate.

In a conventional physical access control system the addition of an NVR or other system components would require that the underlying physical access control system be modified to accommodate communications to or from the new component. As an example the access server AS and other devices would otherwise have to be modified or otherwise reconfigured to push status and event to the newly installed NVR. Furthermore the NVR or any other device newly installed would have to be compatible with the underlying system which was typically proprietary to certain physical access control system vendors providers or manufacturers.

In contrast the physical access control system according to various embodiments does not need further modification for integrating the NVR since the syntax and protocol associated with message communication is according to a commonly accepted message syndication protocol which is vendor neutral . As previously described each of the components in the physical access control system includes any combination of consumer or provider logic such as the consumer logic and the provider logic . As shown for example the access controller AC includes or otherwise interfaces at least producer P logic for gathering and producing status and event information associated with the door D. The local controller LC includes or otherwise interfaces consumer and producer CP logic for retrieving status and event information from the access controller AC and for providing the status and event information to any other consumer device in the system such as the access server AC and or the management controller . The access server AS also includes or otherwise interfaces consumer and producer logic for retrieving status and event information from the local controller LC and possibly other producer devices and for providing aggregated status and event information to any other consumer device in the system such as the management controller . The management controller includes or otherwise interfaces consumer C logic for retrieving status and event information from any producer device in the physical access control system as previously described.

As shown the NVR includes or is otherwise interfaced with consumer logic which is similar to the consumer logic previously described. The consumer logic enables the NVR to be subscribed to any relevant status and event information in the physical access control system such as for example the status and event information from the access controller AC and associated with the door D.

In one embodiment the consumer logic of the NVR periodically polls the producer and consumer logic of the access controller AC. In the event of an alarm associated with the door D the NVR receives the alarm event s and tags contemporaneous recorded information in the same manner as previously described. It is appreciated that the consumer logic of the NVR may further be subscribed to poll for status and event information from other consumer and producer devices aggregating status and event information associated with the door D in the event the access controller AC is unavailable or damaged or destroyed such as in the event of a security breach associated with the door D such as for example the local controller LC and or the access server AS. It is further appreciated that the consumer logic of the NVR may employ the tickle method and or request new event feed methods previously described if desired. It is appreciated that the physical access control system requires no modification to add the NVR other than a possible extension of the network to access the NVR . It is further appreciated that any modification of the NVR to incorporate the consumer logic for detecting relevant status and alarm information is relatively simple and achievable without requiring proprietary equipment or special knowledge or expertise.

A physical access control system according to one embodiment includes a network at least one access controller a producer device and a consumer device. Each access controller generates status and event information associated with at least one controlled physical barrier. The producer device includes producer logic which collects and stores the status and event information via the network. The consumer device includes consumer logic which periodically polls the producer logic via the network to retrieve the status and event information from the producer device. The producer logic and the consumer logic communicate via the network according to a commonly accepted message syndication protocol.

In one embodiment the commonly accepted message syndication protocol is the really simple syndication RSS protocol. In another embodiment the commonly accepted message syndication protocol is the Atom Publishing Protocol. In one embodiment the status and event information is communicated as an extensible markup language XML document.

In various embodiments the consumer logic periodically sends a request message via the network to poll the producer logic and the producer logic responds via the network with a status and event message incorporating the status and event information. The status and event information may include temporal information where the consumer logic inserts a temporal parameter into the request message to identify and retrieve updated information.

The producer logic may include a message processor and trickle logic. The message processor aggregates the status and event information into a status and event document. The tickle logic detects new information added to the status and event document and sends via the network a tickle information message to the consumer logic in response. The consumer logic may respond to the tickle information message by sending a request message via the network to poll the producer logic for the new information. The consumer logic may further include trigger logic which sends a tickle message via the network to the producer logic to activate the tickle logic. The status and event information may include different event types where the trigger logic may incorporate an event type value into the tickle message to identify at least one of the event types for the tickle logic to monitor.

The producer logic may include a message processor and return feed list logic. The message processor aggregates the status and event information. The return feed list logic receives a request message from the consumer logic and instructs the message processor to respond with a status and event message via the network incorporating the status and event information. The return feed list logic may include session tracker logic which tracks communication sessions and corresponding consumer devices sending request messages. The return feed list logic instructs the message processor to send complete status and event information via the network to a consumer device during a new session and instructs the message processor to send via the network updated status and event information to a consumer device during an existing session.

The consumer logic may include a consumer message processor which aggregates the status and event information and request new event feed list logic which sends via the network a request new message to the producer logic for requesting new information. The producer logic may include a producer message processor return feed list logic and new event detection logic. The producer message processor aggregates the status and event information. The return feed list logic instructs the message processor to send status and event messages via the network incorporating the status and event information to the consumer logic. The new event detection logic receives the request new message monitors the producer message processor for the new information and instructs the return feed list logic to cause a status and event message to be sent via the network from the producer message processor incorporating the new information.

Consumer logic is disclosed which is configured for coupling to a communication network of a physical access control system where the system includes a controlled physical barrier. In one embodiment the consumer logic includes retrieve logic and processor logic. The retrieve logic periodically sends a request message via the communication network to request status and event information associated with the controlled physical barrier. The processor logic receives a status and event message sent via the communication network incorporating the status and event information. The retrieve logic and the processor logic communicate via the communication network according to a commonly accepted message syndication protocol such as the RSS protocol or the Atom Publishing Protocol or the like. The consumer logic may include polling logic configurable to establish a polling time period for sending the request message.

The status and event information may include temporal information where the retrieve logic inserts a temporal parameter into the request message to request updated status and event information. The processor logic may receive a temporal value from the status and event message used to determine the temporal parameter.

The consumer logic may include trigger logic which sends a tickle request message via the communication network for requesting updated status and event information and which informs the processor logic that the updated status and event information is available upon receipt of a tickle information message received via the communication network. The status and event information may include temporal information where the retrieve logic inserts a temporal parameter into the request message to request the updated status and event information.

The consumer logic may include request logic which sends a request new message via the communication network to request updated status and event information. The consumer logic may include producer logic which sends the status and event information via the communication network in response to a request message received via the communication network.

Producer logic is disclosed which is configured for coupling to a communication network of a physical access control system which includes a controlled physical barrier. In one embodiment the producer logic includes a document return logic and processor logic. The document stores status and event information associated with the controlled physical barrier. The return logic receives a request message via the communication network to request the status and event information. The processor logic sends a status and event message via the communication network incorporating the status and event information in response to the request message. The return logic and the processor logic communicate via the communication network according to a commonly accepted message syndication protocol such as RSS or Atom Publishing Protocol or the like.

The status and event information may include temporal information where the return logic detects a temporal parameter within the request message and instructs the processor logic to filter the status and event information based on the temporal parameter. The producer logic may include tickle logic which receives a tickle request message via the communication network for requesting updated status and event information which monitors the processor logic and which sends a tickle information message via the communication network when the updated status and event information is available. The tickle logic may insert differential information into the tickle information message providing information about the updated status and event information.

The producer logic may include new event detection logic which receives a request new message via the communication network which monitors the processor logic for updated status and event information and which instructs the processor logic to send the status and event message incorporating the updated status and event information. The producer logic may include monitor and detection logic which senses the status and event information of the controlled physical barrier. The producer logic may include consumer logic which periodically requests the status and event information via the communication network

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred versions thereof other versions and variations are possible and contemplated. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that they can readily use the disclosed conception and specific embodiments as a basis for designing or modifying other structures for providing out the same purposes of the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following claims.

