---

title: Methods and apparatus for pulse generation used in characterizing electronic fuses
abstract: An integrated circuit device having at least one fuse capable of being blown in order to provide measurements of fuse current-voltage characteristics is provided. The integrated circuit device also provides at least one pulse generation circuit associated with the fuse and capable of generating a pulse to blow the fuse through one or more DC input signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07583125&OS=07583125&RS=07583125
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07583125
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071025
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 037 612 filed on Jan. 18 2005 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 295 057 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention is related to the field of integrated circuits and more particularly to techniques for characterizing a fuse through blowing the fuse and measuring the pre blow and post blow current voltage characteristics.

The technology referred to as e fuse combines software algorithms and microscopic electrical fuses to produce chips able to regulate and adapt to their own actions in response to changing conditions and system demands. More specifically an e fuse reroutes chip logic much the way highway traffic patterns can be altered by opening and closing new lanes. The use of an e fuse plays an important role in the post fabrication personalization of microelectronic circuitry.

The e fuse technology constantly monitors chip functionality and initiates corrective actions by tripping or blowing inexpensive simple electrical fuses that are designed into the chip. The blown fuses help the chip to control individual circuit speed manage power consumption and repair unexpected and potentially costly flaws. E fuses may be used to invoke redundancy to remove or replace defective bits in memory or to permanently select certain regions of circuitry to personalize chips for specific applications.

It is important that e fuses function flawlessly with appropriate values of pre blow and post blow resistance. In order to verify the proper operation of an e fuse characterization is achieved by measuring current voltage characteristics of the fuse then blowing the e fuse and measuring the current voltage characteristics of the fuse again. In order to blow the e fuse a controlled amount of current is delivered to the fuse for a fixed amount of time with specific control over the rise and fall times of the current. More specifically the fuse blowing process requires the application of a pulse having fast rise and fall times and a duration of one to a few hundred microseconds. Rise and fall times are preferably on the order of 100 picoseconds. Appropriate test structures may be incorporated into chip designs in order to allow for the monitoring of fuse properties such as the pre blow and post blow resistance.

Presently the characterization of e fuses requires a functional tester or a sophisticated external pulse generator unit along with an appropriate wide bandwidth probe card. In using a functional tester the function of characterizing e fuses must compete for the resources of the functional tester with a wide spectrum of traditional functional test and debug work. At best functional testing is performed on a small sampling of the hardware although the feedback for manufacturing and development purposes is not immediate. Alternatively the incorporation of pulse generator units and wide bandwidth probe cards for every inline parametric tester is very expensive.

The present invention provides techniques using direct current DC inputs and outputs for characterizing a fuse through blowing the fuse and measuring the pre blow and post blow current voltage characteristics.

For example in one aspect of the invention an integrated circuit device comprises at least one fuse capable of being blown in order to provide measurements of one or more current voltage characteristics of the fuse. The integrated circuit device also comprises at least one pulse generation circuit associated with the fuse and capable of generating a pulse to blow the fuse through one or more DC input signals.

In an additional aspect of the invention a pulse generation circuit of an integrated circuit device capable of blowing at least one fuse comprises a first latch that receives at least one DC input signal and creates a leading edge of a pulse. A resetable counter connected to a clock is in communication with the first latch and determines the width of the pulse. A second latch is in communication with the resetable counter and the first latch and creates a falling edge of the pulse.

In another aspect of the invention an apparatus for characterizing a fuse of an integrated circuit device comprises an integrated circuit device having at least one fuse and at least one pulse generation circuit. The pulse generation circuit is associated with the at least one fuse and is capable of generating a pulse to blow the at least one fuse through one or more direct current DC input signals. The apparatus also comprises measurement circuitry capable of measuring at least one pre blow current voltage characteristic of the fuse and at least one post blow current voltage characteristic of the fuse.

In an additional aspect of the invention a technique for characterizing a fuse of an integrated circuit device is provided. At least one pre blow current voltage characteristic of the fuse is measured. The fuse is blown with a pulse generation circuit of the integrated circuit device through at least one DC input signal and at least one post blow current voltage characteristic of the fuse is measured.

In another aspect of the invention a technique for blowing a fuse of an integrated circuit device is provided. At least one DC input signal is received at a pulse generation circuit of the integrated circuit device. A pulse is generated in the integrated circuit device at the pulse generation circuit as a result of the at least one DC input signal. The pulse is transmitted from the pulse generation circuit to a fuse of the integrated circuit device in order to blow the fuse.

Advantageously the present invention provides a circuit that allows for accurate characterization of e fuses without the need for functional testers or external pulse generators. The integrated circuit device of the present invention provides for the blowing of e fuses with a variable width on chip generated pulse and the measurement the pre blow and post blow fuse current voltage characteristics. The present invention is self timed and requires only DC inputs and outputs.

An additional advantage of the present invention is its ability to be implemented using a single metal layer. A single metal layer implementation enhances the versatility of the circuit by providing feedback on e fuse characteristics very early in the process. This approach also can simplify product design and system level design.

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

As will be illustrated in detail below the present invention is related to the field of integrated circuits and more particularly techniques for inline generation of a pulse for blowing and characterizing a fuse The term blow as used herein is intended to include the changing of a fuse from a low resistance state to a high resistance state and the resulting rerouting of digital circuitry. The term characterization as used herein is intended to include the blowing of e fuses and the measurement of the pre blow and post blow e fuse current voltage characteristics.

Referring initially to a circuit diagram illustrates a circuit for inline characterization of e fuses according to an embodiment of the present invention. The embodiment of the present invention illustrated in shows four independent e fuses first fuse FUSE second fuse FUSE third fuse FUSE and fourth fuse FUSE . Each of the fuses has an independent power pad V V and an independent fuse out output pad O O allowing current voltage characteristics of each e fuse to be individually measured before and after the fuse is blown. The current voltage characteristics of each e fuse may be measured through a measurement circuitry from which a small voltage may be applied to independent power pads V V and to which voltage is received from fuse out output pads O O. A fuse resistance may then be determined by calculating for example V V O I V where I V is the current flowing into the V terminal.

A single centrally located pulse generation circuit is used to blow each e fuse. More specifically OUT is used to blow first fuse and second fuse while OUT is used to blow third fuse and fourth fuse . Pulse generation circuit is disposed on the chip and is self timed in order to generate a variable width pulse similar to that from a functional tester or a sophisticated pulse generator unit but which instead utilizes DC inputs and DC outputs. DC Launch signal L Arm signal A Sel signal S a a and a are inputs to pulse generation circuit while P GOUT OUT and OUT are outputs of pulse generation circuit . The individual inputs and outputs will be described in greater detail below. The number of inverters and other circuit elements between pulse generation circuit and fuses may vary depending on the desired delay of the circuit.

An embodiment of the present invention may be implemented with two or more metal layers. Another embodiment of the present invention may be implemented in a single metal layer of the integrated circuit device. In this case crossovers may be accomplished with polysilicon or diffusion underpasses.

Referring now to a circuit diagram illustrates a pulse generation circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention. This may be considered a detailed description of pulse generation circuit of . Pulse generation circuit includes a ring oscillator that serves as a local clock. Ring oscillator is enabled by the SEL signal illustrated as S in . Ring oscillator provides the local clock output to a resetable counter .

In order to create a sharp leading edge of a pulse a first latch LATCHA is used. A 1 is preloaded into the data port of first latch via an ARM signal illustrated as A in . An ARM 1 signal also ensures that the resetable counter is in the reset mode. The output of first latch remains at 0 until a LAUNCH signal illustrated as L in and input to a clock of first latch is of sufficient magnitude. When LAUNCH signal reaches the sufficient magnitude the loaded 1 of first latch is passed to the output thereby creating a very sharp leading edge of a pulse for e fuse blowing purposes. This behavior is independent of the rise time or detailed shape of the launch signal itself.

The output from first latch turns off a reset signal and initiates counting of clock cycles by the resetable counter . Thus subsequent events are self timed with respect to the sharp leading edge of the pulse. Resetable counter counts to a time determined by decoder inputs a and a. Decoder inputs a and a are entered and transmitted through a decoder circuit . The time determined by these inputs is described in more detail below with regard to . Resetable counter includes four outputs OUT OUT OUT and OUT each to decoder circuit . Resetable counter and decoder circuit produce an output when a time determined by inputs a and a is reached. This time delay directly results in the width of the resulting pulse. Resetable counter is described in more detail below with regard to .

The output from first latch also results in the preloading of a 1 into a data port of a second latch LATCHB . When the determined time is reached in resetable counter and decoder circuit a signal is sent to a clock input of second latch awaiting with the preloaded 1 . An output from second latch is then inverted and combined with the output from first latch to form a falling edge of the pulse for blowing an e fuse. The pulse having the prescribed leading edge pulse width and failing edge is output to OUT and OUT for e fuse blowing purposes. For monitoring purposes the output pulse may be observed at the PGOUT terminal with input a set to 0 as will be also be described in more detail below.

Referring now to a table illustrates output pulse widths for various decoder inputs according to an embodiment of the present invention. As discussed regarding decoder inputs a and a determine the amount of time that resetable counter counts or more specifically the resulting width of the pulse for blowing an e fuse. As shown in the table this embodiment of the present invention illustrates four different times or resulting pulse widths. When both a and a are set to 1 a pulse width of 0.7 microseconds results. When only a is set to 1 a pulse width of 11 microseconds results. When only a is set to 1 a pulse width of 200 microseconds results. Finally when both a and a are set to 0 a pulse width of 3.2 ms results.

Referring now to a table illustrates sequential inputs for initializing the circuit and generating a pulse according to an embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment of the present invention input signals SEL ARM and LAUNCH are utilized in accordance with five time steps. In a first time step the SEL signal is set to 1 which turns on the ring oscillator. In a second time step the SEL and LAUNCH signals are both at 1 with ARM at 0. This establishes the output of LATCHA and the data input of LATCHB at 0. In a third time step only the SEL signal is at 1 with ARM and LAUNCH both at 0. The output of LATCHA and data input of LATCHB remain at 0. The ring oscillator is on and the counter is cyclically counting with the clock input to LATCHB alternating between 1 and 0. This condition establishes the output of LATCHB at 0 and completes the initialization of the pulse generation circuit. In a fourth time step the SEL and ARM signals are both set to 1 . Finally in a fifth time step the SEL ARM and LAUNCH signals are all set to 1 generating the pulse as previously described.

Referring now to a circuit diagram illustrates a resetable counter according to an embodiment of the present invention. This may be considered a detailed description of resetable counter in . Resetable counter includes 20 divide by 2 stages and four outputs. OUT occurs after stage OUT occurs after stage OUT occurs after stage and OUT occurs after stage . The individual stages are identical and a single stage is illustrated in according to an embodiment of the present invention. The design of single stage of resetable counter is that of a conventional ripple counter incorporating a master slave latch and robust reset circuitry. A data out signal dout from one stage becomes a clock in signal clkin for the next. For the first stage clkin and a ring oscillator input signal Rin are connected together shown as in . A reset signal from first latch connects RSETin terminal of the first stage of the resetable counter. Rn and RESTin of subsequent stages connect to Rout and RSETo respectively of the previous stage. The counter is held in reset mode when RESET 0 and it actively counts when RESET 1. The nominal period of the clock ring oscillator circuit in 90 nanometer partially depleted SOI technology used in this design is about 5.5 nanoseconds which leads to the pulse widths shown in the table of .

Referring now to a circuit diagram illustrates an e fuse and associated thick gate oxide negative channel field effect transistors NFETs according to an embodiment of the present invention. This may be considered a detailed description of first fuse second fuse third fuse or fourth fuse of . The output from pulse generation circuit OUT or OUT depending on the fuse drives a select terminal connecting to a gate of a switching NFET . A gate of a load NFET is preferably maintained at a power supply voltage VDD of the driver that drives the gate of the switching NFET. More specifically the gates of both thick oxide NFETs are driven with a voltage of magnitude VDD.

In order to blow a fuse an input voltage Vin is 3V which equals 2 VDD of this driver. Load NFET serves to ensure that a voltage of no greater than VDD appears across the gate oxide of either thick oxide NFET. A fuse out terminal connects to a dedicated output pad through a low capacitance 10 kiloOhm polysilicon resistor and thus minimally perturbs the situation during the fuse blowing operation.

With both NFETs turned on one can directly measure the DC current voltage characteristics of the e fuse before and after the blowing process. This is accomplished by applying a small voltage Vin and measuring the current through this circuit and the voltage drop across the fuse Vin V fuse out .

In an illustrative embodiment of the present invention a power supply VDD of magnitude approximately 1V may power pulse generation circuit . Separate power supplies VR and VL may power buffers between the pulse generation circuit and the fuses as well as the drivers that drive the thick oxide switching NFETs in the e fuse circuits. This allows one to vary the voltage applied to the thick oxide NFET gates independent of the central VDD. All three of these power sectors share a common ground. Second fuse and third fuse of share a common ground with VDD VR and VL while in this illustrative embodiment first fuse and fourth fuse have independent ground pads.

By setting a to 0 one can for diagnostic purposes directly measure the output pulse without applying it to any of the e fuse circuits. Also with a set to 0 the DC current voltage characteristics of the e fuse can be measured with both thick oxide NFETs turned on. Finally with a set to 1 a generated pulse will blow an e fuse that is powered up while not affecting unpowered e fuses.

In the embodiment described thus far the characteristics of four separate e fuses may be obtained. It may also be of interest to obtain the characteristics of a larger collection of e fuses in order to compile statistics of e fuse characteristics. In such a case an array of 2 n e fuses may be configured in parallel sharing a common power supply Vc and a common ground. Each individual e fuse circuit maintains the configuration shown in having a dedicated switching NFET non switching NFET and output tap point.

The outputs of an n input decoder are used to connect the gate of the non switching NFET of the selected e fuse to VDD with all others held at ground and to enable the path from the pulse generation circuit to the gate of the switching NFET of the selected fuse while the gates of all the other switching NFETs are held at ground . The inputs of the decoder may then be coordinated with those to the pulse generation circuit such that all fuses of the array are systematically blown with successive pulses from the pulse generation circuit. Before and after the blow process the decoder outputs can be used to allow individual measurement of the current voltage characteristics of each selected fuse. This may be accomplished as previously described with the circuit in with the additional features of decoder mediated e fuse NFET selection and decoder mediated multiplexer circuitry that connects only the selected fuse out tap point to a single common output terminal.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a fuse characterization methodology according to an embodiment of the present invention. The methodology begins at block where pre blow current voltage characteristics of a fuse are measured. In block the fuse is blown with a pulse generation circuit of the integrated circuit device through DC input signals. In block post blow current voltage characteristics of the fuse are measured terminating the methodology.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a fuse blowing methodology according to an embodiment of the present invention. This may be considered a detailed description of block in . The methodology begins at block where at least one DC input signal is received at a pulse generation circuit of an integrated circuit device. In block a pulse is generated at the pulse generation circuit as a result of the at least one DC input signal. In block the pulse is transmitted from the pulse generation circuit to a fuse of the integrated circuit device in order to blow the fuse thereby terminating the methodology.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a pulse generation methodology according to an embodiment of the present invention. This may be considered a detailed description of block of . The methodology begins at block where a sharp leading edge of the pulse is created through a first latch when a DC input signal reaches a defined magnitude. As described above specifically with regard to a 1 is preloaded into the first latch via an ARM signal and a LAUNCH signal is input to a clock of the first latch. When the LAUNCH signal reaches a sufficient magnitude the preloaded 1 is passed to the output creating a sharp leading edge of a pulse.

In block a resetable counter is initiated. As described above with regard to a resetable counter receives a clock signal from a ring oscillator and a reset signal from the first latch. When the reset signal is received the reset of the resetable counter is turned off and the local clock of the resetable counter is initiated. Events are timed with respect to the time of the sharp leading edge of the pulse.

In block a time determined by one or more decoder inputs is counted to by the resetable counter. Decoder inputs are entered and transmitted through a decoder circuit. The resetable counter provides four outputs to the decoder circuit so that a time prescribed by the inputs may be counted to before a signal is output thereby terminating the pulse.

In block a falling edge of the pulse is created through a second latch when a signal is received from the resetable counter thereby terminating the methodology. The output from the first latch results in the preloading of a 1 in the second latch. When a signal is received from resetable counter the preloaded 1 is output and inverted. The output from second latch is then combined with the output from first latch to create the falling edge.

Although illustrative embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

