---

title: System and method for remotely controlling a camera
abstract: A system and method for remotely controlling a camera may include a telephony device communicatively coupled to a data network. The telephony device comprises at least one module adapted to generate a control signal in response to receiving a user command associated with dialing of an emergency telephone number. A camera may be adapted to start capturing images in response of receiving the control signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07916174&OS=07916174&RS=07916174
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 07916174
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071218
---
Various cameras may be connected to a network and used as surveillance cameras. For example surveillance cameras have been implemented in areas such as homes offices banks casinos airports and convenience stores. Sometimes surveillance cameras may be monitored that is a person may be assigned to watch images captured by the surveillance cameras in real time as the images are captured by the cameras. Also images from surveillance cameras may be recorded in long term storage media e.g. video tapes . Typically there is no event worth monitoring and or recording. As a result resources e.g. human video tapes are often wasted.

Recently some cameras have been equipped with motion sensors thereby enabling the cameras to capture images when triggered by motion. However normal movement by any object in the view of motion sensor may trigger the camera. Thus the motion sensor technology does not completely solve the deficiency of wasted resources. There is a need for activating e.g. starting a surveillance camera and monitoring the images from the surveillance camera only when an emergency occurs.

The description below describes servers telephony devices and network elements that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly shown others are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers network elements telephony devices etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

The telephony device may be a device capable of being used as a telephone to make telephone calls. The telephony device may be communicatively coupled to the telephony service provider via the telephony connection . The telephony service provider may be communicatively coupled to the emergency responder e.g. police fire department medical crime hotline security company by the telephony connection . Thus the telephony device may establish a telephone session by dialing an emergency telephone number of the emergency responder . The emergency telephone number may be for example 911 77 local police state police fire department etc. The telephony connection may be a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. In one exemplary embodiment the telephony connection may be a conventional land based telephony connection e.g. Public Switched Telephone Network . The telephony device may be adapted to make telephone calls through the conventional land based telephony connection. In another exemplary embodiment the telephony connection may be a packet based network e.g. ethernet TCP IP network . The telephony device may be adapted to make telephone calls through the packet based network e.g. Voice Over IP VOIP phone . In one or more exemplary embodiments the telephony device may be a computer adapted to make telephone calls e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer .

In addition the telephony device may be communicatively coupled to the data service provider via the data connection . That is the telephony device may be used as a data communication device to communicate data through the data service provider e.g. a broadband data service provider . For example the telephony device may be capable of communicating data packets via a data connection . That is the telephony device may have an integrated component to handle data packets such as but not limited to data packets based on ethernet protocols or Internet Protocol IP . In an exemplary embodiment the telephony device may implement a plurality of modules as shown in . One or more modules of the plurality of modules may handle data packets as needed. The data connection may be wired e.g. unshielded twisted pair optic fiber wireless e.g. IEEE 802.11 network bluetooth connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

The data service provider may provide a data gateway service for the telephony device . That is through the data service provider the telephony device may be communicatively coupled to the data network . The data network may be for example a packet switched network e.g. Internet or World Wide Web or any data network that is capable of transmitting multimedia information e.g. a surveillance network used by authorities to monitor cameras at remote locations . The multimedia information may be for example images or audio signals and may be transmitted in analog or digitized format. The data network may be a wired network a wireless network or a combination of wired and wireless networks. In one embodiment a wired connection may include long range optical data communications local area network based protocols wide area networks and or other similar applications. In another embodiment a wireless connection may include long range wireless radio local area wireless network such as 802.11 based protocols wireless wide area network such as WiMax infrared bluetooth and or other similar applications. Other networks may also be utilized for connecting each of the various devices systems and or servers. Furthermore data and or multimedia content may be transmitted via cable FiOS satellite or other forms of signal transmission. The emergency responder may also be communicatively coupled to the data network .

In one or more exemplary embodiments the data service provider may also be the telephony service provider . In these embodiments the telephony connection may be carried by the data connection . For example the telephony device may be a VOIP telephone and the telephony connection may be a connection over the data connection e.g. a broad band Internet connection .

The camera may be communicatively coupled to the telephony device via the camera connection . In one exemplary embodiment the camera may be a digital camera. That is images captured by the camera may be digitalized for storage and or transmission. In another exemplary embodiment the camera may be a non digital camera. That is images captured by the camera may be stored and or transmitted in analog format. In one or more exemplary embodiments the camera may be capable of capturing images continuously e.g. streaming video . In other exemplary embodiments the camera may be capture images by snap shots e.g. one shot at a time . The camera connection may be wired e.g. unshielded twisted pair Universal Serial Bus USB cable IEEE 1394 FireWire wireless e.g. IEEE 802.11 network bluetooth network or a combination of wired and wireless connection. In one exemplary embodiment the camera may be an Internet Protocol IP camera and may be communicatively coupled to the telephony device by a packet based connection e.g. ethernet or wireless ethernet .

The camera may be adapted to be activated e.g. start capturing images by a control signal from the telephony device . In one exemplary embodiment an activation control signal may remotely turn on the camera and start the camera. In another exemplary embodiment the camera may have a sleep mode. That is the camera may have an operational mode in which the camera is powered on but does not capture any images In this case the activation control signal may activate the camera to start capturing images. For example the camera may be connected to a home telephone e.g. telephony device via the camera connection and the camera may be turned off or in the sleep mode. If an emergency situation occurs the user may use the telephony device to contact the emergency responder . For example the telephony device may receive a user command associated with the dialing of an emergency telephone number such as 911. In response to the user command the telephony device may generate a control signal and transmit the control signal to the camera via the camera connection . The control signal may activate the camera and the camera may start capturing images. In one exemplary embodiment the user command of dialing 911 may be a user pushing buttons for the digits 9 1 1. In another exemplary embodiment the user command may be the user pushing a speed dial button to dial a pre stored telephone number 911. In yet another exemplary embodiment the user command may be a voice command causing the telephony device to dial the emergency telephone number.

Further the camera may be adapted to send captured images to the telephony device in real time e.g. as quickly as possible . For example once activated the camera may establish a communication session with the telephony device . Through the communication session the camera may send captured images to the telephony device as soon as they are captured.

In one exemplary embodiment the telephony device may be registered to the monitoring service provider . The monitoring service provider may host the media server which may be communicatively coupled to the data network . Upon receiving a user command associated with the dialing of an emergency telephone number the telephony device may establish a communication session with the media server in addition to activating the camera . The telephony device may transmit the received images from the camera to the media server as soon as they are received. Access to the media server via the data network may be provided to the emergency responder . Therefore the telephony device may relay the captured images from the camera to the monitoring service provider e.g. the media server in real time. Thus the emergency responder or the monitoring service provider may watch the images as they are being captured with little delay e.g. network latency . And the emergency responder may establish a communication session with the monitoring service provider e.g. the media server to watch the images live through the data network . The media server may be for example a computer server or other hardware components capable of broadcasting images.

In one or more exemplary embodiments communications between the emergency responder and the monitoring service provider and between the monitoring service provider and the telephony device may be encrypted. Controlling access to a networked server and encryption of the network communication are well known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the media server may be hosted by the emergency responder . The telephony device may establish a communication session with the media server of the emergency responder and transmit images from the camera directly to the media server of the emergency responder through the data service provider . In these exemplary embodiments the monitoring service provider may not be necessary. The communication between the emergency responder and the telephony device may be encrypted.

In another exemplary embodiment the media server may be set up by the data service provider . The telephony device may establish a communication session with the media server and transmit images from the camera to the media server at data service provider . Access to the media server over the network may be given to the emergency responder . Therefore the telephony device may relay the captured images from the camera to the media server of data service provider in real time. The emergency responder may establish a communication session with the data service provider to receive the images transmitted in real time through the data network . Similarly the communication between the emergency responder and the data service provider and between the data service provider and the telephony device may be encrypted.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the telephony device may establish a communication session with the media server and or transmitting images from the camera to the data network only in response to receiving the user command of dialing the emergency telephone number. Therefore network resources may be preserved before the camera is activated.

Also in one or more exemplary embodiments the camera may also be capable of capturing audio signals in addition to images. In these exemplary embodiments audio signals may be captured by the camera concurrently with images and transmitted concurrently with the images.

Further in one or more exemplary embodiments telephony device may only transmit partial data. For example the camera may be capable of capturing images continuously with 24 frames per second. All images may be stored transmitted to the telephony device . However the media processing controller may be adapted to transmit only 4 frames per second to the media server . Therefore less bandwidth may be used and a lower bandwidth connection to a media server may be suffice. It should be noted that this capability may be implemented on the camera . That is the camera may only transmit partial data to the telephony device .

Moreover in one or more exemplary embodiments the camera may serve as the media server . In these embodiments the camera may be connected to the data network via a wired a wired connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example the camera may be an IP camera. The camera may establish a TCP IP socket communication session with the emergency responder and transmit images to the emergency responder through the TCP IP socket connection. TCP IP socket communication is well known in the art.

The user interface may comprise one or more components to receive user inputs for example a keypad a plurality of buttons or voice commands. Also the user interface may comprise one or more components to display information to user e.g. a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . In one exemplary embodiment a LCD touch screen may be used to accept user inputs and display information to user. It should be appreciated that other suitable input output devices and components may be used instead of the LCD touch screen.

The application modules may comprise a plurality of modules which may include a call control statemachine a utility controller a camera controller a telephone event handler a network controller and a media processing controller . These modules may be software modules implemented in any suitable programming languages e.g. C C Java . The communication between these modules may be implemented in procedure calls as known in the art. Further the application modules may be on top of layers of the embedded operating system and the OEM device driver . The embedded operating system may be an embedded computer operating system e.g. an embedded Linux operating system or a Windows CE . The OEM device drivers may be OEM device drivers for hardware such as but not limited to serial port wireless e.g. IEEE 802.11 Ethernet USB IEEE 1394 FireWire. The embedded computer operating system and OEM device drivers are well known in the art.

The utility controller of the application modules may be a module adapted to control peripheral devices connected to the telephony device . The utility controller may work with a camera controller to control a camera communicatively coupled to the telephony device . The camera controller may be a module implemented to control the camera. The camera controller may sote information about the camera. For example information about the connection to the camera e.g. IP connection USB connection serial port connection may be maintained by the camera controller . Also features of the camera may also be stored such as but not limited to resolution of the camera zooming capability. Further status of the camera may be maintained such as but not limited to connected by not activated powered down live transmission of media. In one exemplary embodiment the camera controller may communicate with a connected camera through the utility controller for connections that are not based on TCP IP protocols e.g. serial connection USB connection .

The network controller may be a module implemented to control packet based network communications. For example the network controller may implement one or more stacks of TCP IP for IP network communications. TCP IP and network controller implemented for IP network communications are well known in the art. The camera controller may use network controller to communicate with a camera that may be connected by ethernet or wireless ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.11 .

The call control statemachine may be a module implementing a statemachine. That is the call control statemachine may define a plurality of states e.g. idle dial tone dialing ringing connected . The call control statemachine may also define one or more triggering events to trigger the call control statemachine to change from a current state to a second state. For example picking up a handset or pushing a button may be a triggering event from idle to dial tone. Other triggering events may be defined to trigger the state change from dial tone to dialing from dialing to connected from connected to idle from idle to ringing ringing to connected and connected to idle.

The telephone event handler may be a module implemented to provide triggering events to the call control statemachine . For example when a user dials a telephone number by pushing a series of buttons on a keypad or a touch screen the telephone event handler may capture the telephone number being dialed by the user. The telephone event handler may generate a triggering event and transmit the triggering event to the call control statemachine . The triggering event may comprise the telephone number being dialed. The call control statemachine may change from the current state to another state e.g. from idle to dialing .

The call control statemachine may be adapted to communicate with the utility controller . Communications may be implemented as a procedure call like previously described. For example a dialed telephone number may be an emergency telephone number of the emergency responder . After receiving a triggering event from the telephone event handler the call control statemachine may send a message about the emergency telephone number being dialed to the utility controller . The message may trigger the utility controller to activate a camera communicatively coupled to the telephony device .

The utility controller may communicate the request to the camera controller . The camera controller may determine the state of the camera e.g. in sleep mode or off . If the camera is connected via an IP connection the camera controller may send a command to activate the camera to the network controller . The network controller may work with the embedded operating system and an OEM device driver to activate the camera. If the camera is connected via a non IP connection e.g. serial USB the camera controller may send a command to activate the camera to the utility controller . The utility controller may work with the embedded operating system and an OEM device driver to activate the camera.

The utility controller may further establish a communication session with a data network. As previously described the telephony device may be connected via a data connection to the data service provider . If the media server e.g. by data service provider or by monitoring service provider is available the utility controller may establish a communication session with the media server . In the previous example the message about dialing the emergency telephone number may also trigger the utility controller to work with network controller to establish a communication session to the media server over the data connection . In one exemplary embodiment a TCP IP socket connection with the media server may be established by the network controller . TCP IP socket connections are well known in the art.

After the camera is activated to capture images the camera controller may request the camera to transmit captured images. The media processing controller may be a module implemented to process the received images. In one or more exemplary embodiments the media processing controller may be programmed to communicate with the media server . For example the media processing controller may establish a communication session with the media server over the data connection the media processing controller may relay the received images to the media server . If the communication session has not been established the media processing controller may buffer e.g. store temporarily the images received and request the utility controller to establish the communication session. In one or more exemplary embodiments the media processing controller may wait for the media server to request the captured images before transmitting the images. In these exemplary embodiments establishing a communication session between the telephony device and the media server may serve as a notification to the that live images may be available. And the live images may be transmitted to the media server upon request. For example request and response of live images may be implemented in TCP IP socket communication.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the application modules may define an application programming interface API . The API may be a set of procedure calls that an OEM device driver may implement to enable a peripheral device to respond to control commands. For example the telephony device may define a set of procedure calls that a camera vendor may implement for the vendor s cameras to work with the telephony device . The procedure calls may determine how control signals e.g. activation zooming are to be sent from the telephony device to the camera and how the camera respond to the control signals.

At block a control signal to activate a camera may be generated in response to receiving a user command associated with the dialing of an emergency telephone number. For example a telephony device may receive a user command associated with the dialing of an emergency telephone number. In one exemplary embodiment the telephony device may have an LCD touch screen as described previously and the user command may be a button push on the LCD screen. In response to the user command a control signal may be generated by the telephony device . One exemplary embodiment was described with reference to . For example the telephony event handler may capture the dialed telephone number and trigger a state change in the call control statemachine . The call control statemachine may cause the utility controller to activate a communicatively coupled camera. The utility controller may use the camera controller to generate a control signal for the camera.

At block the control signal may be transmitted to the camera. The control signal may activate a camera communicatively coupled to the telephony device and may cause the camera to start capturing images. For example the telephony device may transmit the control signal to the camera to activate the camera and cause the camera to start capturing images. The control signal may be transmitted over the camera connection which may be a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections as discussed above with reference to .

At block images from the camera may be received. For example the telephony device may establish a communication session with the camera after the camera has been activated. Images captured by the camera may be transmitted from the camera to the telephony device through the communication session.

At block a request to transmit the received images to a media server may be received. For example the telephony device may establish a communication session with the media server . In one exemplary embodiment the media server may be maintained by a monitoring service provider . The media server may send a request to the telephony device to request images captured by the camera . The telephony device may be connected to the media server via the data connection and the data network . The data connection and the data network have been described in detail with reference to .

At block images may be transmitted to the media server. For example through the communication session established between the telephony device and the media server the telephony device may transmit the received images from the camera to the media server . The emergency responder may connect to the media server and use a media player client to view the captured images in real time. In one exemplary embodiment the emergency responder may be connected to the media server via a TCP IP connection. The media player client used by the emergency responder may be an Internet web browser. As described previously with reference to access to the live images may be restricted and the communication between the emergency responder and the media server may be encrypted.

At block a request to manipulate the camera may be received. For example the camera may be remotely controlled. To facilitate capturing relevant images the emergency responder may send one or more requests to manipulate the camera such as zooming changing angles. The one or more requests may be sent to the media server . The media server may then forward the one or more requests to the telephony device through the communication session between the telephony device and the media server .

At block control signal manipulating the camera may be transmitted to the camera. For example in response to the one or more requests to manipulate the camera the telephony device may generate one or more control signals to manipulate the camera as requested. The one or more control signal may be generated and transmitted in accordance with the set of APIs between the telephony device and the camera as described previously with reference to .

While the embodiments described above may be directed to a telephony device and a camera to facilitate activating the camera in response to an emergency telephone call it should be appreciated to one of ordinary skill in the art that a plurality of cameras may be connected to the telephony device and any one or combination of the plurality of cameras may be activated by the method and system described herein. Additionally it should be appreciated that the camera may capture audio signals as well as images and audio signals may be transmitted relayed as well.

In the preceding specification various embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

