---

title: Interactive computer system for providing television schedule information
abstract: The present invention provides systems and methods for providing television schedule and/or listing information to a viewer, and for allowing the viewer to link, search, select and interact with information in a remote database, e.g., a database on the internet. The television schedule and/or listing information can be displayed on a variety of viewer interfaces, such as televisions screens, computer monitors, PCTV screens and the like. The television schedule and/or listing information may be stored on the viewer's computer, television, PCTV, or a remote server (e.g., a website), or the television schedule and/or listing information may be downloaded from a remote database to the viewer's computer, television or PCTV.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08112776&OS=08112776&RS=08112776
owner: Starsight Telecast, Inc.
number: 08112776
owner_city: Fremont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070820
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 147 802 filed Jun. 7 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 047 127 filed Jan. 14 2002 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 837 025 filed Apr. 11 1997 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 388 714 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Nos. 60 022 826 filed on Jul. 26 1996 and 60 015 648 filed on Apr. 19 1996 and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 537 650 filed Oct. 2 1995 the complete disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for providing information to television viewers and more particularly to systems and methods for allowing the viewer to retrieve initiate a subscription to search select and interact with television schedule and or listing information located in a remote database computer network or on line service e.g. a network server on the Internet or World Wide Web.

As the number of television stations in a metropolitan area or on a cable network has increased the number of programs of potential interest that are presented to a viewer has risen dramatically. With the use of dish antennas capable of receiving direct satellite signals the multitude of programs available to the viewer has further increased. Consequently television schedule systems that are provided directly on the viewer s television screen have been developed to assist the viewer in sorting through these various programs and determining which programs to watch or record. One such television schedule system is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 353 121 Young et al. the complete disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In one embodiment of Young the television schedule includes a series of menu screens having an array of cells corresponding to different television programs. The viewer may scroll through the cells to view which television programs are being presented on various channels at various times. In addition the viewer may select certain cells to obtain more information on the associated program or to pull up other submenus with additional options.

The recent development of television schedule systems such as the above described patent to Young have created many new challenges and opportunities. One such challenge and opportunity is to provide viewers with additional information associated with a particular program in the television guide. As a television viewer is browsing through the television programs he or she may wish to obtain more information relating to specific areas of interest or concerns associated with the show such as the actors actresses other movies released during the same time period or travel packages or promotions that may be available through primary secondary or third party vendors. Offering this type of information to the television viewer can be difficult however because there are currently hundreds of different programs broadcast every day and eventually there will be an unlimited number of programs available both current and digitally archived. In addition the available information changes at a rapid pace which makes it even more difficult to provide this information in present television schedule guides.

In television broadcasting it may also be desirable to interact with the viewer. There are many commercials and programs which request viewer action such as purchasing an advertised product making a monetary contribution responding to a survey answering a question or participating in contests with other viewers for example. One problem with this existing system is that it is often difficult to motivate a viewer to request information or send in a contribution after the broadcast of the commercial or program. Viewers will often forget the advertisement or simply lose motivation to spend money or request information after the commercial or program is over. Another problem is that companies sponsoring these commercials or programs would often like to provide their viewers with further information if the viewers could be identified or if the viewer requests the additional information. Thus it would be desirable to provide a ready and efficient method to facilitate an exchange of information between television viewers and producers promoters and advertisers during the broadcast of the commercial or program.

The present invention provides systems and methods for providing television schedule information on a visual interface and for allowing the viewer to retrieve initiate a subscription to search select and interact with information located in a remote database computer network or on line service such as a network server on the Internet or World Wide Web. The television schedule information can be displayed on a variety of visual interfaces such as televisions screens computer monitors PCTV screens and other interactive display devices. The television schedule information may be stored on the viewer s computer television PCTV or a remote server e.g. a website or the television schedule information may be downloaded from a remote database or computer network to the viewer s computer television or PCTV and other interactive display devices. The present invention also provides systems and methods for allowing the viewer to navigate and interact with a program guide that is displayed for example on the viewer s television screen. The program guide will usually include a schedule and or listing information area that depicts the programs that are available from a directory library or archival source or being presented on each channel at each time during the day week or month. With an input device such as a remote control device pointing device mouse keyboard microphone or the like the viewer can browse through the schedule and or listing information area and or obtain more information about programs of particular interest.

In one embodiment the present invention includes an interactive computer system which provides television schedule and or listing information. All or portions of this television schedule information may be provided to a television system a computer monitor a PCTV and other interactive display devices. The interactive computer system can use the television schedule information to control various peripheral devices in the television system. Peripheral devices are for example televisions video tape recorder s set top boxes including cable boxes digital storage devices and the like. In the preferred embodiment a memory located within a personal computer stores a computer program and received data. These data include the television schedule information and eventually the digital files of the programs themselves. A processor uses the computer program to organize the television schedule and or listing information into a desired format. The television schedule and or listing information is then displayed on a television screen or on a computer monitor display in the desired format.

The present invention provides systems and methods for providing television schedule and or listing information to a viewer and for allowing the viewer to link search select retrieve initiate a subscription to and interact with information in a remote database computer network or on line server e.g. a network server on the Internet or World Wide Web. The television schedule and or listing information can be displayed on a variety of viewer interfaces such as televisions screens computer monitors PCTV screens and other interactive display devices. The television schedule and or listing information may be stored on the viewer s computer television PCTV or a remote server e.g. a website or the television schedule and or listing information may be downloaded from a remote database or computer network and or internet broadcast to the viewer s computer television or PCTV. Suitable television schedule and or listing information systems or video guides that can be used with the present. invention are described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 353 121 5 479 266 the complete disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The systems and methods of the present invention may also be useful with video guides available under the name of SuperGuide from The SuperGuide Corporation of Shelby N.C.

In one embodiment the invention incorporates an interactive computer system which assists the viewer in utilizing television schedule and or listing information and linking with a database to search and retrieve initiate a subscription to information. Preferably the information is contextually related to television programs within the television schedule and or listing information. Referring to the drawings in detail wherein like elements are indicated by like numerals a representative television schedule and or listing information system for use with the contextual linking system and method of the present invention is illustrated in . As shown in schedule system includes a computer system coupled to a television system . Computer system includes a standard computer which is for example any available personal computer e.g. IBM compatible Macintosh and the like . Computer can also be located within a set top box e.g. a DSS box . Computer contains a hard drive a processor and a disk input for providing computer with various additional software. An input device allows a viewer to interact with computer and or a television schedule guide described below and illustrated in . Line is connected to an available serial parallel or other data port on computer . This line is used to connect other devices components o computer .

In another embodiment computer system may be combined with television system to form a PCTV. In this embodiment the computer will usually include a processor that may be used solely to run the program guide and associated software or the processor may be configured to run other applications such as word processing graphics or the like. The computer will usually be incorporated into the television set so that the television display can be used as both a television screen and a computer monitor. Alternatively the television may be incorporated into the computer so that the computer monitor performs this dual function. Usually the PCTV will include a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a remote control device similar to the one described above. However these input devices may be combined into a single device that inputs commands with keys a trackball pointing device scrolling mechanism voice activation or a combination thereof.

Television system includes a television which may be any commercially available television and a user input device . Television system may or may not include a video tape recorder VCR . In this embodiment VCRs and are coupled to television through connections and respectively. These VCRs and can be for example any commercially available VCRs or any other type of recording and or storage device analog or digital . Input device allows the viewer to interact with television VCR and or VCR . Input device may be a remote control keyboard mouse a voice activated interface or the like. A suitable input device for use with the present invention is described in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 022 826 filed Jul. 26 1996 and Ser. No. 60 015 648 filed Apr. 19 1996 the complete disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. A line is used to connect other devices to VCR . Other devices can also be connected in series between VCR and television via line . With this configuration computer or computer system and television or television system can be located in different rooms within a private residence or a commercial building.

In one embodiment a computer program provided on diskettes a CD ROM or other medium contains the software needed for receiving organizing and displaying data for the television schedule guide. These diskettes are inserted in disk input and the software for these diskettes is stored within computer on hard drive or on another mass storage location. This action can be performed by for example the user or a serviceperson. The computer program can also be provided access download and or automatically upgrade for example via downloading from a satellite transmission through the internet or other on line service or transmission through another type of land line e.g. coax cable telephone line optical fiber or wireless technology e.g. Richochet .

In addition to the computer program data for the basic schedule information and other related data e.g. data relating to a particular show are needed for the generation and maintenance of the television schedule and or listing information guide. These data are received in the preferred embodiment via line they can also be provided via a satellite broadcast from satellite or wireless technology e.g. Richochet . Additionally the television schedule and or listing information and related data can be sent directly to television via satellite or wireless technology e.g. Richochet . In this arrangement the television schedule information and related data does not have to be transmitted from computer system to television system .

In one embodiment line is a telephone line which provides access to the internet or other on line service via for example a regular modem or direct modem access to a schedule and or listing information provider. The schedule and or listing information data are then provided to the viewer from a remote database via the internet or other on line service or directly from the service provider. As stated above line can also be for example coax cable optical fiber or any other land line which can provide data to computer or wireless technology e.g. Richochet . The software program saved on hard drive then utilizes the data received on line to generate a television schedule and or listing information guide. The user can access this generated television schedule and or listing information guide when desired.

The user via input device can scroll throughout the television schedule information provided in the grid guide. User input device can be for example a keyboard with arrow keys a computer pointing device e.g. a mouse or trackball touchpad etc. or a voice recognition input. By utilizing user input device a user can sort mix and do a special customized line up of channels within the television schedule guide displayed on computer screen . In addition the user can automatically tune to a desired program or can select different programs for automatic recording and or retrieval and digital storage. For more information on automatic tuning and automatic recording see U.S. Pat. No. 4 706 121 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 423 411 this patent and this patent application are like the present patent application assigned to Starsight Telecast Inc. U.S. Pat. No. 4 706 121 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 423 411 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

In another embodiment of the present invention the computer is equipped with a television video board that contains a tuner. When this television video board is located in computer a computer user can view selected television programs shows on computer monitor . Therefore when a user selects a television program for automatic tuning the television video board is tuned to the channel carrying the selected television program such that the selected television program is automatically displayed on computer monitor .

In the embodiment of the present invention shown in two programs provided at the same time can be automatically recorded because two VCRs and are present. The user need only select two programs for recording and the present invention will automatically cause the programs to be recorded when they are aired in an unattended fashion. The user can also directly select which device or devices will be recording or tuning for each selected program. For example the user may wish to have M.A.S.H. recorded by VCR and I LOVE LUCY recorded by VCR . In this example the computer software on hard drive at the program start time 1 tunes VCR to the channel carrying I LOVE LUCY 2 turns VCR on and 3 activates the record function on VCR . If I LOVE LUCY starts at the same time as M.A.S.H. the software also at approximately the same time 1 tunes VCR to the channel carrying M.A.S.H. 2 turns VCR on and 3 activates the record function on VCR . At the program end time for M.A.S.H. the software turns off the record function and then turns off VCR . The same sequence takes place for VCR when the program end time for I LOVE LUCY occurs.

In the preferred embodiment two electronic devices are used to provide the schedule control system herein. These two electronic devices allow for the interaction between computer system and television system . The first electronic device is a computer accessory and the second is a video tape recorder controller connector VCR connector . The second electronic device can also be a television connector set top box connector and the like.

Processor also located within computer accessory uses the software in the computer system to provide memory with these key parameters. Memory is a random access memory RAM and RF transmitter is for example similar to a transmitter provided in a portable telephone or RF wireless headphones. RF transmitter may be substituted with for example IR emitters modulated light signals i.e. signal sent through optical fibre or even a hardwire connection. In the preferred embodiment RF transmitter is used in conjunction with a remotely located VCR connector to communicate parameters needed for automatic tuning and or automatic recording to television system . Processor uses clock and memory to provide the information needed for transmission by RF transmitter .

For example if a user decides to tune the television to a certain program which is presently available or to schedule the television to be tuned to a certain program at a future time the user moves the cursor with user input device to the desired show within computer screen and enters it enter key with a keyboard or clicking with a mouse . The information is provided to computer accessory via line and then automatically transmitted via RF transmitter to RF receiver . IR driver and IR emitter then take the information from RF receiver and immediately tune the television to the channel providing the selected television program. More than one IR driver may be used for the present invention. For example one IR driver may be used for television and another IR driver may be used for VCR . In addition computer accessory and VCR connector or the alternative devices which provide their functions as described below can be located in different rooms within a private residence or a commercial building.

If the user has selected a program from the computer for recording on VCR at the selected program s start time the information for activating and recording on the VCR is automatically sent from RF receiver through VCR connector to VCR via line . Thus in the preferred embodiment at the start time of the selected program 1 the VCR is turned on 2 the tuner or an external device is tuned to the channel carrying the selected program and 3 the record function of the VCR is activated. Later when the program end time occurs the record function of the VCR is turned off and the VCR is turned off. In this arrangement IR driver and IR emitter are not used.

In the preferred embodiment when IR driver and IR emitter are used they act in the same way that a remote control would act to control the other peripheral devices e.g. television VCR and the like within television system . For example if two programs occurring at the same time are selected for automatic recording IR driver and IR emitter are used to 1 tune the tuner on a second VCR to the channel carrying the selected program etc. For additional information on how an IR emitter can be used to act as a remote control see U.S. Pat. No. 5 151 789 to Young which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

In another embodiment of the present invention VCR connector is connected in series between VCR and television via line . In this arrangement IR driver and IR emitter are not needed because information received by RF receiver can be sent to either VCR or television via line . For example line is used to transmit the data for automatic tuning. When a user selects a television program for immediate viewing a tuning command for changing the television tuner to the channel carrying the desired program is sent from RF transmitter to RF receiver . Processor then sends this tuning command from RF receiver to television via line .

In yet another embodiment of the present invention IR driver and IR emitter are located in computer accessory see . When this configuration is present VCR connector is not needed. For example when a desired television program is selected for automatic tuning IR driver and IR emitter work in conjunction to tune television to the channel carrying the desired program. Similarly when a desired television program is selected for automatic recording IR driver and IR emitter at the desired program start time 1 tune the VCR to the channel carrying the desired program etc. This arrangement can also be used when multiple desired television programs airing at the same time are selected for automatic recording. This is done in the same manner as described above. Also if desired the data providing the television schedule information to computer can be organized into a desired format and then transmitted via computer accessory to television for immediate display on television . For automatic display on television in this arrangement computer accessory must contain on screen display generator OSD .

In yet another embodiment of the present invention computer accessory is located inside computer see RF transmitter location in computer and or VCR connector is located inside for example VCR or television . The location of computer accessory and VCR connector is not critical because the IR emitter allows for remote control of all of the peripheral devices.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the components of both computer accessory and VCR connector are located inside computer . Therefore RF transmitter and RF receiver are not required. Computer most likely has an internal battery and clock provided so battery and clock may not be needed. Memory can be provided by hard drive . Processor may not be needed because processor can perform its functions. In this embodiment IR driver and IR emitter provide the tuning and recording parameters to television and VCRs and see for placement of IR driver and IR emitter within computer . Similarly if computer contains television video board in this arrangement a selected television program can be viewed on computer screen . Additionally a selected television program can be stored within computer in a memory or mass storage device e.g. hard drive disk or tape . Thus no need would exist for the transmission of parameters needed for automatic tuning and automatic unattended recording and the associated IR devices and would not be present. Finally computer television system VCR and all additional electronic devices could be on a home network. In this arrangement no transmitters or internal receivers would be necessary.

In the preferred embodiment modem speed for the communication setup is requested at step this step is optional . The computer program in conjunction with processor checks to see if the update time interval is needed at step . The update time interval determines how often the television schedule guide information is updated for the user. For example updates could take place each time computer is booted up once a day or 4 times a week. If the update time interval is needed a request is sent to the user at step . If the time interval is not needed a connection to the main site is made at step . The main site provides the data needed for the television schedule guide and receives information such as a credit card number for billing purposes via line . The user can then select which available channels will be displayed on computer screen at step . Thus the user can customize the displayed information at step . The user is then asked to input or select IR codes at step . These IR codes are used for communicating with peripheral devices within television system . In the preferred embodiment these IR codes are sent to memory within computer accessory . The data needed for the television schedule are then downloaded via line at step . Processor and the computer program installed on hard drive work in conjunction to create the schedule guide for display on computer screen at step .

At step the user can input any additional desired display parameters for the display of the television schedule guide. For example the user can have certain channels eliminated from the displayed television schedule guide or the user can select a particular order for each of the television channels within the guide. At step the television schedule guide is displayed upon user request on computer screen as shown in . At step the user can enter a selection from the television schedule guide via user input device . The user can select a program for either automatic tuning or for automatic unattended recording. At step the software determines if the time for the automatic tune or record is equal to the present time. If the program start time is not equal to the present time then the software waits at step . If the time equals the present time then the software performs automatic tuning or automatic recording at step . Automatic tuning and automatic recording is set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 423 411 as stated above. The process flow chart of is then complete.

In another embodiment of the present invention a computer program located for example on hard drive can monitor and track user selections. This computer program can then be used to provide suggested television programs to the user. Additionally if desired the computer program can automatically schedule suggested television programs for automatic tuning and or automatic unattended recording.

The available data displayed on television can emulate what a computer on line user normally sees when accessing the internet through a personal computer. This television schedule data can also be further enhanced to tie into the televisions show that the user is viewing. Alternatively accessory may be replaced by accessory which is attached to set top box e.g. a cable box . The data provided via the on line information provider is then transmitted to television over line . Similarly accessory attached to VCR can be used to obtain the television schedule data. The data would then be transmitted from VCR to television over line .

In another embodiment the database with the television schedule information is located in memory within television . Controller is used to obtain the data from memory so that it can be displayed on television . Alternatively the database with the television schedule information could be located in memory within set top box or in memory within VCR . Controller or controller would be used to obtain the data which would then be sent to television for display via line or line . Therefore the technology that enables the television schedule information to be provided from a database to a television for display is not specific to any given data system. In summary this technology can be resident in the user s set top box television VCR personal computer or the like.

The television schedule information provided from a database can be used to provide information which is independent of the viewer s program choice. For example from a television schedule guide the user can utilize remote control to press a Services button. This Services button can be located on remote control or within the television schedule guide display. When the Services button is pressed the user is given choices such as News Weather Sports Scores Financial Data Local Traffic etc. Using remote control the user can then select the area or title of interest and the associated information from the database is provided. If accessory is used a modem accesses the on line service which provides the information from the database. Once this connection is made the user has two way communication with the on line service provider. The user can then go deeper into the given selections or if requested and keyboard is available can access the Internet and enter chat rooms or other interactive services. In the preferred embodiment keyboard is either an IR keyboard or connected to port on accessory .

In yet another embodiment a television program title and or a program s content is contextually linked to an on line service or to an available database. In this arrangement a user in conjunction with the data made available through an electronic program guide or navigational system can link search select and or initiate a subscription to more information relating to specific areas of interest or concerns associated with a program or a program s title. In the preferred embodiment a user of an electronic program guide e.g. as described above can conduct a search for information about a particular program television show or for information relating to the show the actors the actresses the show s theme other broadcast times or sources and other related information through selection via a user interface. This linking of program title and or program content to additional related information could be operable whenever a program title is accessible in a electronic program guide. Additionally this linking could be available whenever a user requests it via the currently tuned program.

For example a user previewing the program such as a movie e.g. Casablanca can receive information regarding 1 the actors and actresses in that movie 2 other movies released during the same time period 3 associated available products 4 related travel packages and 5 advertisements and promotions available through primary secondary or third party vendors other broadcast times or sources. Utilizing a user interface such as remote control or keyboard the user can indicate to the electronic program guide what information they would like to view on television . The electronic program guide then lists a selection of choices for the user. In the preferred embodiment the choices are associated with the context of the selected program and can be changed via the electronic program guide supplier. In the Casablanca example the choices might be 1 Other Humphrey Bogart Movies 2 Other Lauren Bacall Movies 3 Other Movies Released in the Same Era or 4 Associated Products other broadcast times or sources. The user selects from the presented choices and the electronic program guide contacts and communicates with the database of available information for more detailed information relating to the user s choice. Once contact and communication is established between the user and the database of available television information the electronic program guide acts as an agent to assure that the information flow and appropriate data is exchanged. At this point the user can delve deeper into the available information by selecting from a series of further choices or related topics. For example if the user chooses 1 Other Humphrey Bogart Movies option the electronic program guide contacts and communicates with the selected database of available information. The database of available information is then used to collect the requested data of other Humphrey Bogart movies. The selected choice is transmitted and used by the electronic program guide as its contextual reference for the search. A list with the search results is then displayed on television .

Once the user sees the list of broadcast times or sources for Casablanca or other Humphrey Bogart movies the user can select any of the available titles for recording or watching or digital storage when digital program directories libraries or archival sources are available. In the preferred embodiment each time the available database is contacted and searched previously selected movies can be identified. In addition a user can select certain types of programs to be recorded watched or retrieved for digital storage before any particular program is available to the electronic program guide. Moreover each time a connection is made to an on line service the software can search the database and set the selected types of programs to be recorded and or retrieved for digital storage. These features enable a consumer to never miss a favorite program.

The system and method of the present invention may be configured to automatically or manually customize the television schedule guide to an individual viewer or a group of viewers e.g. a family. In this embodiment the remote control device may be used to select certain programs and a memory stores the television programs that have been selected by the viewer. The programs can be selected for a variety of reasons such as a designation of the program as a favorite placing a reminder to watch the program or when the television schedule system includes a recording device placing an automatic reminder to the program guide to record the program or when the television schedule system includes a means of digital storage automatically downloading or providing an easy confirmation process for downloading the program. The user may also customize specific preferences based on a program title. Through a series of repetitive operations the electronic program guide can select programs titles or services that the user would likely be interested in. This can be accomplished through a user interface wherein the user answers preference or choice questions or through heuristic learning accomplished through the electronic program guide. The electronic program guide would include software for performing this customization.

In an exemplary embodiment the system includes a database containing each program within the television schedule and or listing information. The database may be included within a computer integrally combined with the television e.g. PCTV a computer that is coupled to the television through suitable lines or the database may be accessed from a remote computer e.g. via the internet or other communication medium. Within the database each program is associated with a variety of criteria or features such as particular actors actresses directors the type of movie e.g. action comedy and the like. When the viewer selects a program as a favorite for example he or she will have the option of designating the criteria or reason s that the program is a favorite i.e. actor director etc. . The computer will include a processor and suitable software for automatically searching the database for other programs having the same criteria. The processor will automatically place the programs that include the designated criteria into the selection window and provide visual indication of each program in the matrix of cells in the program guide. In this way the program guide will automatically customize itself to the individual viewer to facilitate use of the television schedule. A more detailed description of this method can be found in commonly assigned co pending U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 015 648 filed Apr. 19 1996 the complete disclosure of which has previously been incorporated by reference.

In the embodiment of the present invention shown in two programs provided at the same time can be automatically recorded because two VCRs and are present. The user need only select two programs for recording and the present invention will automatically cause the programs to be recorded when they are aired in an unattended fashion. The user can also directly select which device or devices will be recording or tuning for each selected program. For additional information see commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 151 789 to Young the complete disclosure of which has previously been incorporated by reference.

The user can further access the internet by choosing Network from the guide using the user interface. Cable modem accesses the internet and once connection is made the user has two way communication with on line service providers. The user can then access the different on line services. For example a user viewing a sporting event may press the Services button and a different menu will appear with the following choices 1 Sports Scores 2 Current Game Statistics 3 Current Player Statistics and 4 Associated Products. If the user selects 4 Associated Products the software will notify the cable modem and instruct the cable modem to establish connection with an on line service provider. The on line service provider then lists a series of selections associated with the game e.g. 49er s hats Giant s Baseball Bats from Louisville Slugger Nike Spiked Football shoes for Pop Warner etc. and the user can interact with the service provider accordingly.

In one embodiment the computer network includes a plurality of servers and a database . The database includes television schedule information which may be retrieved and viewed on PCTV . Servers represent file servers having files databases or the like. In a representative embodiment the computer network is the World Wide Web and each server is set up as a network file server addressable by a unique address. For example the servers may be configured to follow a common network protocol such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and the Internet Protocol IP commonly referred to collectively as TCP IP and may be assigned a unique IP address or internet domain name. For example the servers may be assigned the domain name invoice.com . The servers may also have some form of server software installed to permit the system to function as an internet graphics server. For example the servers may be configured with HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP server software to permit the system to function as an internet world wide web WWW server. In this embodiment PCTV may access servers via the WWW using WWW compatible software by indicating the system s uniform resource locator address.

In another embodiment the television schedule guide not shown is stored as one or more files e.g. a websites or internet broadcast transmitters on one of the servers which can be accessed by any viewer having access to the World Wide Web. The television schedule guide or website may be configured for viewing and interacting with television information directly on line or it may be configured for downloading the information into a computer hard drive or other suitable processor. The guide will provide listings information for all channels in the viewer s local cable lineup. Preferably the guide will be capable of creating personalized TV listings with search and sort features discussed below that allow the viewer to call up favorite programming choices based on categories such as channel day actor movie genre or other desired categories. The guide may also include other information about programs such as ratings stars type of movie e.g. suspense comedy drama western musical children biography horror etc. . This information may be provided on the actual website and or internet broadcast transmitter or the website and or internet broadcast transmitter may provide means for linking the viewer with other websites and or internet broadcast transmitter to provide more information on certain topics and categories.

Since the television guide website and or internet broadcast transmitter may be accessed from virtually any location in the world it will preferably include a mechanism for selecting a region from which the television guide is applicable. For example the television guide may include television schedule and or listing information from a variety of countries throughout the world or the information guide may be limited to the United States. To obtain television schedule information for a particular region the user can select an appropriate state city or other region such as a region covered by a particular cable company. Alternatively the television schedule guide may provide information for certain networks and stations instead of particular channels or stations such as CBS FOX HBO and the like that are global to all regions of the country. With this configuration the television guide may include a time zone selection so that the guide can automatically be configured for the particular time zone in which the user will watch television.

In one embodiment of the present invention the system will include a search engine that allows the viewer to search for particular types of programs that will be broadcast within a certain period of time. The search engine may include categories such as title description category dates day parts channels actor actresses directors etc. In addition the viewer may obtain more information on the programs within each category. For example the guide could provide information on movies in many categories including theatrical made for TV movies Spanish French etc. The guide can tell you what Clint Eastwood movies are on this week how many StarTrek episodes this weekend or whether your favorite basketball team is on TV this Saturday. The on line viewer may customize their own listings by title year actors director run themes critical star rating MPAA warning lines video laser disc full descriptions genre and holidays with themes. In another example the guide could provide information on shows and series including network shows first run British PBS cult favorites syndicated shows talk shows local productions and obscure programs. The user may sort by for example title episode run times genre original air date etc.

In another aspect of the invention the web site television guide will include a highlight section that highlights particular programs that will be broadcast during the day week or month. For example the guide may have a web page that picks a hot pick for each day of the week and provides a picture or video together with descriptive information such as an editorial comment on the video hot pick. In addition the user may be able to move to other areas where more information can be provided on particular moves such as articles interviews with actors actresses editor s choice reviews commentaries etc.

In another aspect of the invention the system will include a variety of files on the same or different network servers that allow the user to interact with other users program sponsors advertisers etc. For example the system may have a web site that allows viewers to chat about certain programs each program itself may have its own web site . In addition the system may include a virtual agent that searches existing websites and or internet broadcast transmitter on the internet and points to websites and or internet broadcast transmitters that may interest the viewer. The virtual agent will learn from previous user choices to customize the television guide for each particular viewer.

PCTV may include a memory and a processor with appropriate software not shown for searching and retrieving information from databases on the Internet based on user selections. Alternatively this function may be provided through Internet television guide database or through the commercial provider or broadcaster . In this embodiment PCTV may access download and or automatically upgrade an application or applet e.g. a Java applet having the appropriate software to run the television schedule guide on a display e.g. a computer monitor television display or other user interface.

In one example the viewer is watching a sports event such as a football game. One or more icons or other visual indicators are located on the television screen in a convenient location such as the top right corner. One of these icons may be an icon that represents the television schedule guide. The viewer can move a cursor or other visual indicator to the television guide icon and click thereon to open up the television guide as discussed in detail below. Another icon may be provided for example by a commercial sponsor. Moving into and activating this icon allows the viewer to link with a database provided by the commercial sponsor or to a portion of the television schedule guide database that allows the viewer to purchase an advertised product make a monetary contribution respond to a survey answer a question or participating in contests with other viewers for example.

By way of example Budweiser may provide a database that allows the viewer to purchase a coupon for a free six pack or other items such as Budweiser T shirts hats etc. The viewer may purchase the coupon hats or T shirts directly through the commercial sponsor or through a delivery system provided by the television schedule guide discussed in detail below . This type of advertising allows the advertiser to directly target a particular program and it allows the viewer to directly purchase the products during the advertisement. In addition viewers will not forget the advertisement or simply lose motivation to spend money or request information after the commercial or program is over.

In another example the television network that is broadcasting the program may provide an icon that allows the viewer to access a database providing more information about the football game previews of upcoming programs related to the program such as another football game later on in the week or other products and services related to the football game.

As shown in program guide preferably includes a schedule information area having a program matrix of cells or items that depict the shows that are being presented on each channel at each time during the day. Program guide conveniently lists the channels in a vertical column to the left of the program matrix and the times in a horizontal row above matrix . As shown the viewer may vertically scroll through a particular time or horizontally scroll through a channel with the remote control device. As the viewer scrolls through matrix a cursor will indicate the user s location within the matrix . Alternatively the item may be automatically highlighted with a brighter color to indicate the viewer s location. Preferably program matrix will also be shaded to indicate the portion of each show that has already been presented. For example as shown in the shading extends to 7 48 the current time as indicated at the bottom right of program guide to indicate which portion of the show the viewer has already missed.

As shown in program guide includes a number of other information areas. For example program guide includes a mode menu area that indicates the currently active mode i.e. program guide and allows the viewer to pull down a mode menu see . Program guide also includes a date area that indicates the date reflected in program matrix and allows the viewer to pull down a date submenu to change the date. In other submodes the submode menu will display options for ordering or displaying lists that are appropriately related to the submode. A proportional scroll bar located to the left of program matrix is visually proportional to the total information in program matrix to provide visual feedback as the user vertically scrolls through matrix . In addition scroll bar may be used for large scale movement through hundreds of channels sources by navigating to bar and then vertically moving bar . An exit area allows the viewer to immediately exit back to the television by navigating to exit area and clicking on the remote control device. A program area depicts the currently tuned program and a preview window area can be used for all types of promotional descriptional or contextual video or graphics such as a short preview of the show that is currently being highlighted in show matrix . Preview window area may also be interactional similar to the other areas of guide .

The program guide may also include a variety of additional areas to facilitate use of the television schedule system present information to the viewer or advertise programs or other products. For example a scrolling commercial message may be located underneath program matrix that advertises programs or products from program sponsors etc. The viewer may navigate to message to receive more information or to purchase the product or program.

This function of ordering items is not limited to videos. For example the program may access other contextual linked services such as a commercial store etc. to allow the purchaser to buy a wide variety of different services or goods directly or indirectly linked to a particular program. For example an Info Menu for Monday Night Football may allow the viewer to scroll through submenus that allow the viewer to purchase Washington Redskins caps Minnesota Vikings caps or any NFL cap. The viewer has a choice to follow a program s link back to the commercial area where a larger selection of items and services are available. A product like the cap above may lead the viewer directly to an NFL proshop whereas a link to a movie on demand may lead back to a commercial film library.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in detail for purposes of clarity it will be obvious that certain modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. For example the viewer can automatically tune to a desired program or can select different programs for automatic recording and or retrieval and digital storage. For more information on automatic tuning and automatic recording see U.S. Pat. No. 4 706 121 this patent is like the present patent application assigned to Starsight Telecast Inc. U.S. Pat. No. 4 706 121 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

