---

title: System and method for communicating data using waveform with extended preamble
abstract: A system communicates data and includes an encoder for encoding communications data. A modulator maps the communications data based on a specific mapping algorithm to form a communications signal over which the communications data can be transmitted. The communications signal includes a preamble that has set-up or transmission parameters used for acquiring the signal at a modem and at least one extended preamble for conveying additional set-up or transmission parameters. This extended preamble includes N extended preamble bits having at least one of information, transmission parameter and control bits and M map bits that identify a predetermined mapping for the N extended preamble bits.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07903756&OS=07903756&RS=07903756
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 07903756
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071022
---
The present invention relates to communications systems and more particularly the present invention relates to communications systems that use waveforms with preambles for acquiring a signal at a modem.

Some multi band or other tactical radios operate in the high frequency HF very high frequency VHF for satellite communications and ultra high frequency UHF bands. The frequency range of these multi band tactical radios is from about 2 MHz to about 512 MHz. Next generation radios will probably cover about 2.0 to about 2 000 MHz or higher to accommodate wider bandwidths higher data rate and less crowded frequency bands. Several standards have been developed for the different frequency bands. For HF US MIL STD 188 110B and US MIL STD 188 141B specify waveform and minimum performance requirements of waveforms and radio equipment the disclosures which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

UHF standards on the other hand provide different challenges over the 225 to about 512 MHz frequency range including short haul line of sight LOS communication and satellite communications SATCOM and cable. This type of propagation can be obtained through different weather conditions foliage and other obstacles making UHF SATCOM an indispensable communications medium for many agencies. Different directional antennas can be used to improve antenna gain and improve data rates on the transmit and receive links. This type of communication is typically governed in one example by MIL STD 188 181B the disclosure which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. This standard specifies a family of constant and non constant amplitude waveforms for use over satellite links.

The joint tactical radio system JTRS implements some of these standards and has different designs that use oscillators mixers switchers splitters combiners and power amplifier devices to cover different frequency ranges. The modulation schemes used for these types of systems can occupy a fixed bandwidth channel at a fixed carrier frequency or can be frequency hopped. These systems usually utilize memoryless modulations such as a phase shift keying PSK amplitude shift keying ASK frequency shift keying FSK quadrature amplitude modulation QAM or modulations with memory such as continuous phase modulation CPM and combine them with a convolutional or other type of forward error correction code. Standard waveforms are often used.

Some defined standard waveforms use a fixed preamble for modem time and frequency synchronization before the transmission of data. Some defined standards such as MIL STD 188 110B and STANAG 4539 use a fixed and data bearing preamble where data is encoded at a robust low bit rate to convey transmission parameters such as a data rate and or interleaver setting. These preambles are not extensible or flexible. Additional data fields identifying additional or alternate transmission parameters or modes of operation cannot easily be added to these existing waveforms.

Typically a modem operating in accordance with the MIL STD 188 110B standard will acquire a signal while looking for a pattern. The modem will look at the different parameters in the preamble to determine what waveform it is receiving. This preamble usually has known symbols to obtain a reliable acquisition. Typically there is a portion of the preamble having predetermined numbers that the modem uses to determine what waveform modulation follows and what interleaver setting is being used.

The preambles are not extensible because the preambles in these standard waveforms have a predetermined number of bits. Often two slots or values are left free with identifiers. It would be advantageous if additional information could be presented in the preamble to convey additional set up or transmission parameters to more fully automate a radio system.

A system communicates data and includes an encoder for encoding communications data. A modulator maps the communications data based on a specific mapping algorithm to form a communications signal over which the communications data can be transmitted. The communications signal includes a preamble that has set up or transmission parameters used for acquiring the signal at a modem and at least one extended preamble for conveying additional set up or transmission parameters. This extended preamble includes N extended preamble bits having at least one of information transmission parameter and control bits and M map bits that identify a predetermined mapping for the N extended preamble bits.

The preamble includes a modulation parameter field having identifiers for data rate and interleaver settings. The at least one extended preamble can be identified by unused identifiers in this modulation parameter field. P parity bits can be added for error correction to check the validity of the extended preamble. The control bits can indicate the number of extended preambles. The control bits can sequentially count down to identify the number of extended preambles and sequentially count down to 0 for identifying the last extended preamble. A block FEC Forward Error Correction code can be added to the extended preamble.

The N extended preamble bits can be formed as information identifying where specific data is located within the signal corresponding to a selected type of data. Additional set up or transmission parameters can be formed as information regarding at least one of a digital voice DV mode as a vocoder bit rate transmission length addressing bits reverse path quality metrics and information regarding how the data transmission is sectioned.

Different embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments are shown. Many different forms can be set forth and described embodiments should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements in alternative embodiments.

It should be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the approach to be described is not limited for use with any particular communication standard wireless or otherwise and can be adapted for use with numerous wireless or wired communications standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS extended data rate Bluetooth Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Wireless LAN WLAN Ultra Wideband UWB coaxial cable radar optical etc. Further the invention is not limited for use with a specific PHY or radio type but is applicable to other compatible technologies as well.

Throughout this description the term communications device is defined as any apparatus or mechanism adapted to transmit receive or transmit and receive data through a medium. The communications device may be adapted to communicate over any suitable medium such as RF wireless infrared optical wired microwave etc. In the case of wireless communications the communications device may comprise an RF transmitter RF receiver RF transceiver or any combination thereof. Wireless communication involves radio frequency communication microwave communication for example long range line of sight via highly directional antennas or short range communication and or infrared IR short range communication. Applications may involve point to point communication point to multipoint communication broadcasting cellular networks and other wireless networks.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art a method data processing system or computer program product can embody different examples in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention. Accordingly these portions may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore portions may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

The description as presented below can apply with reference to flowchart illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

For purposes of description a typical high frequency communications system used for transmitting and receiving digital data is described with reference to . This system can communicate using different standards and waveforms including waveforms pertaining to the MIL STD 188 110B standard. The system and method can employ this technology and adopt it and apply an extended preamble in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention.

As shown in for this typical HF communications system at a transmit section a data stream Src that is to be transmitted is forwarded as 1 s and 0 s as is typical. The encoder is operative as a Forward Error Correction FEC encoder and applies a FEC algorithm to the data which passes to an interleaver which interleaves the data which is then modulated by a modulator . In some prior art systems having similar functions differential modulation is applied at this point. The present invention can use coherent modulation in the modulator for example. The modulator could be a two four or eight PSK modulator as a non limiting example. Mini probe sequences can also be applied. The data is passed into a transmit digital low pass filter and the data is up converted by a digital up conversion circuit from baseband to an 1800 Hz carrier in this one non limiting example. A radio transmit filter RTF limits the bandwidth of the transmit waveform to about 3 KHz. The data is passed to a high frequency multi path and fading channel simulator circuit meant to simulate an HF channel where multi path is modeled as a tapped delay line and each tap in the tapped delay line has fading characteristics based on the Watterson model.

At a receiver section a radio receive filter limits the bandwidth of the data signal to about 3 KHz. The data is digitally down converted in the converter from 1800 Hz carrier to baseband in this non limiting example. The data passes into a receive digital low pass filter that is ideally the same as the transmit digital low pass filter TDF . The demodulation occurs followed by deinterleaving within a deinterleaver circuit . The forward error correction FEC decoder circuit decodes the data and passes it as a received bit stream Sink .

For purposes of explanation a description of the MIL STD 188 110B standard is now set forth. MIL STD 188 110B Appendix C defines a family of high data rate waveforms that can provide data rates from 3200 BPS up to 12 800 BPS. In a non limiting example the waveforms have different transmission phases and can use a transmit level control TLC block that carries no information and is generated solely for the purpose of radio TGC transmit gain control ALC automatic level control and AGC automatic gain control settling before an actual preamble is sent and received. This TLC block has a variable length from 0 7 with each count having a length of about 184 symbols. An initial preamble can be about 287 symbols and is used for reliable synchronization and autobauding at the start of transmission. It could contain as a non limiting example 184 symbols used exclusively for synchronization with the remaining 103 symbols used for determining the data rate and interleaver setting i.e. autobaud. About 72 blocks in this non limiting example could be alternating unknown known symbols for example where each block has 256 data symbols followed by 31 known symbols. A 72 symbol subset of the initial preamble can be used for late acquisition autobaud Doppler shift removal and synchronization adjustment.

The main body of US MIL STD 188 110B defines a family of waveforms providing data rates between 75 bps up to 4800 bps. It uses a 600 ms or 4.8 second preamble with an embedded 4 bit count and 4 bit modulation parameter field. The count transitions identify the end of the preamble. A modulation parameter field identifies the transmitted bit rate and interleaver setting and contains several unused identifiers as shown in the table of showing the bit rate a short interleaver setting for D and D and a long interleaver setting for D and D. As illustrated 5 7 can be used to identify the extended preamble because of the unused block section.

This table shows the two bit areas as D and D and shows the mapping of these to identify an on air data rate and interleaver being used. The pair D and D has a respective value of 5 7 as one no limiting example. It can be used for an extended preamble. This corresponds to the data and the two symbols as slots. As a non limiting example when the value 5 7 appears in D and D this becomes the identifier to latch onto the new preamble. It is also possible to use any of the numerals for 6 or 7 such as 5 6 and 5 7 as a non limiting example. Thus in this case using the MIL STD 188 110B there are two identifiers open indicating that there is more in the preamble thus corresponding to an extended preamble in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention.

The mechanism as described adds a number of extended preamble EP frames to convey additional set up or transmission parameters for example a digital voice DV mode as used in a vocoder bit rate system. It is also possible to convey in this extended preamble a different set up for the transmission parameters including the transmission length addressing bits reverse path quality metrics and similar data. The extended preamble can also be used to section the data transmission into a number of distinct entities for more efficient transmission of multiple data sources. For example the extended preamble could specify that the data transmission contains N bytes of digital voice DV followed by M bytes of automatic repeat request ARQ data followed by P bytes of broadcast data. Each of these concatenated data sections could be at different data rates and modulation schemes. These additional fields could also be used to more fully automate the radio system.

It should be understood that when using some systems such as digital voice and data long preambles were necessary to obtain reliable acquisition in difficult HF channel conditions. In a prior art problem the system may desire to transmit large portions of digital voice and data and in the prior art systems one separate transmission of preamble for digital voice would have to be transmitted and then another preamble transmitted for the digital data. This adds to the overhead by having to send this large preamble many times.

The extended preamble in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention on the other hand gives the system the ability to combine a number of transmissions into a single transmission having only one preamble with the right information in the extended preamble to demodulate different pieces of data embedded in the transmission.

For example in the illustration of an extended preamble could be for digital voice and then an extended preamble for the ARQ i.e. reliable transmission of digital data . It is possible to use multiple extended preamble blocks one for each of the items that should be transmitted such as digital voice video and broadcast each having an extended preamble. The N extended preamble bits have the information identifying where it is located while the M map bits define a predetermined mapping for example by using three bits to say what mode there is. For example in one non limiting simple example the N extended preamble bits could identify digital voice and 1 000 bytes. The M map bits could indicate a code such as 001 to indicate that the N extended preamble bits were broken up for example 3 bits for the mode and 10 bits for the number of bytes. The M map bits can indicate how to interpret the N extended preamble bits . These bits could be interpreted differently depending on what the M map bits are.

In prior art systems using the MIL STD 188 110B standard typically there was no cyclic redundancy check CRC on the preamble. If a mistake was made in transmission the modem could acquire but would make a wrong decision and thus would have to deacquire wasting resources and time. The control bits can determine how many blocks are following. This could be a field of multiple bits that could be covered by the parity bits as well. For example there could be a number of extended preamble bits and the D control bits could count down. If the control bit was 0 then that would be the last extended preamble. For example there may be a different extended preamble and three bits could be used for counting down one extended preamble to the next. Preamble could be followed by preamble and the values could be 001 followed by 000 highlighting that the extended preamble corresponding to 000 is the last extended preamble.

The system as described is not a protocol but can use an existing preamble bit or hypothesis test to determine if an extended preamble is present. In the hypothesis test an example could be if the MIL standard is not used and thus the 5 7 identifiers are not possible the system may look for a pattern and decide whether there is an extended preamble as part of a hypothesis. Thus a determination would be made whether the preamble is present or not. The hypothesis test is not necessary in the MIL standard as described because the extra 5 7 could be used for the extended preamble identifier. In the hypothesis test the end of the preamble would be looked at to determine where the data portion starts to hypothesize if there is an extended preamble or data. Thus the system determines if there is a pattern that starts after the preamble to determine if there is an extended preamble or data following.

The count bits as a field allows multiple extended preambles to be concatenated while the map bits as a field allows a system to have several different definitions of the extended preamble bits while each of the concatenated extended preambles can provide different or the same information. This approach does not use more bandwidth than is necessary and can be used to break a single transmission into subsections.

The system as described is adequate for an enhancement for the MIL STD 188 110B and 188 141B standards.

For purposes of description some background information on coding interleaving and an exemplary wireless mobile radio communications system that includes ad hoc capability and can be modified for use is set forth. This example of a communications system that can be used and modified for use with the present invention is now set forth with regard to .

An example of a radio that could be used with such system and method is a Falcon III radio manufactured and sold by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This type of radio can support multiple wavebands form 30 MHz up to 2 GHz including L band SATCOM and MANET. The waveforms can provide secure IP data networking. It should be understood that different radios can be used including software defined radios that can be typically implemented with relatively standard processor and hardware components. One particular class of software radio is the Joint Tactical Radio JTR which includes relatively standard radio and processing hardware along with any appropriate waveform software modules to implement the communication waveforms a radio will use. JTR radios also use operating system software that conforms with the software communications architecture SCA specification see www.jtrs.saalt.mil which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The SCA is an open architecture framework that specifies how hardware and software components are to interoperate so that different manufacturers and developers can readily integrate the respective components into a single device.

The Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS Software Component Architecture SCA defines a set of interfaces and protocols often based on the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA for implementing a Software Defined Radio SDR . In part JTRS and its SCA are used with a family of software re programmable radios. As such the SCA is a specific set of rules methods and design criteria for implementing software re programmable digital radios.

The JTRS SCA specification is published by the JTRS Joint Program Office JPO . The JTRS SCA has been structured to provide for portability of applications software between different JTRS SCA implementations leverage commercial standards to reduce development cost reduce development time of new waveforms through the ability to reuse design modules and build on evolving commercial frameworks and architectures.

The JTRS SCA is not a system specification as it is intended to be implementation independent but a set of rules that constrain the design of systems to achieve desired JTRS objectives. The software framework of the JTRS SCA defines the Operating Environment OE and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE comprises a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The JTRS SCA also provides a building block structure defined in the API Supplement for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The JTRS SCA Core Framework CF is an architectural concept defining the essential core set of open software Interfaces and Profiles that provide for the deployment management interconnection and intercommunication of software application components in embedded distributed computing communication systems. Interfaces may be defined in the JTRS SCA Specification. However developers may implement some of them some may be implemented by non core applications i.e. waveforms etc. and some may be implemented by hardware device providers.

For purposes of description only a brief description of an example of a communications system that includes communications devices that incorporate the filter in accordance with a non limiting example is described relative to a non limiting example shown in . This high level block diagram of a communications system includes a base station segment and wireless message terminals that could be modified for use with the present invention. The base station segment includes a VHF radio and HF radio that communicate and transmit voice or data over a wireless link to a VHF net or HF net each which include a number of respective VHF radios and HF radios and personal computer workstations connected to the radios . Ad hoc communication networks are interoperative with the various components as illustrated. The entire network can be ad hoc and include source destination and neighboring mobile nodes. Thus it should be understood that the HF or VHF networks include HF and VHF net segments that are infrastructure less and operative as the ad hoc communications network. Although UHF and higher frequency radios and net segments are not illustrated these could be included.

The radio can include a demodulator circuit and appropriate convolutional encoder circuit block interleaver data randomizer circuit data and framing circuit modulation circuit matched filter circuit block or symbol equalizer circuit with an appropriate clamping device deinterleaver and decoder circuit modem and power adaptation circuit as non limiting examples. A vocoder circuit can incorporate the decode and encode functions and a conversion unit could be a combination of the various circuits as described or a separate circuit. A clock circuit can establish the physical clock time and through second order calculations as described below a virtual clock time. The network can have an overall network clock time. These and other circuits operate to perform any functions necessary for the present invention as well as other functions suggested by those skilled in the art. Other illustrated radios including all VHF or UHF and higher frequency mobile radios and transmitting and receiving stations can have similar functional circuits. Radios could range from 30 MHz to about 2 GHz as non limiting examples.

The base station segment includes a landline connection to a public switched telephone network PSTN which connects to a PABX . A satellite interface such as a satellite ground station connects to the PABX which connects to processors forming wireless gateways . These interconnect to the VHF radio or HF radio respectively. The processors are connected through a local area network to the PABX and e mail clients . The radios include appropriate signal generators and modulators.

An Ethernet TCP IP local area network could operate as a radio mail server. E mail messages could be sent over radio links and local air networks using STANAG 5066 as second generation protocols waveforms the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and of course preferably with the third generation interoperability standard STANAG 4538 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An interoperability standard FED STD 1052 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety could be used with legacy wireless devices. Examples of equipment that can be used in the present invention include different wireless gateway and radios manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This equipment could include RF5800 5022 7210 5710 5285 and PRC 117 and 138 series equipment and devices as non limiting examples.

These systems can be operable with RF 5710A high frequency HF modems and with the NATO standard known as STANAG 4539 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety which provides for transmission of long distance radio at rates up to 9 600 bps. In addition to modem technology those systems can use wireless email products that use a suite of data link protocols designed and perfected for stressed tactical channels such as the STANAG 4538 or STANAG 5066 the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. It is also possible to use a fixed non adaptive data rate as high as 19 200 bps with a radio set to ISB mode and an HF modem set to a fixed data rate. It is possible to use code combining techniques and ARQ.

A communications system that incorporates communications devices can be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention and is shown in . A transmitter is shown at and includes basic functional circuit components or modules including a forward error correction encoder that includes a puncturing module which could be integral to the encoder or a separate module. The decoder and its puncturing module includes a function for repeating as will be explained below. Encoded data is interleaved at an interleaver for example a block interleaver and in many cases modulated at modulator . This modulator can map the communications data into different symbols based on a specific mapping algorithm to form a communications signal. For example it could form Minimum Shift Keying or Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying MSK or GMSK symbols. Other types of modulation could be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. Up conversion and filtering occurs at an up converter and filter which could be formed as an integrated module or separate modules. Communications signals are transmitted for example wirelessly to receiver .

At the receiver down conversion and filtering occurs at a down converter and filter which could be integrated or separate modules. The signal is demodulated at demodulator and deinterleaved at deinterleaver . The deinterleaved data i.e. bit soft decisions is decoded and depunctured for punctured codes combined for repeated codes and passed through for standard codes at decoder which could include a separate or integrated depuncturing module. The system apparatus and method can use different modules and different functions. These components as described could typically be contained within one transceiver.

It should be understood in one non limiting aspect of the present invention a rate 1 2 K 7 convolutional code can be used as an industry standard code for forward error correction FEC during encoding. For purposes of understanding a more detailed description of basic components now follows. A convolutional code is an error correcting code and usually has three parameters n k m with n equal to the number of output bits k equal to the number of input bits and m equal to the number of memory registers in one non limiting example. The quantity k n could be called the code rate with this definition and is a measure of the efficiency of the code. K and n parameters can range from 1 to 8 m can range from 2 to 10 and the code rate can range from 1 8 to 7 8 in non limiting examples. Sometimes convolutional code chips are specified by parameters n k L with L equal to the constraint length of the code as L k m 1 . Thus the constraint length can represent the number of bits in an encoder memory that would affect the generation of n output bits. Sometimes the letters may be switched depending on the definitions used.

The transformation of the encoded data is a function of the information symbols and the constraint length of the code. Single bit input codes can produce punctured codes that give different code rates. For example when a rate 1 2 code is used the transmission of a subset of the output bits of the encoder can convert the rate 1 2 code into a rate 2 3 code. Thus one hardware circuit or module can produce codes of different rates. Punctured codes allow rates to be changed dynamically through software or hardware depending on channel conditions such as rain or other channel impairing conditions.

An encoder for a convolutional code typically uses a look up table for encoding which usually includes an input bit as well as a number of previous input bits known as the state of the encoder the table value being the output bit or bits of the encoder. It is possible to view the encoder function as a state diagram a tree diagram or a trellis diagram.

Decoding systems for convolutional codes can use 1 sequential decoding or 2 maximum likelihood decoding also referred to as Viterbi decoding which typically is more desirable. Sequential decoding allows both forward and backward movement through the trellis. Viterbi decoding as maximum likelihood decoding examines a receive sequence of given length computes a metric for each path and makes a decision based on the metric.

Puncturing convolutional codes is a common practice in some systems and is used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. It should be understood that in some examples a punctured convolutional code is a higher rate code obtained by the periodic elimination of specific code bits from the output of a low rate encoder. Punctured convolutional code performance can be degraded compared with original codes but typically the coding rate increases.

Some of the basic components that could be used as non limiting examples of the present invention include a transmitter that incorporates a convolutional encoder which encodes a sequence of binary input vectors to produce the sequence of binary output vectors and can be defined using a trellis structure. An interleaver for example a block interleaver can permute the bits of the output vectors. The interleaved data would also be modulated at the transmitter by mapping to transmit symbols and transmitted. At a receiver a demodulator demodulates the signal.

A block deinterleaver recovers the bits that were interleaved. A Viterbi decoder could decode the deinterleaved bit soft decisions to produce binary output data.

Often a Viterbi forward error correction module or core is used that would include a convolutional encoder and Viterbi decoder as part of a radio transceiver as described above. For example if the constraint length of the convolutional code is 7 the encoder and Viterbi decoder could support selectable code rates of 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 using industry standard puncturing algorithms.

Different design and block systems parameters could include the constraint length as a number of input bits over which the convolutional code is computed and a convolutional code rate as the ratio of the input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncturing rate could include a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using the puncturing process for example derived from a rate 1 2 code.

The Viterbi decoder parameters could include the convolutional code rate as a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncture rate could be the ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using a puncturing process and can be derived from a rate 1 2 mother code. The input bits could be the number of processing bits for the decoder. The Viterbi input width could be the width of input data i.e. soft decisions to the Viterbi decoder. A metric register length could be the width of registers storing the metrics. A trace back depth could be the length of path required by the Viterbi decoder to compute the most likely decoded bit value. The size of the memory storing the path metrics information for the decoding process could be the memory size. In some instances a Viterbi decoder could include a First In First Out FIFO buffer between depuncture and Viterbi function blocks or modules. The Viterbi output width could be the width of input data to the Viterbi decoder.

The encoder could include a puncturing block circuit or module as noted above. Usually a convolutional encoder may have a constraint length of 7 and take the form of a shift register with a number of elements for example 6. One bit can be input for each clock cycle. Thus the output bits could be defined by a combination of shift register elements using a standard generator code and be concatenated to form an encoded output sequence. There could be a serial or parallel byte data interface at the input. The output width could be programmable depending on the punctured code rate of the application.

A Viterbi decoder in non limiting examples could divide the input data stream into blocks and estimate the most likely data sequence. Each decoded data sequence could be output in a burst. The input and calculations can be continuous and require four clock cycles for every two bits of data in one non limiting example. An input FIFO can be dependent on a depuncture input data rate.

It should also be understood that the present invention is not limited to convolutional codes and similar FEC but also turbo codes could be used as high performance error correction codes or low density parity check codes that approach the Shannon limit as the theoretical limit of maximum information transfer rate over a noisy channel. Thus some available bandwidth can be increased without increasing the power of the transmission. Instead of producing binary digits from the signal the front end of the decoder could be designed to produce a likelihood measure for each bit.

The system and extended preamble in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention can be used in multiprocessor embedded systems and related methods and also used for any type of radio software communications architecture as used on mainframe computers or small computers including laptops with an added transceiver such as used by military and civilian applications or in a portable wireless communications device as illustrated in . The portable wireless communications device is illustrated as a radio that can include a transceiver as an internal component and handheld housing with an antenna and control knobs. A Liquid Crystal Display LCD or similar display can be positioned on the housing in an appropriate location for display. The various internal components including dual processor systems for red and black subsystems and software that is conforming with SCA is operative with the illustrated radio. Although a portable or handheld radio is disclosed the architecture as described can be used with any processor system operative with the transceiver using SCA and the extended preamble in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. An example of a communications device that could incorporate the extended preamble in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention is the Falcon III manpack or tactical radio platform manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

