---

title: Green emitting phosphors and blends thereof
abstract: Phosphor compositions, blends thereof and light emitting devices including white light emitting LED based devices, and backlights, based on such phosphor compositions. The devices include a light source and a phosphor material as described. Also disclosed are phosphor blends including such a phosphor and devices made therefrom.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07857994&OS=07857994&RS=07857994
owner: GE Lighting Solutions, LLC
number: 07857994
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070530
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number DE FC26 06NT42934 awarded by the Department of Energy which has certain rights to this invention as provided for in the terms of that contract.

The present exemplary embodiments relate to phosphor compositions particularly phosphors for use in lighting and other applications. More particularly the present embodiments relate to novel green emitting phosphors blends incorporating such phosphors and a lighting apparatus employing these phosphors.

Light emitting diodes LEDs are semiconductor light emitters often used as a replacement for other light sources such as incandescent lamps. They are particularly useful as display lights warning lights and indicator lights or in other applications where colored light is desired. The color of light produced by an LED is dependent on the type of semiconductor material used in its manufacture.

Colored semiconductor light emitting devices including light emitting diodes and lasers both are generally referred to herein as LEDs have been produced from Group III V alloys such as gallium nitride GaN . With reference to the GaN based LEDs light is generally emitted in the UV to green range of the electromagnetic spectrum. Until quite recently LEDs have not been suitable for lighting uses where a bright white light is needed due to the inherent color of the light produced by the LED.

Recently techniques have been developed for converting the light emitted from LEDs to useful light for illumination purposes. In one technique the LED is coated or covered with a phosphor layer. A phosphor is a luminescent material that absorbs radiation energy in a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum and emits energy in another portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. Phosphors of one important class are crystalline inorganic compounds of very high chemical purity and of controlled composition to which small quantities of other elements called activators have been added to convert them into efficient fluorescent materials. With the right combination of activators and inorganic compounds the color of the emission can be controlled. Most useful and well known phosphors emit radiation in the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum in response to excitation by electromagnetic radiation outside the visible range.

By interposing a phosphor excited by the radiation generated by the LED light of a different wavelength e.g. in the visible range of the spectrum may be generated. Colored LEDs are often used in toys indicator lights and other devices. Continuous performance improvements have enabled new applications for LEDs of saturated colors in traffic lights exit signs store signs and the like.

In addition to colored LEDs a combination of LED generated light and phosphor generated light may be used to produce white light. The most popular white LEDs consist of blue emitting GaInN chips. The blue emitting chips are coated with a phosphor that converts some of the blue radiation to a complementary color e.g. a yellowish emission. Together the blue and yellowish radiation produces a white light. There are also white LEDs that utilize a near UV emitting chip and a phosphor blend including red green and blue emitting phosphors designed to convert the UV radiation to visible light.

Known white light emitting devices comprise a blue light emitting LED having a peak emission wavelength in the near blue range from about 440 nm to about 480 nm combined with a yellow light emitting phosphor such as cerium III doped yttrium aluminum garnet YAG Ce a cerium III doped terbium aluminum garnet TAG Ce or a europium II doped barium orthosilicate BOS . The phosphor absorbs a portion of the radiation emitted from the LED and converts the absorbed radiation to a yellow light. The remainder of the blue light emitted by the LED is transmitted through the phosphor and is mixed with the yellow light emitted by the phosphor. A viewer perceives the mixture of blue and yellow light as a white light. The total of the light from the phosphor material and the LED chip provides a color point with corresponding color coordinates x and y and correlated color temperature CCT and its spectral distribution provides a color rendering capability measured by the color rendering index CRI .

Such systems can be used to make white light sources having CCTs of 4500 K and CRIs ranging from about 70 82 with luminous efficacy of radiation LER also referred to as luminosity of about 330 Im W. While this range is suitable for many applications general illumination sources usually require lower CCTs and higher CRIs preferably with similar or better LER. As the CCT is lowered and or the CRI is increased the LER value generally decreases leading to values for warm white LEDs of CCT4500K .

One particularly preferred application of white LED devices made from blue emitting chips and yellow emitting phosphors is for backlights e.g. in cellular phones personal digital assistants and the like. These applications require high CCT values greater than 5000K which are readily provided by the aforementioned LEDs with LER values of 280 Im Wor greater.

The CRI is commonly defined as a mean value for 8 standard color samples R usually referred to as the General Color Rendering Index and abbreviated as R although 14 standard color samples are specified internationally and one can calculate a broader CRI R as their mean value.

Other white light LED lighting systems use a UV or visible light LED chip along with a blend of red green and or blue phosphors that can be efficiently excited by near UV radiation to make white light.

Current green phosphors that can be excited by ultraviolet blue LEDs such as SrAlO Eu or Ba Sr SiO Eu have issues with strong luminescence quenching at high temperatures T 100 C or hydrolytic instability. This can limit their use in a variety of applications such as general illumination lighting as well as display backlighting.

LED chips emitting in the green region of the spectrum e.g. with a peak wavelength from about 500 to 565 nm are known in the art. However LED quantum efficiency is adversely impacted in this wavelength interval for any known chip chemistry. This is also referred to as the green abyss and has resulted in pursuing green phosphor converted LEDs e.g. made with highly efficient near UV chip and highly efficient green phosphor.

Thus a continuing need exists for new green emitting phosphors and blends incorporating the same for use in conjunction with UV and visible LED chips that are stable in water and in high humidity conditions and have virtually no thermal quenching at T 100 C.

In a first aspect there is provided a luminescent material activated by at least one of Eu and Ce having the following composition MMMMMMLLLL where Mcomprises one or more monovalent cations Mcomprises one or more divalent cations Mcomprises one or more trivalent elemental cations selected from the group consisting of trivalent lanthanides Y Sc In and Ce Mcomprises one or more trivalent elemental cations selected from the group consisting of Al Ga and In Mcomprises one or more tetravalent elemental cations Mcomprises one or more pentavalent elemental cations Lcomprises one or more monovalent elemental anions Lcomprises one or more divalent elemental anions Lcomprises one or more trivalent elemental anions and Lcomprises one or more tetravalent anions wherein a b c 1 2.5

In a second aspect there is provided a luminescent material activated by at least one of Eu and Ce the material having an x ray diffraction pattern exhibiting peaks having a d spacing substantially matching a predetermined list.

In a third aspect there are provided blends of the above luminescent materials with other luminescent materials.

Phosphors convert radiation energy to visible light. Different combinations of phosphors provide different colored light emissions. Novel phosphor compositions and blends are presented herein as well as their use in LED and other light sources.

The color of the generated visible light is dependent on the particular components of the phosphor material. The phosphor material may include only a single phosphor composition or two or more phosphors of basic color for example a particular mix with one or more of a green blue and red phosphor to emit a desired color tint of light. As used herein the terms phosphor phosphor material and luminescent material are used interchangeably and may be used to denote both a single composition as well as a blend of two or more compositions.

It was determined that an LED lamp that produces a white light would be useful to impart desirable qualities to LEDs as light sources. Therefore in one embodiment a luminescent material phosphor conversion material blend phosphor blend is disclosed for providing white light especially when used in LEDs. The phosphor blends presented in this embodiment enable white light with an optimal combination of CRI and LER at any CCT of interest when excited by radiation from about 250 to 500 nm as emitted by a near UV to blue green LED.

With reference to an exemplary LED based light emitting assembly or lamp is shown in accordance with one preferred structure of the present invention. The light emitting assembly comprises a semiconductor UV or visible radiation source such as a light emitting diode LED chip and leads electrically attached to the LED chip. The leads may comprise thin wires supported by a thicker lead frame s or the leads may comprise self supported electrodes and the lead frame may be omitted. The leads provide current to the LED chip and thus cause the LED chip to emit radiation.

In one embodiment a light emitting device is provided which may include any visible or UV source that is capable of producing light when its emitted radiation is coupled to the luminescent materials provided in the general embodiments of the present invention. Preferably a semiconductor light source such as an LED chip is used with a peak emission that will depend on the identity of the phosphors in the disclosed embodiments and may range from e.g. 200 500 nm. In one preferred embodiment however the emission of the LED will be in the near UV to blue green region and have a peak wavelength in the range from about 300 to about 500 nm more preferably from about 300 to about 480 nm and even more preferably 370 to 460 nm. Typically then the semiconductor light source comprises an LED doped with various impurities. Thus the LED may comprise a semiconductor diode based on any suitable III V II VI or IV IV semiconductor layers and having a peak emission wavelength of about 200 to 500 nm.

Preferably the LED may contain at least one semiconductor layer comprising GaN AlN or SiC. For example the LED may comprise a nitride compound semiconductor represented by the formula InGaAlN where 0 i 0 j 0 k and i j k 1 having a peak emission wavelength greater than about 200 nm and less than about 500 nm. Such LED semiconductors are known in the art. The radiation source is described herein as an LED for convenience. However as used herein the term is meant to encompass all semiconductor radiation sources including e.g. semiconductor laser diodes.

Although the general discussion of the exemplary structures of the invention discussed herein are directed toward inorganic LED based light sources it should be understood that the LED chip may be replaced by an organic light emissive structure or other radiation source unless otherwise noted and that any reference to LED chip or semiconductor is merely representative of any appropriate radiation source.

The LED chip may be encapsulated within a shell which encloses the LED chip and an encapsulant material . The shell may be for example glass or plastic. Preferably the LED is substantially centered in the encapsulant . The encapsulant is preferably an epoxy plastic low temperature glass polymer thermoplastic thermoset material resin or other type of LED encapsulating material as is known in the art. Optionally the encapsulant is a spin on glass or some other material having a high index of refraction. In one embodiment the encapsulant material is a polymer material such as epoxy silicone or silicone epoxy although other organic or inorganic encapsulants may be used. Both the shell and the encapsulant are preferably transparent or substantially optically transmissive with respect to the wavelength of light produced by the LED chip and a phosphor material described below . In an alternate embodiment the lamp may only comprise an encapsulant material without an outer shell . The LED chip may be supported for example by the lead frame by the self supporting electrodes the bottom of the shell or by a pedestal not shown mounted to the shell or to the lead frame.

The structure of the illumination system includes a phosphor material radiationally coupled to the LED chip . Radiationally coupled means that the elements are associated with each other so that at least part of the radiation emitted from one is transmitted to the other.

This phosphor material is deposited on the LED by any appropriate method. For example a suspension of the phosphor s can be formed and applied as a phosphor layer to the LED surface. In one such method a silicone epoxy or other matrix material is used either directly or diluted with an organic solvent e.g. acetone MIBK or butyl acetate to create a slurry in which the phosphor particles are randomly suspended and placed around the LED. This method is merely exemplary of possible positions of the phosphor material and LED . Thus the phosphor material may be coated over or directly on the light emitting surface of the LED chip by coating and drying or curing the phosphor suspension over the LED chip . Both the shell and the encapsulant should be transparent to allow light to be transmitted through those elements. Although not intended to be limiting the median particle size of the phosphor material as measured using light scattering methods or via microscope electron or optical measurements may be from about 0.5 to about 20 microns.

In any of the above structures the lamp may also include a plurality of scattering particles not shown which are embedded in the encapsulant material. The scattering particles may comprise for example AlOparticles such as alumina powder or TiOparticles. The scattering particles effectively scatter the coherent light emitted from the LED chip preferably with a negligible amount of absorption.

As shown in a fourth preferred structure in the LED chip may be mounted in a reflective cup . The cup may be made from or coated with a reflective material such as alumina titania or other dielectric powder known in the art. A preferred reflective material is AlO. The remainder of the structure of the embodiment of is the same as that of any of the previous Figures and includes two leads a conducting wire electrically connecting the LED chip with the second lead and an encapsulant material .

Another preferred structure particularly for backlight applications is a surface mounted device SMD type light emitting diode e.g. as shown in . This SMD is of a side emitting type and has a light emitting window on a protruding portion of a light guiding member . The SMD type light emitting diodes can be made by disposing LEDs that have been formed beforehand by flow soldering or the like on a glass epoxy substrate whereon an electrically conductive pattern has been formed and covering said LED with the window . There are also top emitting SMD packages known in the art that are also suitable for use in the present embodiments e.g. those produced by Nichia Corporation. An SMD package may comprise an LED chip as defined above and a phosphor material as discussed below that is excited by the light emitted from the LED chip.

In a general embodiment there is provided a phosphor that is believed to have a novel crystal structure as determined by x ray diffraction. Experiments that have led to the invention described here have shown that a phase hitherto unknown is present. X ray diffraction analyses carried out on this novel powder within the BaO SiO SiNsystem yield a characteristic X ray powder diagram which is shown in table 1. This table gives for a number of reflections the d values for lattice spacings in Angstroms and the intensity normalized to the maximum intensity which is set at 100 . An X ray powder diagram as is known characteristic of and reproducible for the crystalline phase of the substance concerned.

There is an understanding that due to differences in the treatment of specific samples small variations can occur in particular for the intensity ratios. In addition there can be shifts in the d values within this type of material due to the presence of additional ions and or changes in the stoichiometry which modify the crystal lattice parameters. It is possible to substitute other cations or anions and or alter the stoichiometry in this material while retaining the same crystal structure. The X ray powder diagram will be substantially the same as the materials within the BaO SiO SiNsystem with shifts in the d values e.g. to within 5 depending upon the size of the cations anions and the extent of substitution and or non stoichiometry. There may also be changes in the intensity ratios which can also be dependent upon the exact treatment of specific samples as is known. One such example is the texturing of powder samples known in the prior art that can enhance specific diffraction peaks relative to others.

The structure solution from powder X ray data was done by the direct space approach using the FOX program http objcryst.sourceforge.net Fox using the lowest symmetry with space group P1 . The positional parameters of the heavy atom Ba obtained from this attempt clearly indicated m Laue symmetry. Space group P ml 164 was selected based on this analysis for further completion and the structure was refined of structure using the GSAS program A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele General Structure Analysis System GSAS Los Alamos National Laboratory Report LAUR 86 748 2000 . . The Si atom position located using a difference Fourier approach is in agreement with this symmetry. The cell parameters for a material with a nominal composition of BaEuSiNOwere refined using this space group with a 7.5312 c 6.4969. However since the space group is selected based on positional parameters of heavy atoms alone it is possible that the lighter atoms like oxygen nitrogen may not follow the same symmetry and the actual space group could be different once the positions of all the atoms in the unit cell are found. However as known in the art the X ray powder diagram diffraction pattern is sufficient for the identification of any given phase including the one described above.

For all practical purposes phase identification of the materials described in this application can be achieved by examining an experimental XRD powder pattern against the first 12 peaks in Table 1. It should be remembered that peaks with higher d values correspond to lower angles when the X ray diffraction pattern is plotted in a two theta format as customary in the art and that peak positions in the latter format are a function of the X ray wavelength unlike the d values. For example the first 12 peaks from Table 1 will correspond to the range of from about 10 to about 52 degrees in and and would be sufficient to identify the novel phase described herein. Impurity peaks e.g. from unreacted raw materials in experimental data sets are marked with asterisks as also customary in the art. The latter peaks are easily identified e.g. by comparison against the known patterns of the raw materials in the existing XRD databases such as the Powder Diffraction File PDF of the International Centre for Diffraction Data ICDD .

In another general embodiment there is provided a novel phosphor material which may be used in the above described devices. The phosphor material is a green emitting Eu and or Ce activated phosphor having the following composition MMMMMMLLLL where Mcomprises one or more monovalent cations Mcomprises one or more divalent cations that necessarily includes Eu Mcomprises one or more trivalent elemental cations that can include trivalent lanthanides Y Sc In and Ce Mcomprises one or more trivalent elemental cations that can include Al Ga In Mcomprises one or more tetravalent elemental cations Mcomprises one or more pentavalent elemental cations Lcomprises one or more monovalent elemental anions Lcomprises one or more divalent elemental anions Lcomprises one or more trivalent elemental anions and Lcomprises one or more of tetravalent anions such as C wherein a b c 1 2.5

When used with an LED chip with a peak wavelength emitting at from 200 to 500 nm more preferably 300 to 500 nm the use of the above phosphor allows for a green emitting lighting device. In one embodiment the phosphor will have a emission peak in the range of from about 520 to 530 nm. When used with such a chip and one or more additional phosphors such as red and blue emitting phosphors the use of the above phosphor material allows for a white LED. The additional phosphors that can be used with the above described phosphors are described in more detail below.

In another general embodiment there is provided a novel phosphor material which may be used in the above described devices. The phosphor material is a green emitting Eu and or Ce activated phosphor containing at least Si N and O. The material may preferably contain Ba. It may also contain at least one of Cl F and S. In one aspect it may contain at least one of the group consisting of Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn and Mn at least one of the group consisting of Li Na K Rb and Cs at least one of the group consisting of a RE rare earth Y and Sc and at least one of the group consisting of B Al P Si Ge and Ga.

In one embodiment the phosphor or luminescent material has the formula Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Mn EuSiONwhere 0.5 a 1 2.5 c 3.5 3 d 5 1.5 e 2.5 a b 1 and 2 4c 2d 3e. In one aspect of this embodiment the molar ratio of Ba Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Eu Mn 0.5. In another aspect of this embodiment 2.8 c 3.2 3.5 d 4.5 1.75 e 2.25. In yet another aspect b 0.1.

In a second embodiment the phosphor or luminescent material has the formula Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Mn Eu Li Na K RE Y Sc SiONwhere 0.5 a 1 b 0 2.5 e 3.5 3 f 5 1.5 g 2.5 a b c d 1 RE is a rare earth and 2a 2b c 3d 4e 2f 3g. In one aspect of this embodiment the molar ratio of Ba Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Eu Mn 0.5. In another aspect of this embodiment 2.8 e 3.2 3.5 f 4.5 1.75 g 2.25. In yet another aspect b 0.1. In still another aspect c 0.2.

In another embodiment the phosphor or luminescent material has the formula Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Mn EuAlSiONwhere 0.5 a 1 b 0 2.5 d 3.5 3 e 5 1.5 f 2.5 a b 1 and 2a 2b 3c 4d 2e 3f. In one aspect of this embodiment the molar ratio of Ba Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Eu Mn 0.6. In yet another aspect b 0.1. In still another aspect c 0.9.

In still another embodiment the phosphor or luminescent material has the formula Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Mn Eu RE Y Sc AlSiONwhere 0.5 a0 2.5

In yet another embodiment the phosphor or luminescent material has the formula Ba Sr Ca Mg Zn Mn Eu Li Na K PSiONwhere 0.5 a0 2.5

The above described phosphor composition can be prepared by taking appropriate raw materials in a ratio sufficient to ensure the desired incorporation level of the activator ion e.g. between 0.1 and 30 mol. of the total content more preferably between 1 and 10 mol . In an exemplary preparation method the raw materials are mixed together in an aqueous solution and stirred. The sample is then fired in a reducing atmosphere. The crude phosphor may be then milled preferably dry milled to a desired particle size washed with an organic solvent e.g. ethanol or acetone and dried prior to use.

A variety of other starting materials and procedures may be used to produce the phosphor in this embodiment.

Thus the above described phosphor compositions may be produced using known solid state reaction processes for the production of phosphors by combining for example elemental nitrides oxides carbonates and or hydroxides as starting materials. Alternately coprecipitates of hydroxides oxalates carbonates and the like could be used as the starting materials for the RE elements. Si is typically provided via silicic acid but other sources such as fumed silica may also be used. In a typical process the starting materials are combined via a dry or wet blending process and fired in air or under a reducing atmosphere at from e.g. 1000 to 1600 C.

Additional compounds i.e. fluxes may be added to the mixture before or during the step of mixing. Numerous materials are known in the art to improve the quantum efficiency of phosphor materials. Examples of such materials include boron containing compounds e.g. LiBO LiBO Borax HBO BO etc. and halide containing compounds e.g. AlF NHC NHBr NHF NH CaCl CaBr CaF SrCl SrBr SrF BaCl BaBr BaF etc. . In addition it is known that alkali metals such as Na and Li can be used as fluxes as well in the synthesis. This list is meant to be instructive not exhaustive. Other potential fluxes that have been used to improve phosphor efficiency are discussed in by W. M. Yen and M. J. Weber. The fluxes detailed in that book are included herein by reference.

When using these materials as fluxing agents it is possible that part of the flux constituents become incorporated into the host material. The herein described phosphor formulations are intended to include alterations to the phosphor composition by the incorporation of such fluxing materials even if not specifically disclosed.

A quantity of a fluxing agent of less than about 20 preferably less than about 5 percent by weight of the total weight of the mixture is adequate for fluxing purposes.

The starting materials may be mixed together by any mechanical method including but not limited to stirring or blending in a high speed blender or a ribbon blender. The starting materials may be combined and pulverized together in a ball mill a hammer mill or a jet mill. The mixing may be carried out by wet milling especially when the mixture of the starting materials is to be made into a solution for subsequent precipitation. If the mixture is wet it may be dried first before being fired under a reducing atmosphere at a temperature from about 900 C. to about 1700 C. preferably from about 1000 C. to about 1600 C. for a time sufficient to convert all of the mixture to the final composition.

The firing may be conducted in a batchwise or continuous process preferably with a stirring or mixing action to promote good gas solid contact. The firing time depends on the quantity of the mixture to be fired the rate of gas conducted through the firing equipment and the quality of the gas solid contact in the firing equipment. The reducing atmosphere typically comprises a reducing gas such as hydrogen carbon monoxide ammonia or a combination thereof optionally diluted with an inert gas such as nitrogen argon etc. or a combination thereof. Alternatively the crucible containing the mixture may be packed in a second closed crucible containing high purity carbon particles and fired in air so that the carbon particles react with the oxygen present in air thereby generating carbon monoxide for providing a reducing atmosphere.

These compounds may be blended and dissolved in a nitric acid solution. The strength of the acid solution is chosen to rapidly dissolve the oxygen containing compounds and the choice is within the skill of a person skilled in the art. Ammonium hydroxide is then added in increments to the acidic solution. An organic base such as methylamine ethylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine or the like may be used in place of ammonium hydroxide.

The precipitate may be filtered washed with deionized water and dried. The dried precipitate may then be ball milled or otherwise thoroughly blended and then calcined in air at about 400 C. to about 1600 C. for a sufficient time to ensure a substantially complete dehydration of the starting material. The calcination may be carried out at a constant temperature. Alternatively the calcination temperature may be ramped from ambient to and held at the final temperature for the duration of the calcination. The calcined material is similarly fired at 1000 1600 C. for a sufficient time under a reducing atmosphere such as H CO or a mixture of one of theses gases with an inert gas or an atmosphere generated by a reaction between a coconut charcoal and the products of the decomposition of the starting materials to covert all of the calcined material to the desired phosphor composition.

The resulting phosphor particles may preferably have median diameters d ranging from 0.5 30 m as determined by light scattering analysis or microscopy measurements.

While suitable for use alone with a blue or UV LED chip the above phosphor compositions may be blended with one or more additional phosphors for use in white light sources. Thus in another embodiment an LED lighting assembly is provided including a phosphor composition comprising a blend of the above phosphor with one or more additional phosphors.

When used in combination with other phosphor compositions to produce a white light the relative amounts of each phosphor in the phosphor material can be described in terms of spectral weight. The spectral weight is the relative amount that each phosphor composition contributes to the overall emission spectra of the phosphor blend. The spectral weight amounts of all the individual phosphors should add up to 1. A preferred blend comprises a spectral weight of from 0.01 to 0.80 of the present embodiment phosphor from 0 to 0.70 of an optional phosphor having a peak emission from about 430 to 500 nm which may not be needed for excitation with a blue or blue green LED having a peak emission from about 430 to about 500 nm and the balance of the blend being a red phosphor as needed to achieve a targeted color point and CCT value. Any known phosphors suitable for use in near UV to green LED systems and emitting in the above wavelength ranges may be used.

It should be noted that various phosphors are described herein in which different elements enclosed in parentheses and separated by commas such as in the case of Ba Sr Ca SiO Eu. As understood by those skilled in the art this type of notation means that the phosphor can include any or all of those specified elements in the formulation in any ratio. That is this type of notation for the above phosphor for example has the same meaning as BaSrCa SiO Eu where a and b can vary from 0 to 1 including the values of 0 and 1.

A green emitting phosphor according to the present embodiment may be used to prepare a backlight LED in conjunction with at least a red emitting phosphor and either a a blue LED chip e.g. with a peak emission wavelength between 440 and 470 nm or b a blue emitting phosphor e.g. with a peak emission wavelength between 440 and 470 nm and a violet to near UV emitting LED chip e.g. having a peak emission wavelength from about 370 nm to about 440 nm .

Preferred non limiting examples of suitable red emitting phosphors include alkaline earth nitridosilicates doped with Eu II and or Ce III and complex fluorides or oxyfluorides doped with Mn IV . Specific particularly preferred compositions are listed further below.

Preferred non limiting examples of a suitable blue emitting phosphor include alkaline earth haloapatites doped with Eu II e.g. Sr PO Cl Eu. Other specific compositions are listed further below.

Other preferred blend phosphors include alkaline earth silicates doped with Eu II alkaline earth aluminates doped with Eu II and garnets doped with Ce III .

In addition other phosphors emitting throughout the visible spectrum region at wavelengths substantially different from those of the phosphors described in the present invention may be used in the blend to customize the white color of the resulting light and produce sources with improved light quality. While not intended to be limiting suitable phosphors for use in the blend with the present phosphors include 

For purposes of the present application it should be understood that when a phosphor has two or more dopant ions i.e. those ions following the colon in the above compositions and separated with a comma this is to mean that the phosphor has at least one but not necessarily all of those dopant ions within the material. That is as understood by those skilled in the art this type of notation means that the phosphor can include any or all of those specified ions as dopants in the formulation.

When the phosphor composition includes a blend of two or more phosphors the ratio of each of the individual phosphors in the phosphor blend may vary depending on the characteristics of the desired light output. The relative proportions of the individual phosphors in the various embodiment phosphor blends may be adjusted such that when their emissions are blended and employed in an lighting device there is produced visible light of predetermined x and y values on the CIE chromaticity diagram. As stated a white light is preferably produced. This white light may for instance may possess an x value in the range of about 0.30 to about 0.55 and a y value in the range of about 0.30 to about 0.55. Preferably the color point of the white light will lie on or substantially on the Planckian also known as the blackbody locus e.g. within 0.020 units in the vertical y direction of the CIE 1931 chromaticity diagram more preferably within 0.010 units in the vertical direction. As stated however the identity and amounts of each phosphor in the phosphor composition can be varied according to the needs of the end user. Since the efficiency of individual phosphors may vary widely between suppliers the exact amounts of each phosphor needed are best determined empirically e.g. through standard design of experiment DOE techniques.

It may be desirable to add pigments or filters to the phosphor composition. When the LED is a UV emitting LED the phosphor layer may also comprise from 0 up to about 10 by weight based on the total weight of the phosphors of a pigment or other UV absorbent material capable of absorbing or reflecting UV radiation having a wavelength between 200 nm and 500 nm.

Suitable pigments or filters include any of those known in the art that are capable of absorbing radiation generated between 200 nm and 500 nm. Such pigments include for example nickel titanate or praseodymium zirconate. The pigment may be used in an amount effective to filter 10 to 100 of the radiation generated in the 200 nm to 500 nm range.

The raw materials of 13.49 g BaCO 8.90 g ZnO 2.64 g silicic acid 8.86 g SiN and 0.48 g EuOwere dry mixed for 2 hrs with zirconia media. The sample was fired in a Mo crucible at 1300 C. in a 0.75 H balance Natmosphere for six hours. The sample was then ground using a mortar and pestle and washed in hot water for 1 hour. After this x ray fluorescence measurements found that the Zn concentration in this powder was 

Various phosphor formulations were produced. The raw materials used to make these phosphors were BaCO SiO SiN EuO. The samples were formulated such that the molar ratio of Si Ba Eu 3 and SiO SiN 3. The exact formulation and appropriate amounts of raw materials for examples 2 6 are given below.

BaEuSiNOphosphor. The following amounts 2.628 g of BaCO 0.124 g of EuO 1.558 g of SiOand 0.985 g of SiNwere weighted out and processed further as given in the procedure below.

BaEuSiNOphosphor. The following amounts 2.935 g of BaCO 0.0248 g of EuO 1.558 g of SiOand 0.985 g of SiNwere weighted out and processed further as given in the procedure below.

BaEuSiNOphosphor. The following amounts 2.684 g of BaCO 0.0746 g of EuO 1.558 g of SiOand 0.985 g of SiNwere weighted out and processed further as given in the above procedure.

BaEuSiNOphosphor. The following amounts 2.559 g of BaCO 0.1864 g of EuO 1.558 g of SiOand 0.985 g of SiNwere weighted out and processed further as given in the above procedure

BaEuSiNOphosphor. The following amounts 2.490 g of BaCO 0.2486 g of EuO 1.558 g of SiOand 0.985 g of SiNwere weighted out and processed further as given in the above procedure

These powders were dry mixed for 3 hrs with zirconia media. The sample is fired in a alumina crucible at 1300 C. in a 1 Hin 99 Natmosphere for 10 hours. Upon completion of firing the cake was milled to a dvalue of 10 microns as determined by light scattering methods Horiba LA 910 . The emission wavelength versus Eu concentration is given is shown in the Example phosphor maximum emission table below Table 3 following the examples .

The phosphor BaEuSiNO Example 2 exhibits minimal thermal quenching at higher temperatures as shown in Table 2 below.

The X ray diffraction pattern for Example 2 is given in and shows the desired phase along with small traces of residual SiNwithin this material. The SiNpeaks are marked with asterisks.

Various phosphor formulations were produced to make 10 g batches. The raw materials used to make these sample phosphors were BaCO SrCOSiO via silicic acid SiN EuOand were dry mixed for 3 hrs with zirconia media. The samples were formulated such that the molar ratio of Si Ba Eu Sr 3 and SiO SiN 3. The samples were fired in an alumina crucible at 1300 C. in a 1 Hin 99 Natmosphere for 10 hours. Upon completion of firing the cake was milled to a dvalue of 10 microns as determined by the light scattering method Horiba LA 910 . The wavelength shift with Sr addition to this phosphor can be seen in the Example phosphor maximum emission table 3. The X ray diffraction pattern for the Example 10 phosphor is given in and shows the desired phase along with residual SiNwithin this material. The SiNpeaks are marked with asterisks.

Various phosphor formulations were produced to make 10 g batches. The raw materials used to make the compositions detailed in the table below were BaCO LaO YO LiCO NaCO KCO SiO via silicic acid SiN and EuO. These components were formulated such that the molar ratio of SiO SiNwas 3 1 and were dry mixed for 3 hrs with zirconia media. The samples are fired in a alumina crucible at 1300 C. in a 1 Hin 99 Natmosphere for 10 hours. Upon completion of firing the green cake was milled to a dvalue of 10 microns as determined by light scattering methods Horiba LA 910 . The emission maximum versus composition is given in table 3. The X ray diffraction pattern for Example 16 is given in and shows the desired phase with traces of residual SiNwithin this material. The SiNpeaks are marked with asterisks.

Light sources using phosphor blends according to the above embodiments may be produced. Two different exemplary prophetic trials are presented. In a first trial a triphosphor blend of Ca Sr Ba PO Cl Eu SECA SrCeEuNa SiN SCESN and the new phosphor from Example 1 was used. By varying the relative amounts of each phosphor in the blend various blends having any desired CCT value between 2500 K and 10 000 K can be made. The luminous efficacy and CRI R of various CCT blends are shown in table 4 below. shows the simulated emission spectrum of a blend according to the above embodiment having a color temperature of 2700 K. Thus it can be seen how the present invention allows one to easily tune the CCT of a white light device by altering the amounts of the individual phosphors in a phosphor blend all the while maintaining very high Rvalues 90 or greater .

Similarly a second prophetic trial using a phosphor blend containing the red phosphor KSiF Mn and the new phosphor from Example 1 along with a blue emitting LED having a peak wavelength of 450 nm was conducted. As with the first blend altering the relative amount of each phosphor as well as controlling the amount of LED bleed through allows one to generate various CCT value lamps. shows the calculated emission spectrum of a 6500 K backlight device according to this embodiment. The inclusion of deep red phosphors is such as those listed in commonly owned U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 100824 filed on Feb. 26 2007 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0205712 filed on Feb. 13 2007 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference is desirable. One preferred example of such a phosphor is KSiF Mn.

Apart from white light blends for general illumination these phosphors can be used either individually or in blends for LEDs for traffic signals signage and particularly for LCD backlighting applications. The green emission allows for a saturated color that is highly desirable for these applications.

The phosphor materials described above may be used in additional applications besides LEDs. For example the material may be used as a phosphor in a fluorescent lamp in a cathode ray tube in a plasma display device or in a liquid crystal display LCD . These uses are meant to be merely exemplary and not exhaustive.

The present development has been described with reference to various exemplary embodiments. Modifications and alteration will occur to others upon a reading and understanding of this specification. The invention is intended to include all such modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalent thereof.

