---

title: DNA vaccine
abstract: The present invention relates to a DNA vaccine consisting of a vector expressing a part or the whole of a polypeptide regulating production of an inflammatory cytokine, a pharmaceutical composition comprising the DNA vaccine, and a method of preventing or treating an inflammatory disease by using the pharmaceutical composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08053231&OS=08053231&RS=08053231
owner: 
number: 08053231
owner_city: Hokkaido
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070403
---
The present invention relates to a DNA vaccine consisting of a vector expressing a part or the whole of a polypeptide regulating production of an inflammatory cytokine a pharmaceutical composition comprising the DNA vaccine and a method of preventing or treating inflammatory diseases by using the pharmaceutical composition.

Cytokines are biologically active substances produced by various cells including immune cells. It is also known that one cytokine shows various bioactivities and participates in biological defense such as antiviral action and antitumor action by enhancing immune cells such as lymphocytes macrophages NK cells and neutrophils. Cytokines have a feature of acting on one another to contribute to maintenance of homeostasis for biological defense. However it is noted that cytokines have an action of inducing inflammations and participate in formation of pathologic conditions of various diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis autoimmune diseases allergic diseases fulminant hepatitis malignant tumors diabetes and arteriosclerosis. As these diseases become more advanced cytokines particularly called inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin 1 IL 1 interleukin 2 IL 2 interleukin 6 IL 6 tumor necrosis factor TNF and interferon IFN become induced and detected in blood and tissue Jiro Imanishi Igaku No Ayumi Development of Medicine 181 750 1997 .

On one hand macrophage migration inhibitory factor abbreviated hereinafter as MIF found in 1966 Bloom B R et al. Science 153 80 1966 as a factor to inhibit migration of macrophages in a culture supernatant of lymphocytes from a guinea pig activated by antigen sensitization has been studied for a long time because thereafter its various functions such as isomerase activity oxidoreductase activity etc. were rediscovered and MIF was found widely in living things ranging from nematodes to vertebrates. At present MIF is known to be a special peptidic biological active substance which is involved in both natural immunity and acquired immunity for production of cytokines participating in biological defense and which has a plurality of enzyme activities in the same molecule Rosengren E. et al. Mol. Med. 2 143 149 1996 Kleemann R. et al. J. Mol. Biol. 280 85 102 1998 . However there is no report showing the relationship between these enzyme activities and immunity.

Usually cytokines are expressed by transcription from genes in the intranuclear genome upon induction with stimulation and produced as proteins one by one by immunocytes. On the other hand MIF is characterized in that it is previously stored like hormone in cells and upon external stimulation with an endotoxin or the like is secreted from a plurality of local tissues including an anterior pituitary gland. Macrophages or T cells stimulated with MIF are not suppressed by glucocorticoids so MIF is reported to be a biologically active substance counteracting the immunoreaction suppressed by glucocorticoids Calandra T . et al. Nature 377 68 71 1995 .

It is reported that MIF receptors occur on cell surfaces but this is not necessarily evident. In this relation it is known that MIF is incorporated for example by endocytosis into cells and binds to Jab1 that is a protein in the cytoplasm Kleemann R. et al. Nature 408 211 216 2000 .

Recently DNA vaccine is developed by the advancement of genetic engineering technology. The DNA vaccine is generally a vaccine using a recombinant plasmid and a recombinant plasmid comprising a DNA encoding a target antigen is administered to the living body whereby an amino acid sequence with antigenicity encoded by the DNA is expressed in the living body and an immunoreaction is induced by this amino acid sequence. However even if a certain specific plasmid DNA is administered to the living body the degree of immunoreaction induced is not constant and the degree of immunoreaction varies depending on the type of test animal the type of DNA and an inoculation method and it is generally difficult to predict whether the DNA plasmid is useful as DNA vaccine. Under these circumstances it is attempted to use for example interleukin 5 IL 5 as DNA vaccine for asthma etc. Hertz M. et al. J. Immnol. 167 3792 3799 2001 .

In order that those skilled in the art engaged in drug development to target a receptor on a cell surface develop a drug for suppressing MIF for example there is usually only a method of developing not a receptor antagonist but an antibody acting directly on MIF or a method of searching a substance binding to an intracellular receptor. Actually a polyclonal antibody and a monoclonal antibody have been developed and reported to be effective against sepsis or fulminant hepatitis induced by an endotoxin Bernhagen J Calandra T Mitchell R A et al. MIF is a pituitary derived cytokine that potentiates lethal endotoxaemia. Nature 1993 365 756 9. Kobayashi S Nishihira J Watanabe S et al. Prevention of lethal acute hepatic failure by antimacrophage migration inhibitory factor antibody in mice treated with bacille Calmette Guerin and lipopolysaccharide. Hepatology 1999 29 1752 9 . A rheumatic model experiment of Bernhagen et al. is known as a study in which an antigen was administered to a model animal Bernhagen J. et. al. Regulation of the immune response by macrophage migration inhibitory factor biological and structural features. J. Mol. Med. 76 151 161 1998 .

Generally there are neutralizing antibodies against inflammatory cytokines among which cytokines released by Th1 cells is particularly inflammatory and such cytokines include interferon IFN IL 2 and lymphotoxin LT . The activity of Th1 in autoimmune diseases and in the inflammatory promoting action of IFN gamma is involved in a large number of autoimmune diseases and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis RA multiple sclerosis MS and Crohn disease against which neutralizing antibodies against inflammatory cytokines such as IL 1 IL 2 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 10 and IL 13 are effective. A combination of IL 1 and IL 6 is known to be related to bone destruction in myeloma against which cytokine neutralizing antibodies Kawano et al Nature 332 83 1988 and cytokine receptor antibodies anti IL 6 antibody etc. are known to be effective. Recently various monoclonal antibodies have been produced and used in treatment of for example rheumatoid arthritis. Actually an anti cytokine therapy using a biological preparation targeting at TNF carried out for a patient with rheumatoid arthritis has already been practically used. The cytokines are recognized by specific receptors to show their action so unless the cytokines are recognized by receptors on target cells no inflammatory reaction is generated. From this viewpoint soluble receptors for inflammatory cytokines such as TNF IFN IL 1 IL 2 and IL 6 are used. That is the presence of the soluble receptors prevents the cytokines from binding to their inherent receptors. However this method cannot be applied to MIF because its receptor is not found on a cell surface. In addition mass production of an anti MIF antibody is difficult because of the toxicity of MIF itself so it is considered that the development of a pharmaceutical preparation of the anti MIF antibody is difficult for the time being.

Nonspecific inflammatory bowel diseases hereinafter abbreviated as IBD such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease are intractable diseases of uncertain cause. Ulcerative colitis is an ulcer forming inflammatory disease of mainly the large intestine and Crohn disease is a granulomatous lesion and can occur in any sites in the intestine. The therapy of IBD is mainly drug therapy with a steroid agent or salazopyrine. Particularly the effectiveness of the steroid agent has been established but the dose administration method adverse effect and accessibility of the drug remain problematic and have been examined. For example in intractable cases or severe cases of ulcerative colitis systemic conditions are worse with anemia hypoproteinemia and adverse effects such as diarrhea are also caused by administering the drug over a prolonged period. Accordingly the improvement of systemic conditions by terminating the progress of inflammation and subsequent operation are considered to contribute to reduction of death rate and from this viewpoint intraarterial infusional therapy with steroid has been attempted by Baba et al. In the intraarterial infusional therapy with steroid however nullification examples are about 30 that is a considerable rate and a reduction in efficacy ratio upon re administration is also recognized and inflammatory bowel diseases other than ulcerative colitis have not been examined and thus Yagita et al. formulated intraarterial infusional therapy of combined use of steroid and ulinastatin and reported good results in IBD as the object Akikuni Yagita et al. the Journal of the Japanese Practical Surgeon Society 49 p. 590 596 1988 . Further such drugs having an inhibitory action on cytokine production are reported to be effective against formation of pathologic conditions of inflammatory bowel diseases particularly in treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases showing high levels during the active stages of cytokines particularly TNF IL 6 and IL 8 Akikuni Yagita Gastroenterological Surgery 16 p. 1931 1943 1993 . However arterial injection is an administration method with risk and thus there is demand for a therapeutic strategy with less invasion.

Administration of an anti inflammatory agent such as NSAID or steroid is effective against rheumatoid arthritis. A neutralizing antibody against inflammatory cytokine is effective in radical treatment. Actually an anti cytokine therapy using a biological preparation targeting at TNF in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis has already been practically used. However problems such as adverse effect and production of an antibody against the therapeutic antibody are inevitable and there is a disadvantage that only severely ill patients are therapeutic objectives and thus there is demand for development of a therapeutic strategy directed to patients having light symptoms.

Assuming that MIF is a gate keeper fulfilling a role in a first stage of biological defense reaction the inventors intensively advanced analysis study of patients with inflammatory diseases including autoimmune diseases and as a result they found a phenomenon that against MIF occurring in blood of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and patients with ulcerative colitis the amount of antibodies having an ability to neutralize its activity is significantly low. Accordingly the inventors developed a DNA vaccine and formulated treatment strategy of producing antibodies in the patients themselves and could confirmed effectiveness in an animal experiment. The present invention was completed on the basis of such finding.

The present invention provides a vaccine for a part or the whole of a polypeptide of an enzyme or peptidic hormone regulating production of inflammatory cytokines indicated to participate in forming pathologic conditions of various potential inflammatory diseases or diseases accompanied by inflammations as well as a pharmaceutical composition comprising the same and further provides a method of preventing or treating inflammatory diseases and autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn disease.

By administering the DNA vaccine of the present invention the antibody titer of an antibody against a polypeptide at which the vaccine targets can be increased and thus the DNA vaccine of the present invention a pharmaceutical composition comprising the same and a method of using the same are useful for prevention or treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ulcerative colitis etc.

A first aspect of the invention provides a DNA vaccine comprising a vector comprising at least one gene unit encoding a part or the whole of a polypeptide inducing or producing an inflammatory cytokine. When the DNA vaccine of the present invention is administered to mammals including humans the polypeptide encoded by the gene unit in the DNA vaccine of the present invention is synthesized in the living body and this polypeptide acts as an antigen to give rise to immunity. Accordingly immunization with the DNA vaccine of the present invention is effective in prevention and treatment of diseases associated with the polypeptide inducing or producing an inflammatory cytokine. In this specification the vaccine means a substance capable of generating an immune response. Accordingly the DNA vaccine refers to a DNA acting as a substance capable of generating an immune response among vaccines that is a DNA acting as vaccine. As used herein the gene unit refers to the portion of a gene sequence that is necessary for constituting the DNA vaccine and examples of the gene unit include a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide serving as an antigen or the site at which the polypeptide is recognized as an antigen a polynucleotide encoding a signal peptide promoting secretion of the polypeptide a polynucleotide encoding a Th epitope having an enhancing action on immunoreactivity a peptide having a length of about 15 to about 50 amino acid residues U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 551 . The DNA vaccine of the present invention can have in the vector DNA one or more gene units for enhancing the activity of a target of the vaccine or the activity of the vaccine.

The inflammatory cytokines at which the DNA vaccine of the present invention targets include MIF tumor necrosis factor TNF interferon IL interleukin 1 IL 1 interleukin 2 IL 2 and interleukin 6 IL 6 and the polypeptide inducing or producing these inflammatory cytokines include MIF tumor necrosis factor TNF interferon IL interleukin 1 IL 1 interleukin 2 IL 2 and interleukin 6 IL 6 . In the present invention MIF is preferably selected as the inflammatory cytokine inducible polypeptide. An enzyme inducing or producing the inflammatory cytokine can include for example there are no illustrative substances a genetic polymorphism of MIF involved in symptoms of psoriasis Donn R P et al. J. Invest. Dermatol. September 2004 123 3 484 7 .

The amino acid sequences of MIFs are known in humans BC013976 SEQ ID NO 1 in mice BC024895 SEQ ID NO 3 and in rats NM031051 SEQ ID NO 2 . Among these amino acid sequences human MIF is particularly preferably used in the present invention.

As used herein the MIF derived peptide is a peptide having 80 or more preferably 90 or more more preferably 95 or more still more preferably 97 or more identity with human MIF SEQ ID NO 1 and includes peptides comprising 1 an amino acid sequence from which one or more amino acids preferably about 1 to 30 amino acids more preferably 1 to 10 amino acids still more preferably several for example 1 to 6 amino acids were deleted 2 an amino acid sequence to which one or more amino acids preferably about 1 to 30 amino acids more preferably 1 to 10 amino acids still more preferably several for example 1 to 6 amino acids were added 3 an amino acid sequence wherein one or more amino acids preferably about 1 to 30 amino acids more preferably 1 to 10 amino acids still more preferably several for example 1 to 6 amino acids were replaced by other amino acids or 4 an amino acid sequence consisting of a combination of the above amino acid sequences.

The polypeptide of the present invention may be a protein derived from cells of humans or other warm blooded animals for example guinea pig rat mouse chicken rabbit pig sheep bovine monkey etc. or from any tissues in which such cells are present or may be a synthetic protein synthesized by genetic engineering or with a commercially available peptide synthesizer.

A part or the whole of the gene encoding the above polypeptide is used as the DNA vaccine. As used herein the term a part of the gene refers to that region of the gene which upon administration as the vaccine is necessary for producing an antibody against the polypeptide and the region of the target gene that encodes a peptide region consisting of several about 1 to 10 amino acids or the whole of the peptide region is used as a part of the gene .

The DNA used in the present invention holds a nucleotide sequence such that the target protein for example human MIF encoded by the nucleotide sequence can be expressed in the living body. The DNA used in the present invention is a DNA consisting of an expression vector linked with a nucleotide sequence encoding the target protein for example human MIF . The expression vector is preferably a plasmid vector. The vector useful in preparation of the expression plasmid includes but is not limited to vectors containing a constitutive promoter an inducible promoter a tissue specific promoter or various promoters.

Specific examples of the constitutive promoter include for example potent promoters derived from viruses such as promoters derived from cytomegalovirus CMV Rous sarcoma virus RSV simian virus 40 SV40 and herpes simplex virus HSV . Specific examples of the tissue specific promoter include muscular actin promoter. The inducible or regulatory promoter includes for example a growth hormone regulatory promoter a promoter under the control of lac operon sequence an antibiotic inducible promoter and a zinc inducible metallothionein promoter.

The vector used in the present invention preferably comprises an expression regulatory sequence containing a promoter for example the above constitutive or inducible promoter DNA sequence. The vector may further comprises an enhancer element an RNA processing sequence such as an intron sequence for transcription or splicing of a polyadenylation signal derived from for example SV40 or bovine growth hormone BGH a signal sequence for secretion of an expression protein or two or more copies of an immune stimulating DNA sequence known as CpG motif. The vector may comprise a bacterial sequence of replication origin and or a DNA sequence for a selective marker which can be used in antibiotic resistance for example kanamycin or non antibiotic resistance for example galactosidase gene .

The DNA used in the present invention may have not only a nucleotide sequence encoding the target protein for example human MIF but also one or more other nucleotide sequences. Specific examples of such other nucleotide sequences include a sequence encoding the Th epitope and a signal peptide for secretion for example a signal peptide derived from tumor necrosis factor TNF or interleukin 5 IL 5 . MIF does not have a secretory signal and thus a gene unit encoding MIF can be used in combination with a gene unit encoding a signal peptide in order to promote secretion of MIF expressed.

The Th epitope according to a report of Hertz et al. J. Immunol. 167 3792 3799 2001 produces immunological tolerance by inclusion of its sequence in an antigen and thus human MIF itself for example can be well used as vaccine. Accordingly a sequence encoding the Th epitope is preferably substituted for a part for example a loop sequence of the sequence of the target polypeptide. A peptide having such action includes not only the Th epitope but also a partial sequence of hen egg lysozyme see Nature 328 6129 395 399 1987 and a partial sequence of ovalbumin see J. Immunol. 137 3 911 915 1986 . These peptides similar to the Th epitope can also be used in the DNA vaccine of the present invention.

When a plasmid DNA is used as vector the DNA having a nucleotide sequence encoding the target protein for example human MIF can be prepared in a large amount in a usual manner. For example a host bacterium is transformed the resulting transformant is cultured in a large amount and from the culture the plasmid DNA can be recovered by techniques known to those skilled in the art such as an alkaline lysis method. The DNA used in the method of the present invention is preferably a purified plasmid DNA.

2. Pharmaceutical Composition Comprising the DNA Vaccine and a Prophylactic Therapeutic Method Using the Same

The DNA vaccine of the present invention can be provided for example in the form of a pharmaceutical composition prepared by blending with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant etc. According to the second aspect of the invention there can be provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising the DNA vaccine described above. According to the third aspect of the invention there can be provided a method for preventing or treating an inflammatory disease which comprises administering an effective amount of the DNA vaccine or the pharmaceutical composition thereby achieving an effective antibody titer at which the vaccine targets.

The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier used in the present invention is suitable for transfection of DNA vaccine into cells of the living body. Specific examples of such pharmaceutically acceptable carrier include known transfection reagents such as cationic liposome fluorocarbon emulsion cochleate tubule gold particles biodegradable microspheres or cationic polymers. Those skilled in the art can use such transfection reagent to suitably formulate the DNA used in the present invention.

The liposome preferably used in the present invention includes a commercially available liposome and a liposome containing either a cationic lipid or a cationic polymer. The liposome used in a preferable mode of the invention is a liposome containing a mixture of a neutral lipid such as dioleylphosphatidyl ethanolamine DOPE or cholesterol and a cationic lipid. A process for producing such liposome is known to those skilled in the art. The cationic polymer unlike the cationic lipid does not have an ester linkage and is thus highly stable in vivo. The structure of the cationic polymer also called a dendrimer may be linear or cyclic and may be any of dimer oligomer and polymer. A cationic polymer in an aqueous solution not having a neutral lipid can also be preferably used in the present invention.

The cochleate that is a stable phospholipid calcium precipitant consisting of phosphatidyl serine cholesterol and calcium is also known as a nontoxic and noninflammatory transfection reagent that can be present in a digestive system. The biodegradable microspheres consisting of a polymer such as poly lactide co glycolide that is polyester can be used in producing microcapsules of the DNA for transfection. The tubule is known as a lipid based microtube consisting of a lipid of spirally wound two layers packed with their edges joined to each other. When the tubule is used the DNA can be arranged in the central hollow part thereof for delivery and controlled release into the body of an animal.

The adjuvant for immunization which can be used to prepare the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is known in the art. Those skilled in the art can suitably select an adjuvant suitable for formation of the pharmaceutical composition. Specific examples of the adjuvant which can be used in the present invention include CpG adjuvant aluminum hydroxide etc. The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can be used in an arbitrary dosage form such as capsules suspension elixir or solution.

The amount of the vaccine DNA to be combined with a carrier substance for preparing the pharmaceutical composition containing the vaccine DNA given in a single dose depends generally on many factors including the administration route administration method the type of nucleotide sequence and expression vector used the stability and activity immunogenicity of the antigen protein or peptide expressed the condition of a subject and a disease to be prevented or treated. The amount of the DNA administered depends on the type and amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier transfection reagent and adjuvant.

The DNA vaccine of the present invention or a pharmaceutical composition comprising the same can be used for prevention or treatment of an inflammatory disease. The inflammatory disease includes systemic lupus erythematosus Sjogren syndrome rheumatoid arthritis juvenile onset diabetes Wegener granulomatosis inflammatory bowel disease polymyositis dermatomyositis multiple endocrine failure Schmidt syndrome autoimmune uveitis Addison s disease adrenalitis primary biliary cirrhosis Graves disease thyroiditis Hashimoto thyroiditis autoimmune thyroid disease pernicious anemia lupoid hepatitis demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus hypoparathyroidism Dressler syndrome myasthenia gravis autoimmune thrombocytopenia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic anemia autoimmune hemolytic anemia pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus bullous pemphigoid dermatitis herpetiformis alopecia areata autoimmune cystitis pemphigoid scleroderma progressive systemic sclerosis CREST syndrome calcicosis Raynaud esophagus movement disorder sclerodactyly and teleangiectasia adult onset diabetes type II diabetes male or female autoimmune infertility ankylosing spondylitis ulcerative colitis Crohn disease mixed connective tissue disease polyarteritis nodosa systemic sphacelism angiitis juvenile onset rheumatoid arthritis glomerulonephritis atopic dermatitis atopic rhinitis Goodpasture syndrome Chagas disease sarcoidosis rheumatic fever asthma recurrent abortion antiphospholipid syndrome farmer s lung erythema multiforme postcardiotomy syndrome Cushing syndrome autoimmune chronic active hepatitis bird fancier s lung allergic encephalomyelitis toxic skin necrosis lysis alopecia Alport syndrome alveolitis allergic alveolitis fibrosing alveolitis interstitial lung disease erythema nodosum pyoderma gangrenosum blood transfusion reaction chronic fatigue syndrome fibromyalgia Takayasu arteritis Kawasaki disease polymyalgia rheumatica temporal arteritis giant cell arteritis Sumter syndrome triad Behcet disease Caplan syndrome dengue fever encephalomyocarditis endocarditis myositis endocardial fibrosis endophthalmitis erythema elevatum diutinum psoriasis erythroblastosis fetalis fasciitis accompanied by eosinophilia Schulman syndrome Felty syndrome filariasis cyclitis chronic cyclitis heterochromic cyclitis Fuchs cyclitis IgA nephropathy Henoch Schonlein Purpura glomerulonephritis cardiomyopathy post vaccination syndrome Hodgkin lymphoma and non Hodgkin lymphoma renal cell carcinoma Eaton Lambert syndrome and relapsing polychondritis.

The DNA vaccine of the present invention or a pharmaceutical composition comprising the same is useful for prevention or treatment of particularly rheumatoid arthritis ulcerative colitis etc.

The DNA vaccine or the pharmaceutical composition comprising the same can be administered directly to the muscle or skin. A gene gun can be used to administer the DNA vaccine of the present invention. Subcutaneous injection intracutaneous injection percutaneous douche and other injection methods for example intraperitoneal intravenous or inhalation administration and oral administration are also feasible and the administration route is not particularly limited. Booster inoculation can also be carried out.

The DNA vaccine or the pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention when administered to a mammal patient is administered in an amount effective for prevention or treatment of the diseases for example rheumatoid arthritis ulcerative colitis etc. described above and is administered generally in an amount of 1 g to 2000 g.

By administrating an effective amount of the DNA vaccine or the pharmaceutical composition to a patient the antibody titer effective against the polypeptide at which the vaccine targets can be obtained in the patient.

The present invention is described in more detail by reference to the Comparative Examples and Examples but the present invention is not limited to these examples.

Mouse MIF cDNA was amplified by using total RNA as a material prepared from RAW264.7 cells by RT PCR method with primer B 1U shown by SEQ ID NO 6 and primer X 348L shown by SEQ ID NO 9. The reaction system for synthesis of cDNA was composed of 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.3 50 mM potassium chloride 10 mM magnesium chloride 0.5 mM spermidine 10 mM dithiothreitol 1 mM dNTP 40 U RNase inhibitor 0.2 M random oligonucleotide 9 residues 30 U AMV reverse transcriptase and 2 g of RNA and the total volume was 25 l. The reaction was carried out at 42 C. for 60 minutes. The PCR solution was composed of 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 0.2 M primers B 1U SEQ ID NO 6 and X 348L SEQ ID NO 9 1 mM dNTP and 10 U Taq DNA polymerase and the total volume was 25 l. In PCR after i a reaction at 94 C. for 5 minutes ii a cycle consisting of a reaction at 94 C. for 10 seconds at 56 C. for 10 seconds and at 72 C. for 1 minute was repeated 25 times and finally an extension reaction at 72 C. for 5 minutes was carried out whereby a mouse MIF cDNA fragment was obtained. The cDNA fragment was purified then cloned into a restriction enzyme site BamHI XhoI of plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 to give plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 MIF referred to as DV1 SEQ ID NO 32 expressing mouse MIF.

A mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 MIF Ttx DV2 having tetanus toxin Th epitope SEQ ID NO 4 was prepared as the DNA vaccine. The procedure is shown in .

Using a pair of primers B 1U SEQ ID NO 6 and E 93L SEQ ID NO 7 or a pair of primers E 112U SEQ ID NO 8 and X 348L SEQ ID NO 9 PCR was carried out with MIF cDNA as a template. The reaction solution in this reaction was composed of 1 ng of the above cDNA 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 0.2 M of the above primers 1 mM dNTP and 10 U Taq DNA polymerase and the final total volume was 25 l. In PCR after i a reaction at 94 C. for 5 minutes ii a cycle consisting of a reaction at 94 C. for 10 seconds at 56 C. for 10 seconds and at 72 C. for 1 minute was repeated 25 times and finally an extension reaction at 72 C. for 5 minutes was carried out. As a result MIF cDNA fragments that is B 1 E 93 and E 112 X 348 were obtained. These fragments were treated with a restriction enzyme EcoRI and ligated with T4 DNA ligase. Using the resulting fragment as a template PCR was carried out with B 1U and X 348L as primers. The reaction solution in this reaction was composed of 1 ng of the DNA fragment obtained above 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 0.2 M of the above primers 1 mM dNTP and 10 U Taq DNA polymerase and the final volume was 25 l. In PCR after i a reaction at 94 C. for 5 minutes ii a cycle consisting of a reaction at 94 C. for 10 seconds at 56 C. for 10 seconds and at 72 C. for 1 minute was repeated 25 times and finally an extension reaction at 72 C. for 5 minutes was carried out. As a result a mutant MIF cDNA having a deficiency of a second loop and having an EcoRI site substituted therefore was obtained. This cDNA was treated with BamHI and XhoI and inserted into a BamHI XhoI site of pcDNA 3.1. The mutant MIF expression plasmid vector thus obtained was designated pcDNA 3.1 MIFd2 referred to as DV0 . The polypeptide expressed by this vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 33 in the Sequence Listing.

Separately a tetanus toxin Th epitope SEQ ID NO 4 was prepared by DNA extension reaction. That is the extension reaction was carried out at 37 C. for 30 minutes by using E TxU SEQ ID NO 10 and E TxL SEQ ID NO 11 as primer template and Klenow fragment as enzyme in 25 l final volume of solution containing 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 1 M of the above primers and 1 mM dNTP. The product SEQ ID NO 5 was treated with EcoRI then inserted into an EcoRI site of the MIF expression vector DV0 prepared above to give a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 MIF Ttx referred to as DV2 having the tetanus toxin Th epitope. The peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 34 in the Sequence Listing.

MIF is a protein having no secretory signal. In expectation of enhancement of the antigenicity of MIF by positive secretion a secretory signal was fused with the amino terminus thereof. Herein a secretory signal of tumor necrosis factor TNF was used. It is known that TNF is partially expressed as membrane protein and it is expected that MIF is also partially expressed as membrane protein by a secretory signal of TNF. A DNA SEQ ID NO 13 encoding a secretory signal peptide SEQ ID NO 12 of TNF was introduced into DV2 that is the mutant MIF expression plasmid vector prepared in Example 1 to prepare pcDNA3.1 TNFsignal MIF Ttx referred to as DV3 . The peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 35 in the Sequence Listing.

PCR was carried out with a pair of primers B TsU SEQ ID NO 14 and soe TsL SEQ ID NO 15 by using as a template the DNA SEQ ID NO 13 encoding a secretory signal peptide of TNF or with a pair of soe Ts MIFU SEQ ID NO 16 and X 348L SEQ ID NO 8 by using DV2 as a template. The reaction solution in this reaction was composed of 1 ng of the above cDNA 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 0.2 M of the above primers 1 mM dNTP and 10 U Taq DNA polymerase and the final volume was 25 l. In PCR after i a reaction at 94 C. for 5 minutes ii a cycle consisting of a reaction at 94 C. for 10 seconds at 56 C. for 10 seconds and at 72 C. for 1 minute was repeated 25 times and finally an extension reaction at 72 C. for 5 minutes was carried out. Using the resulting reaction product as a template PCR was carried out with a pair of primers B TsU SEQ ID NO 14 and X 348L SEQ ID NO 8 . The reaction solution was composed of 1 ng of the above cDNA 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 0.2 M of the above primers 1 mM dNTP and 10 U Taq DNA polymerase and the final volume was 25 l. In PCR after i a reaction at 94 C. for 5 minutes ii a cycle consisting of a reaction at 94 C. for 10 seconds at 56 C. for 10 seconds and at 72 C. for 1 minute was repeated 25 times and finally an extension reaction at 72 C. for 5 minutes was carried out. The resulting fragment was treated with restriction enzymes BamHI XhoI and inserted into a BamHI XhoI site of pcDNA 3.1.

pcDNA3.1 IL 5signal MIF Ttx referred to as DV4 was prepared by introducing a DNA SEQ ID NO 18 encoding a secretory signal peptide SEQ ID NO 17 of IL 5. The DNA encoding a secretory signal peptide of IL 5 was prepared by DNA extension reaction. That is the extension reaction was carried out at 37 C. for 30 minutes by using 5sU SEQ ID NO 19 and 5sL SEQ ID NO 20 as primer template and Klenow fragment as enzyme in 25 l final volume of solution containing 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 1 M of the above primers and 1 mM dNTP. PCR was carried out with a pair of primers B 5sU SEQ ID NO 21 and soe 5sL SEQ ID NO 22 by using this reaction product as a template or with a pair of soe 5s MIFU SEQ ID NO 23 and X 348L SEQ ID NO 8 by using DV2 as a template. The reaction solution in this reaction was composed of 1 ng of the above cDNA 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 0.2 M of the above primers 1 mM dNTP and 10 U Taq DNA polymerase and the final volume was 25 l. In PCR after i a reaction at 94 C. for 5 minutes ii a cycle consisting of a reaction at 94 C. for 10 seconds at 56 C. for 10 seconds and at 72 C. for 1 minute was repeated 25 times and finally an extension reaction at 72 C. for 5 minutes was carried out. Using the resulting reaction product as a template PCR was carried out with a pair of primers B 5sU SEQ ID NO 21 and X 348L SEQ ID NO 8 . The reaction solution was composed of 1 ng of the above cDNA 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 0.2 M of the above primers 1 mM dNTP and 10 U Taq DNA polymerase and the final volume was 25 l. In PCR after i a reaction at 94 C. for 5 minutes ii a cycle consisting of a reaction at 94 C. for 10 seconds at 56 C. for 10 seconds and at 72 C. for 1 minute was repeated 25 times and finally an extension reaction at 72 C. for 5 minutes was carried out. The resulting fragment was treated with restriction enzymes BamHI XhoI and inserted into a BamHI XhoI site of pcDNA 3.1. A peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 36 in the Sequence Listing.

A peptide known to have the same effect as that of Th epitope used in Example 1 includes a partial peptide of hen egg lysozyme or ovalbumin. In this example pcDNA3.1 MIF HEL referred to as DV5 wherein the Th epitope of DV2 was replaced by a DNA encoding a peptide having an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 24 in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme was prepared.

A DNA fragment SEQ ID NO 25 encoding a peptide having an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 24 in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme was prepared by DNA extension reaction by using the following oligo DNAs primer E HLU SEQ ID NO 26 and primer E HLL SEQ ID NO 27 . That is the extension reaction was carried out at 37 C. for 30 minutes by using E HLU SEQ ID NO 26 and E HLL SEQ ID NO 27 as primer template and Klenow fragment as enzyme in 25 l final volume of solution containing 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 1 M of the above primers and 1 mM dNTP. The product was treated with EcoRI and then inserted for substitution into an EcoRI site of the MIF expression vector DV2 prepared in Example 2 whereby a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 MIF HEL DV5 having a peptide having the amino acid sequence in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme was obtained. A peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 37 in the Sequence Listing.

A mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 TNFsignal MIF HEL referred to as DV6 wherein the Th epitope of DV3 prepared in Example 2 was replaced by an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 24 in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme was prepared.

The DNA fragment encoding a peptide having an amino acid sequence in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme prepared in Example 4 was inserted for substitution into an EcoRI site of DV3 in the same manner as above to prepare a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 TNFsignal MIF HEL DV6 having a peptide having the amino acid sequence in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme. A peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 38 in the Sequence Listing.

A mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 IL 5signal MIF HEL referred to as DV7 wherein the Th epitope of DV4 was replaced by an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 24 in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme was prepared in the same manner as in Example 4.

The DNA fragment encoding a peptide having an amino acid sequence in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme prepared in Example 4 was inserted for substitution into an EcoRI site of DV4 in the same manner as above to prepare a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 IL 5signal MIF HEL DV7 having a peptide having the amino acid sequence in positions 81 to 95 in hen egg lysozyme. A peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 39 in the Sequence Listing.

In this example pcDNA3.1 MIF OVA referred to as DV8 introduced into a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 MIF having a peptide having an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 28 in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin was prepared.

A DNA fragment SEQ ID NO 29 encoding a peptide having an amino acid sequence in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin was prepared by DNA extension reaction by using the following oligo DNAs primer E OVU SEQ ID NO 30 and primer E OVL SEQ ID NO 31 . That is the extension reaction was carried out at 37 C. for 30 minutes by using E OVL SEQ ID NO 31 and E OVL SEQ ID NO 31 as primer template and Klenow fragment as enzyme in 25 l final volume of solution containing 10 mM Tris HCl pH 9.0 50 mM potassium chloride 0.1 Triton X 100 1.5 mM magnesium chloride 1 M of the above primers and 1 mM dNTP. The product was treated with EcoRI and then inserted for substitution into an EcoRI site of the MIF expression vector DV2 prepared in Example 2 whereby a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 MIF OVA DV8 having a peptide having the amino acid sequence in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin was obtained. A peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 40 in the Sequence Listing.

A mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 TNFsignal MIF OVA referred to as DV9 wherein the Th epitope of DV3 prepared in Example 2 was replaced by a peptide having an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 28 in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin was prepared.

The DNA fragment encoding a peptide having an amino acid sequence in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin prepared in Example 7 was inserted for substitution into an EcoRI site of DV3 in the same manner as above to prepare a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 TNFsignal MIF OVA DV9 having a peptide having the amino acid sequence in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin. A peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 41 in the Sequence Listing.

A mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 IL 5signal MIF OVA referred to as DV10 wherein the Th epitope of DV4 was replaced by a peptide having an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 28 in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin was prepared in the same manner as in Example 7.

The DNA fragment encoding a peptide having an amino acid sequence in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin prepared in Example 7 was inserted for substitution into an EcoRI site of DV4 in the same manner as above to prepare a mutant MIF expression plasmid vector pcDNA3.1 IL 5signal MIF OVA DV10 having a peptide having the amino acid sequence in positions 325 to 336 in ovalbumin. A peptide obtained by this expression plasmid vector is represented by SEQ ID NO 42 in the Sequence Listing.

The vaccines DV1 to DV4 obtained in Examples 1 to 3 were administered respectively to groups each consisting of 6 mice subcutaneously administered in a dose of 100 g into 2 different sites 6 times at 2 week intervals and 2 4 6 8 10 and 12 weeks thereafter blood was collected from arbitrary one mouse in each group and the anti MIF antibody titer was measured by ELISA. Measurement of the anti MIF antibody titer was carried out by reacting recombinant MIF immobilized on a 96 well plate with the plasma diluted with phosphate buffered saline containing 1 mM EDTA and quantifying the bound antibody. The results are shown in . As shown in it was found that effective antibody titers could be obtained when DV2 to DV4 DNA vaccines were used.

Induction of arthritis was carried out according to a method of Kawabata et al. Arthritis and Rheumatism 50 660 668 2004 . That is a cocktail of monoclonal antibodies 500 g of D1 D8 A2 and F10 Chondrex Redmond Wash. against type II collagen was dissolved in 500 l of PBS and administered intraperitoneally to mice to which the DNA vaccine prepared in Example 1 or the control DNA had been administered and 72 hours thereafter 50 g of LPS 100 l of PBS was intraperitoneally administered to induce arthritis.

As shown in the results indicated that typical swelling was recognized in a leg joint in the control mouse antibody negative FIG. while this event was significantly inhibited in the MIF Th DNA vaccine administration group antibody positive FIG. and hardly distinguished from that of the untreated mouse of the same age FIG. .

Balb c mice 9 mice in each group were subcutaneously administered 6 times with saline MIF cDNA control DV1 vaccine or MIF OVA DV8 vaccine then subjected to operation of developing anti collagen antibody cocktail arthritis and sacrificed after 1 week and with respect to arthritis in joints of both paws and in joints of legs outgrowths of synovial membrane cartilage destruction and pannus formation were observed to determine histological grading. The results are shown in . As a result it was revealed that the degrees of arthritis and joint destruction in the MIF OVA DV8 vaccine administrated mice are significantly lower than those of the control vaccine administrated mice.

According to the present invention there can be provided a DNA vaccine effective against rheumatoid arthritis ulcerative colitis etc. Specifically the DNA vaccine comprising the MIF gene can be administered as a pharmaceutical composition to increase the antibody titer and prevent or treat the diseases described above.

