---

title: Light table editor for video snippets
abstract: A light table video application includes a stackable video snippet player control, a filmstrip video snippet player control, and a timeline video snippet player control. A user may edit indicate the sequence of an edited video clip by placing one or more stackable video snippet players in a stacked fashion. A user may change the display of a stackable video snippet player control to a filmstrip video snippet player control by resizing the stackable video snippet player control. A timeline video snippet player control provides functionality for a user to drag a video player control into a sequence and place the digital video file associated with the video player at a location indicated by an insert indicator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139919&OS=08139919&RS=08139919
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08139919
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070329
---
Typical video editing software applications are designed for video editing professionals and include a set of tools intended for creating a complete story. Such tools are focused on the editing process providing functionality to precisely edit and polish the finished video.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The present example provides a light table editing application including a stackable video snippet player control a filmstrip video snippet player control a timeline snippet edit control and methods associated with each.

Many of the attendant features will be more readily appreciated as the same becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The detailed description provided below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of the present examples and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present example may be constructed or utilized. The description sets forth the functions of the example and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the example. However the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different examples.

Although the present examples are described and illustrated herein as being implemented in a light table video snippet editing system the system described is provided as an example and not a limitation. As those skilled in the art will appreciate the present examples are suitable for application in a variety of different types of light table video snippet editing systems.

Although not required embodiments of the invention will be described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement embodiments of the invention may be stored in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allow device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term computer readable media may include communication media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared and other wireless media.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infra red cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments of the invention. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device . Those skilled in the art will also realize that all or a portion of the computer readable instructions may be carried out by a dedicated circuit such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP programmable logic array and the like.

Each of the one or more video snippet capture devices are communicatively coupled to the computing device . In turn the computing device is communicatively coupled to the video sharing service . The one or more video snippet capture devices implement functionality to capture and store digital video files. For example a video snippet capture device may be a mobile telephone equipped with a camera and digital image digitizing hardware and or software. The mobile telephone may further implement functionality and hardware to transmit each video file over a mobile phone connection such as the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM a firewire or universal serial bus USB connection a network connection such as Bluetooth or the like.

The video sharing service may be a World Wide Web site such as Microsoft Soapbox a centralized video hosting application maintained by a mobile phone service provider or the like. The video sharing service may provide functionality to a user to store digital video files and allow others to view the stored digital video files. The video sharing service may also provide functionality for a user to directly capture video to the video sharing service or may provide functionality for a user to upload previously stored and or edited video to the video sharing service .

Turning now to the computing device the light table video snippet editing application executed by the computing device opens edits and stores digital video files. The light table video snippet editing application includes one or more user interface controls functioning to allow a user to manipulate one or more digital video files in a variety of ways. For example the light table video snippet editing application may provide a user interface control and functionality for producing a finished digital video file by stacking a number of user interface controls. In an alternative example the light table video snippet editing application may provide a user interface control and functionality for producing a finished digital video file by dragging and dropping user interface controls into a timeline user interface control. The resulting finished digital video file may then be uploaded or streamed directly to the video sharing service .

The example system is just one example of a system for capturing video snippets editing with a light table video snippet editing application and uploading the result to a video sharing service. It is to be appreciated that any number of types of devices may capture digital video and send the digital video to a computing device for storage. It is also to be appreciated that the computing device may act as a video capture device and store captured digital video files locally. Furthermore the computing device may act as a video sharing service by providing access to finished digital video files to clients over a network connection.

Turning now to shows detail of an example light table video snippet editing application user interface from . The light table video snippet editing application user interface is comprised of three main windows a light table window a gallery window and a light table keyhole window .

The gallery window provides a list of video clips that may be clicked on and dragged into the light table window for editing. The light table keyhole window provides a keyhole view of the light table window . The entire light table window may not be visible and the light table keyhole window provides a light table keyhole control which a user may click on and drag to change the view of the light table window .

The gallery window includes any number of snippet preview control s that represent a stored digital video file. A snippet preview control may pop up or present a set of controls that function to play pause stop trim beginning trim ending and selectively advance or reverse playback of selected frames of the digital video file represented by the snippet preview control . The snippet preview control may further implement functionality to control the preview of the digital video file represented by the snippet preview control through scrubbing the snippet preview control . Such scrubbing functionality may be the selective playback of a series of frames of video in the digital video file started when a user clicks on the snippet preview control and drags the pointing device forward or backward across the snippet preview control . The snippet preview control may also pop up a set of information including a number representing the trimmed first frame of the digital video file a number representing the trimmed last frame of the digital video file and a number representing the current frame of the digital video file being displayed by the snippet preview control .

A user may click on a snippet preview control and drag the snippet preview control into the light table window . Once the snippet preview control has been dragged to the light table window the digital video file represented by the snippet preview control is replaced by a stackable video snippet player control . The stackable video snippet player control may be filmstrip resized such that it is transformed to or replaced by a filmstrip video snippet player control . Accordingly a stackable video snippet player control may be resized normally to a larger or smaller size.

Finally a user may right click in the light table window or may select a menu item from the main window of the light table video snippet editing application to create a new timeline video snippet edit control . Once the timeline video snippet edit control has been created the user may drag any number of the stackable video snippet player control or filmstrip video snippet player control into the snippet edit control .

The functioning of the stackable video snippet player control will be described in more detail in the discussion of . The functioning of the filmstrip video snippet player control will be described in more detail in the discussion of . The functioning of the timeline video snippet edit control will be described in more detail in the discussion of .

Turning now to a stackable video snippet player control is described in more detail. Note that the stackable video snippet player control includes a stacking edit method that will be described in more detail in the discussion of . The stackable video snippet player control includes a number of other controls for manipulating playback and displaying information regarding the digital video file associated with the stackable video snippet player control . The stackable video snippet player control also includes visual indications of where the stackable video snippet player control will be placed when dragged on top of another stackable video snippet player control .

The stackable video snippet player control includes a snippet title window a begin position information window a current position information window and an end position information window . The stackable video snippet player control also includes play controls and a playback slider control that includes a trim beginning control a trim end control and a current position indicator . Finally the stackable video snippet player control includes an insertion before indicator an insertion after indicator and a control resize handle .

The play controls allow a user to manipulate playback of the digital video file associated with the stackable video snippet player control in the video preview window . For example the play controls may include a stop button a pause button a play button or the like. The playback slider control allows a user to advance or decrease the displayed frame of the digital video file by clicking on the current position indicator and moving the current position indicator back or forwards along the playback slider control . A user may further set a beginning trim point by moving the trim beginning control to a point on the playback slider control corresponding to the desired beginning trim point. Similarly a user may set an end trim point by moving the trim end control to a point on the playback slider control corresponding to the desired end trim point.

A first stackable video snippet player control may be clicked and dragged over a second stackable video snippet player control . The first and second stackable video snippet player control may be considered to be a combined video clip with the digital video corresponding to the first stackable video snippet player control occurring first in the combined video clip and the digital video corresponding to the to the second stackable video snippet player control occurring second in the combined video clip.

A user may then drag a third stackable video snippet player control over the stacked first and second stackable video snippet player control . If the third stackable video snippet player control is moved to location where the third stackable video snippet player control will be placed before the second stackable video snippet player control the insertion before indicator will highlight or otherwise provide such an indication. If the third stackable video snippet player control will be placed after the second stackable video snippet player control the insertion after indicator will highlight or otherwise provide such an indication.

The insertion before indicator and insertion after indicator may be presented using any visual style and may be located at any location within the stackable video snippet player control . The insertion before indicator and insertion after indicator may provide a visual indication by highlighting changing color providing an audio signal playing an animation or the like.

Turning now to the windows of the stackable video snippet player control that display information about the digital video file associated with the stackable video snippet player control the snippet window title may include the title of the digital video file associated with the stackable video snippet player control . The title may be entered by a user may be drawn from text or metadata associated with the digital video file may be the actual name of the digital video file or the like. The begin position information window displays the frame number of the first frame of the digital video file associated with the stackable video snippet player control . For example if a user has trimmed the video using the trim beginning control the frame indicated by the position of the trim beginning control is displayed in the begin position information window .

Similarly the end position information window displays the frame number of the last frame of the digital video file associated with the stackable video snippet player control . Finally the current position information window displays the frame number of the digital video file corresponding to the stackable video snippet player control currently displayed in the video preview window .

Once the user has stacked the first second and third stackable video snippet player controls the user create a digital video file that combines the digital video files associated with the first second and third stackable video snippet player controls trimmed appropriately as indicated by the trim controls for each stackable video snippet player control . For example the user may right click on any of the first second or third stackable video snippet player controls to display a context menu and select a menu option to create the compiled digital video file. Alternatively the user may select a menu item from the menu of the application hosting the first second and third stackable video snippet player controls .

The stackable video snippet player control also includes a control resize handle . When a user clicks on and drags the control resize handle such that the aspect ratio of the video preview window is maintained for example at a forty five degree angle down and to the right the video preview window is scaled to a larger size. However if the user clicks on and drags the control resize handle such that the length of the stackable video snippet player control exceeds the native width of the digital video file corresponding to the stackable video snippet player control by a predetermined margin the stackable video snippet player control switches to a filmstrip video snippet player control from . However it is to be appreciated this the control resize handle is only one method of resizing and any method may be used.

In particular shows an example filmstrip video snippet player control from . The filmstrip video snippet player control may be an alternative display configuration of the stackable video snippet player control from . For example the stackable video snippet player control may morph or change to the filmstrip video snippet player control in response to a user clicking and dragging the control resize handle from of the stackable video snippet player control .

Similarly if a user clicks and drags the control resize handle on the filmstrip video snippet player control the filmstrip video snippet player control morphs or changes back to the stackable video snippet player control . It should also be noted that a filmstrip video snippet player control may execute a stacking edit method from just as a stackable video snippet player control .

The filmstrip video snippet player control includes a filmstrip creation method that will be discussed with more detail in the discussion of . The filmstrip video snippet player control includes one or more filmstrip window s . The number of filmstrip window s is dependent on the width of the filmstrip video snippet player control . The filmstrip window s display selected individual frames from a digital video file associated with the filmstrip video snippet player control .

The filmstrip video snippet player control also includes play controls a video snippet playback window and a control resize handle from . The filmstrip video snippet player control further includes a trim beginning control from and a trim end control from . Each of the trim beginning control and the trim end control function similarly to those described in the discussion of . The filmstrip video snippet player control also includes a control resize handle from that functions similarly to the control resize handle described in the discussion of .

The filmstrip window s display individual frames of the digital video file associated with the filmstrip video snippet player control . The number of frames and the frames selected for display may be selected in accordance with the function of the filmstrip creation method however any suitable method for selecting individual frames to display may be used.

The snippet playback window plays the digital video file corresponding to the filmstrip video snippet player control . Play of the digital video file may either be controlled by the play controls or by the user scrubbing over the filmstrip windows . As previously discussed scrubbing the filmstrip video snippet player control results in the display of individual frames of the digital video file when the user clicks and drags a pointing device forwards or backwards across the filmstrip video snippet player control .

For example if a user clicks and holds the pointing device over the first filmstrip window the first frame of the digital video file corresponding to the filmstrip video snippet player control will be displayed in the snippet playback window . As the user drags the pointer to the right the remaining frames of the digital video file corresponding to the filmstrip video snippet player control are played in succession at the same rate as the pointer is being dragged. Thus as the user drags more quickly frames play more quickly. As the user drags more slowly frames play more slowly. Because the user can see the static images of the digital video file in the filmstrip video snippet player control the user is better able to search back and forth through the digital video file to select frames of interest.

Turning now to shows an example timeline video edit control . The timeline video edit control from includes an example insertion edit method that will be discussed in more detail in the discussion of . The timeline video edit control includes functionality for a user to drag one or more digital video clips corresponding to either a stackable video snippet player control from a filmstrip video snippet player control from or any other representation of the digital video clip and place each into sequential order within the timeline video snippet edit control .

The timeline video edit control includes one or more insert indicator s one or more insert between indicator s and a timeline preview control . The timeline video edit control also includes one or more video information window s that displays a static image or other information representative of a digital video file represented by the video information window . Each of the one or more insert indicator s and one or more insert between indicator s activate in response to a user dragging an appropriate control representing a digital video clip into the timeline video edit control .

For example if a user drags a first control representing a digital video file into an empty timeline video edit control the first control will take the first position available in the timeline video edit control . When a user drags a second control representing a digital video file into the timeline video edit control the user may drag the second control over top of the first control. If the second control is within a threshold area of the first control for example in the first third the insert indicator immediately to the left of the first control highlights. If the user releases the second control the second control will replace the first control in the first position in the timeline video edit control .

If the second control is within a threshold area in the middle area of the first control for example within the middle third the insert between indicator of the first control highlights. If the user releases the second control the digital video file represented by the first control is split into two portions at or approximately in the center. The result is that the digital video file represented by the second control will be inserted in the middle of digital video file represented by the first control. Note that if the user has previously indicated alternate beginning and or end points for the digital video file the digital video file represented by second control may be placed at the mid point of the new beginning and or end points.

If the second control is within a threshold area in the right side of the first control for example within the last third the insert indicator to the right of the first control highlights. In response to the user dropping or releasing the second control the second control appears immediately to the right of the first control.

The timeline preview control may be included with the timeline video edit control or may be presented in response to a user request such as right clicking the timeline video edit control to present a context menu. The timeline preview control displays the combined result of each of the digital video files included in the timeline video edit control in order. Such a context menu may further include user interface elements that when selected save the combined result of the timeline video edit control .

Turning now to shows an example stacking edit method . Block refers to an operation in which it is determined if a user of a first stackable video snippet player control for example the stackable video snippet player control from has clicked on and dragged a first stackable video snippet player control into an area on top of a second stackable video snippet player control.

Block refers to an operation to determine the position of the first stackable video snippet player control in relation to the second stackable video snippet player control. Such a determination may be made by comparing the location of a predetermined area on the first stackable video snippet player control to a predetermined location on the second stackable video snippet player control.

For example the area corresponding to the mouse pointer on the first stackable video snippet player control may be compared to one or more predetermined areas included in the second stackable video snippet player control. The predetermined areas may be the left half of the second stackable video snippet player control and the right half of the stackable video snippet player control. The mouse pointer and the first stackable video snippet player control may fall within the left half of the second stackable video snippet player control or may fall within the right half of the second stackable video snippet player control. It is to be appreciated however that this is an example only and the predetermined area defined by the second stackable video snippet player control may comprise any number and configuration of predetermined areas.

Block refers to an operation in which it has been determined that the first stackable video snippet player control falls within an area defined as before on the second stackable video snippet player control. As has been discussed any area on the second stackable video snippet player control may be defined as before the second stackable video snippet player control. Typically the area defining the left half of the second stackable video snippet player control from the center line of the second stackable video snippet player control may be defined as before .

Block refers to an operation to an operation to highlight the insertion before indicator on the second stackable video snippet player control. Such an indicator may be a highlighted line along the left hand side of the second stackable video snippet player control. However any visual indication on the second stackable video snippet player control may be used.

Block refers to an operation in which the first stackable video snippet player control is inserted before the second stackable video snippet player control in response to a user s instruction to place the first control in the sequence. The user may indicate the instruction by releasing the mouse button clicked and held on the first control for example.

Block refers to an operation in which it has been determined that the first stackable video snippet player control falls within an area defined as after on the second stackable video snippet player control. As has been discussed any area on the second stackable video snippet player control may be defined as after the second stackable video snippet player control. Typically the area defining the right half of the second stackable video snippet player control from the center line of the second stackable video snippet player control may be defined as after .

Block refers to an operation to an operation to highlight the insertion after indicator on the second stackable video snippet player control. Such an indicator may be a highlighted line along the right hand side of the second stackable video snippet player control. Any visual indication on the second stackable video snippet player control may be used however.

Block refers to an operation in which the first stackable video snippet player control is inserted after the second stackable video snippet player control in response to a user s instruction to place the first control in the sequence. The user may indicate the instruction by releasing the mouse button clicked and held on the first control for example.

Turning now to shows an example method for creating a filmstrip view. Block refers to an operation in which the total number of frames included in a digital video file is calculated. The total number of frames in the digital video file may be calculated using any method. A digital video file may be spatially or temporally compressed and the number of uncompressed frames may be used to calculate the total number of frames for example.

Block may refer to an operation in which the first frame of the digital video file is selected as the first static video frame to be displayed and the last frame of the digital video file is selected as the last static video frame to be displayed. Note that the first and last video frames of the digital video file may not correspond exactly to the first and last frame in the digital video file respectively. For example a user may have selected a different beginning or end frame using a trim control and in this case the first trimmed frame may be used as the first static video frame to be displayed and the last trimmed frame may be used as the last static video frame to be displayed.

Block refers to an operation in which the width of a frame of the digital video file is determined. Such a determination may be performed using any method. The native resolution of the digital video file may be used for example. In particular an example digital video file may be of a resolution of 640 pixels high by 480 pixels wide. In this example the width of one frame of the digital video file is 480 pixels. In another example the width of a frame of the digital video file may be predetermined. The width of a video file may be set to be a fixed width set either by the creator of a filmstrip control or taken from a user s specified preference for example. Note that while this example is measured in pixels any unit of measure may be used.

Block refers to an operation in which the number of frames that will fit within the current window is determined. Such a determination may be made using any method for example the width of a single frame of the digital video file determined at block may be compared to the current width of the current window. If the width of the current window is 1000 pixels wide two frames 480 pixels wide are 960 pixels wide in total and therefore two frames of the digital video file will fit within the current window. Note that white space may be included in between frames to improve the visual layout of the digital video frames in the current window.

Block refers to an operation in which a regular interval at which static frames of the digital video file should be selected for display in the current window is determined. Such a determination may be made using the total number of frames of the digital video file as determined at block the width of a frame of the digital video file determined at block and the number of frames that will fit into the current window determined at block . For example if a digital video file is 10 frames in length and the current window may display 5 frames of video the determined interval is 2.

Block refers to an operation in which the regular interval determined at block is used to select static frames from the digital video file for display in the current window. For example if the interval determined at block is 2 the first frame determined at block is used as the first frame each second frame from the digital file is then selected for display ending with the last frame also determined at block .

Turning now to shows an example insertion edit method . Block refers to an operation in which it is determined if a user of a first digital video player control has clicked on and dragged the first stackable video snippet player control into a timeline editing control for example the timeline video snippet edit control from .

Block refers to an operation to determine the position of the first digital video player control in relation to a second digital video player control included in the timeline editing control. Such a determination may be made by comparing the location of a predetermined area on the first digital video player control to a predetermined location on the second digital video player control.

For example the area corresponding to the mouse pointer on the first digital video player control may be compared to one or more predetermined areas included in the second digital video player control. The predetermined areas may be the left one third of the second digital video player control the middle one third of the second digital video player control and the right one third of the second digital video player control. In this example the coordinates corresponding to the location of the mouse pointer on the first digital video player control may fall within any of the three predetermined areas on the second digital video player control. It is to be appreciated that this is an example only and the predetermined area defined by the second stackable video snippet player control may comprise any number and configuration of predetermined areas.

Block refers to an operation in which it has been determined that the first digital video player control falls within an area defined as before on the second digital video player control. As has been discussed any area on the second digital video player control may be defined as before . Typically the area defining the left most one third of the second digital video player control may be defined as before .

Block refers to an operation to an operation to highlight the insertion before indicator on the second digital video player control. Such an indicator may be a highlighted line to the left of the second digital video player control within the timeline edit control. Any visual indication on the second digital video player control may be used.

Block refers to an operation in which the first digital video player control is inserted before the second digital video player control in response to a user s instruction to place the first control in the sequence. For example the user may indicate the instruction by releasing the mouse button clicked and held on the first control.

Block refers to an operation in which it has been determined that the first digital video player control falls within an area defined as insert between on the second digital video player control. As has been discussed any area on the second digital video player control may be defined as insert between . Typically the area defining the middle one third of the second digital video player control may be defined as insert between .

Block refers to an operation to an operation to highlight the insertion between indicator on the second digital video player control. Such an indicator may be a highlighted arrow in the middle of the second digital video player control within the timeline edit control. Any visual indication on the second digital video player control may be used.

Block refers to an operation in which the first digital video player control is inserted in between the second digital video player control in response to a user s instruction to place the first control in the sequence. For example the user may indicate the instruction by releasing the mouse button clicked and held on the first control. Note that the digital video file represented by the first digital video player will be split and the digital video file represented by the second digital video player will be inserted in between the two halves of the digital video file represented by the first digital video player.

Block refers to an operation in which it has been determined that the first digital video player control falls within an area defined as after on the second digital video player control. As has been discussed any area on the second digital video player control may be defined as after . Typically the area defining the right most one third of the second digital video player control may be defined as after .

Block refers to an operation to an operation to highlight the after indicator on the second digital video player control. Such an indicator may be a highlighted line to the right of the second digital video player control within the timeline edit control. Any visual indication on the second digital video player control may be used.

Block refers to an operation in which the first digital video player control is inserted after the second digital video player control in response to a user s instruction to place the first control in the sequence. For example the user may indicate the instruction by releasing the mouse button clicked and held on the first control.

