---

title: Mobile self-contained networked checkpoint
abstract: A portable checkpoint system is disclosed that incorporates a configurable freight container to facilitate transport and conversion for operation. The container is disposable into closed and open configurations. The closed configuration enables the container to be transported. The open configuration enables a vehicle to drive therethrough. In the closed configuration, the container forms a quadrilateral set of walls connectable in a rectangular box. A hinge joins two adjacent walls along a pivotable edge and pivots between perpendicular and coplanar positions corresponding respectively to the closed and open configurations. A joint reversibly connects two walls opposite the adjacent walls along a separable edge, disconnecting from a lock position to an unlock position that correspond respectively to the closed and open configurations. The hinge's perpendicular position disposes the two adjacent walls to be mutually perpendicular at the pivotable edge and forms the rectangular box. The hinge's coplanar position disposes the two adjacent walls to form substantially coplanar platforms to each other on which the vehicle can drive. The joint's latch position disposes the two opposite walls to be mutually perpendicular at the separable edge. The joint's unlock position disposes the opposite walls to form substantially parallel barriers to each other that define an inspection zone. The barriers and platforms include sensors for measuring characteristics of the vehicle. The checkpoint includes a communications system accessible to a database having information on vehicle identification, vehicle sensory characteristics, personal identification and facial-recognition photographs for comparison with the vehicle and its occupants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07789258&OS=07789258&RS=07789258
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07789258
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070507
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to a portable system for establishing a temporary roadway checkpoint for investigating entry and egress therethrough with communication linkage to verification databases. More particularly the invention relates to a system of sensor equipped portals through which a vehicle passes while being inspected each portal being foldable into a shipping container configuration.

The frequency of terrorist incidents that employ an improvised explosive device IED has increased dramatically since 1998 according to the Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism at http www.tkb.org Home.jsp. Mitigating this threat to life and property necessitates improved inspection of road mobile vehicles that harbor such IEDs as well as their occupants who clandestinely deploy them.

Unscheduled investigation of a vehicle traveling along a road typically necessitates tradeoffs that exacerbate the ability to intercept and mitigate against nefarious activities injurious to civil society e.g. transport of contraband deployment of improvised explosive devices escape of individuals sought for custody etc.

A roadblock checkpoint may entail risk to personnel for investigating a detained vehicle. Such an impromptu arrangement may locally lack information resources to identify any occupants or verify the vehicle s status. Moreover the time devoted to such investigation may be curtailed to mitigate traffic impedance resulting in reduced interception of intended targets. Static checkpoints for fixed installations with a more complete range of investigative tools may not be suitable for evasive targets.

Currently modular checkpoints have been established to provide stations for screening individual persons seeking to enter a controlled area such as an airport terminal. Such art includes U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 106 192 to Johnson et al. and 7 102 512 to Pendergraft.

Conventional checkpoint arrangements yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular the conventional systems lack a convenient ability to provide comprehensive sensory information on a vehicle at relocatable positions.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a portable checkpoint system that incorporates a configurable freight container to facilitate transport and conversion for operation. The container is disposable into closed and open configurations. The closed configuration enables the container to be transported. The open configuration enables a vehicle to drive therethrough. In the closed configuration the container forms a quadrilateral set of walls connectable in a rectangular box.

A hinge joins two adjacent walls along a pivotable edge and pivots between perpendicular and coplanar positions corresponding respectively to the closed and open configurations. A joint reversibly connects two walls opposite the adjacent walls along a separable edge disconnecting from a lock position to an unlock position that correspond respectively to the closed and open configurations.

The hinge s perpendicular position disposes the two adjacent walls to be mutually perpendicular at the pivotable edge and forms the rectangular box. The hinge s coplanar position disposes the two adjacent walls to form substantially coplanar platforms to each other on which the vehicle can drive. The joint s latch position disposes the two opposite walls to be mutually perpendicular at the separable edge. The joint s unlock position disposes the opposite walls to form substantially parallel barriers to each other that define an inspection zone.

In various embodiments the barriers and platforms include sensors for measuring characteristics of the vehicle. Other embodiments provide a communications system for the checkpoint being accessible to a database having information on vehicle identification vehicle sensory characteristics personal identification and facial recognition photographs for comparison with the vehicle and its occupants.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention.

Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The portable system to provide vehicle checkpoints for various exemplary embodiments employs at least one freight container. The system preferably uses the 40 ft 12.2 m version for cargo shipping as well as rail transport also known as the forty foot equivalent unit FEU . The 40 ft container has interior dimensions of length 39 ft in width 7 ft 8 in and height 7 ft 9 in for a total volume of 2 376 ft.

An alternative is the 20 ft 6 m version also known as the twenty foot equivalent unit TEU . Thus an FEU is equivalent to two TEUs. Other standard lengths include 45 ft 13.7 m 48 ft 14.6 m and 53 ft 16.2 m . These freight containers comply with ISO International Standards Organization requirements. The maximum gross mass for a 20 ft dry cargo container is 24 000 kg and for a 40 ft is 30 480 kg yielding respective payload masses gross minus tare of about 21 600 kg and 26 500 kg.

The container includes front and rear ends with the front end being closed or alternatively having doors and the aft end having doors may be opened and secured to their respective left and right side walls . The front and rear ends merely represent an orientation convention which is not intended to be limiting. Alternatively the doors may be removed and installed as ramps for vehicle approach and departure. The floor left wall ceiling and right wall may be connected along their edges to form an open rectangular box which can be closed by securing the doors .

A longitudinal hinge shown along the lower starboard edge enables the container to separate at an opposite lockable joint shown along the upper port edge . The right side wall may swing down to the ground substantially parallel to the bottom floor while the top ceiling forms a deployed starboard barrier. The left side wall forms the deployed port barrier substantially parallel to the ceiling as deployed.

Thus the hinge rotatably connects two joined adjacent walls of the container along a first common edge and the joint connects the opposite adjacent walls along a second common edge opposite the first. The hinge at the first common edge may swing from an orthogonal closed position to a coplanar open position. Similarly the joint at the second common edge may remain integral at the closed position and separated at the open position.

The closed position maintains the two joined adjacent walls mutually perpendicular to each other and the opposite walls together also mutually perpendicular. The open position disposes the joined adjacent walls to be parallel and alongside each other as well as the opposite walls to be separate and facing each other from opposing ends of the coplanar walls.

Cutaway portions illustrate interior structures of the floor ceiling left side wall and right side wall . The floor and ceiling include cross members extending from edge rails e.g. including the hinge and sandwiched between interior boards and exterior panels .

The side walls include posts disposed outside of interior panels as corrugation structural support. The corners between the headers may be reinforced for increased structural integrity. The doors may be locked by locking bars or latches and hinged to support frames . The boundaries of the container enclose a cargo space having a standard volume defined based on length and height.

The hinge may include an hydraulic actuator to enable the right wall to pivot relative to the floor without interference. The rotation is shown in the direction of the angling arrow . As the joint unlocks cables may extend between a left edge on the left side wall and a right edge on the ceiling to facilitate control during deployment thereby avoiding sudden descent of the right side wall with possible risk of injury for crew.

The underside of the drive platform from either the floor and or the right side wall may include conformable pads that extend from the outer surfaces thereby enabling the channel to be disposed level to the ground. These pads may be independently or automatically controlled to provide self leveling capability. Otherwise local variations in ground topology such as obstructions or cavities from natural or artificial causes may produce unevenly distributed loading. Such conditions could adversely influence instrumentation and or buckle the deployed channel thereby inhibiting stowage reconfiguration.

Deformably elastic rails or bumpers may protrude into the zone to inhibit a vehicle from inadvertent contact with the barriers . The bumpers may be intermittently distributed over portions of the barriers or alternatively extend over their entire lengths. Lightweight anti personnel barriers may pivotably overhang from the tops of the barriers to inhibit unauthorized intruders from invading the zone .

A variety of embedded sensors and recessed light sources may be disposed along the interior surfaces of the drive platform and the barriers . These sensors may include instruments to measure or detect for example chemical and or physical responses to particular contraband such as conventional explosives narcotics materials for such synthesis etc.

Additionally or alternatively the sensors may include videographic instruments to distinguish and or record optical and audio signatures of the transiting vehicle s exterior and interior features. Photometric sensors for optical measurements may for example be sensitive to the ultraviolet visible infrared microwave and or radio electromagnetic spectrums. The light sources may provide illumination for the zone particularly for nighttime operations.

A traffic signal may be disposed at or adjacent to one or both of the barriers . The traffic signal may be positioned at the aft end of the channel as shown for approach instruction and or towards the forward end for departure instruction to control entrance and egress of vehicles for inspection.

The entrance and exit ramps may be converted from the container doors . The bumpers may include slanted stripes or other appropriate markings to denote direction or visually draw attention to them for contact avoidance.

A single vehicle a minivan enters the inspection zone and travels along the drive platform . The traffic signal indicates to the vehicle s driver when to depart passing along the drive platform onto the exit ramp and clear the zone thereby enabling the single channel to receive another vehicle and direct traffic in the direction of arrow .

A checkpoint may include in addition to the instrumented channel a support bay with auxiliary equipment. shows an elevation view of the support bay having mounts for antennas and racks for various equipment . The support bay may be separately portable from the channel such as in a separate freight container e.g. a TEU equivalent or stored within the stowed container within the cargo space .

The antennas may be designed for radios satellite communications cell phones etc. The equipment for the support bay may be deployed to be installed on the racks disposed alongside the barriers . This equipment may include computation memory and communication components such as a server a central processing unit CPU a redundant array of independent disks RAID and a Global Positioning System GPS receiver . The server may be connected to a local or wide network by fiber optics or twisted pair lines .

Electrical power may be independently supplied by a multi kilowatt diesel power generator and controlled by an automated power management conditioner . Fuel e.g. diesel oil for the generator may be stored in a 500 gallon storage tank as shown on the container floor .

Additionally a hazardous material HAZMAT storage bin may be used to provisionally collect chemically or radioactively contaminated items until final removal and disposal. The power conditioner and the fuel tank may be externally accessible for maintenance and refueling beyond the inspection zone . The equipment may include shock and vibration absorption mechanisms e.g. spring mounts on the racks as well as noise mitigation dampeners.

Each portable checkpoint deployed as the channel may communicate with other checkpoints or with a coordination center having access to one or more databases consulted for investigations. depicts a network constellation connecting communication nodes to a nexus depicted as a laptop computer . Each node may correspond to a checkpoint whether permanent or relocatable located within or near a geographical urban site such as shown for an example region in the Middle East.

The computer may be in contact with a variety of databases with which to compare information regarding the vehicles or their occupants. Such databases may include vehicle records as lost or stolen vehicles and vehicle registration and licensing personal records for pedestrians or vehicle occupants such as criminal records and personal identification e.g. driver s license passport . The databases may also or alternatively include non tabular information such as digitally recorded facial recognition photographs vehicle license plates and vehicle sensor data .

The CPU may be incorporated as part of or otherwise associated with the computer . The server may provide connection to the databases . The CPU may perform comparisons between the data received from the sensors and information in these databases. In addition the CPU in conjunction with the GPS receiver may provide information or instructions to other nodes for coordination of operations to address against an indicated threat.

The checkpoint may include several components integrated together to investigate a vehicle traveling along a road. shows a plan view of a checkpoint for one direction on a two lane bi directional road with vehicles to be intercepted traveling in the direction indicated by arrow . The checkpoint may include netted sensor grids strategically positioned cameras instruction signs concrete barricades e.g. obstacles or jersey walls containment buildings trailers a guard shelter and gates . The grids may optionally be stowed in the space of the container while in transport prior to being unfurled. Similarly the cameras and signs may also be stowed in the space .

The grids may engage in surveillance of vehicles traveling in the direction indicated by arrow . The instruction signs may provide information to alert drivers to reduced speed and preparation to stop. The jersey walls provide portable obstacles against traffic deviation. The containment buildings may be used for maintaining personnel or detaining custodials. The trailers may be for housing network and power equipment. The guard shelter and gates may be used to control through traffic.

The checkpoint may be divided into sections. The first section represents a surveillance and monitoring zone having the grid and the cameras . The second section represents a commitment zone within which a vehicle may turn around indicated by curved arrow . The vehicle reaches a line of no return upon reaching the earliest jersey wall after which the vehicle enters a checkpoint operations zone to approach and enter the channel . At this stage the checkpoint personnel may have options flexible response in depth regarding the approaching vehicle depending on the level of apparent or perceived risk.

After completion of sensory investigation within the channel the vehicle may be directed by the gates to a detainment or detention area for incarceration and or interrogation of vehicle occupants and possible vehicle impoundment. Otherwise the vehicle may be permitted to pass through after investigation and proceed past the guard shelter and beyond the line of passage .

Under these conditions a portable checkpoint can be established by transporting one or more freight containers to an intended destination site such as along an otherwise non blockaded road . Upon delivery to the temporary checkpoint destination the container may be deployed to form an instrumented channel . Auxiliary equipment and barriers may be tactically disposed at the site to direct traffic as individual vehicles into the channel for preliminary inspection.

Depending on verification of innocuous nature or else indication of threat possibility the vehicle may be authorized to proceed or be further detained for more thorough investigation. Upon completion of the mission objectives the equipment may be recovered and the channel be folded into the stowed container again.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

