---

title: Media distribution server that presents interactive media to a mobile device
abstract: A media distribution server presenting interactive media on mobile devices and receives mobile user response interactively. During the presentation of interactive media the user is prompted with multiple choices for their selection, which can be provided using softkeys on the mobile device. The media distribution server prepares the subsequent portions of the interactive media and delivers them to the mobile device. In one embodiment, the necessary text, graphics, audio and video are assembled and integrated dynamically and is presented on the mobile device to the user. Further the mobile user is prompted to approve online purchases, make online appointment requests, show interest in products, etc. while browsing the interactive media on their mobile device. The media distribution server supports such activities as necessary.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941092&OS=07941092&RS=07941092
owner: 
number: 07941092
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20071025
---
The present patent application is a continuation in part of claims priority to and makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 821 771 entitled SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INTERACTIVE USER INTEREST SURVEY TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE filed on Jun. 25 2007. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. provisional patent Ser. No. 60 860 700 entitled AUDIO GUIDED SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE ON MULTI STEP ACTIVITIES filed on Nov. 22 2006 . The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 524 568 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 24 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 702 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 10 2004. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 530 175 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS AND A TRADING SYSTEM FOR CONTRACTS ON USER COMMITMENTS TO ANSWER QUESTIONNAIRES filed on Dec. 17 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to a server facilitating the delivery of interactive media to mobile devices and more particularly to a server that delivers interactive content as part of a customized service to a mobile device user.

Current mobile device service networks do not provide easy to use services to users of mobile devices. They also have infrastructure that is rigid wherein it is not easy to create and deploy new solutions. However the use of mobile devices has become ubiquitous and can be encountered in all walks of life. This is made possible due the wide coverage provided by wireless networks. Such a wireless network can be valuable but is underutilized due to lack of several key technologies in addition to lack of standard interface and communication protocols. Mobile devices are typically used for voice calls and data access over wireless networks. However there are very limited uses to which a typical user employs his mobile device such as voice calls and email access.

Currently mobile devices do not support interactive media effectively. A micro browser available in some mobile devices makes it possible to enter a URL and retrieve a web page. Some Internet websites can be accessed using the browser in some mobile devices. Unfortunately new forms of interactive media are not supported in most mobile devices these include questionnaires audio assisted activities etc.

Normally advertisements are provided on televisions TVs and newspapers. Often they are not interactive in the sense that the user can view them but cannot do much with these forms of advertisements. Advertisements provided as video clips that are easy to run on television TV and computers have been known for a while. However these are not communicated to mobile devices typically. Some rudimentary forms of advertisements in the form of text based SMS messages have been recently available. Mobile devices are currently confined to such limited text based advertisements. Mobile devices with poor display resolution are not effective in presenting large forms of media. Ads in the form of movies and video clips shown in movies and on TV are not possible on mobile devices due to technical as well as usability reasons.

Current media distribution servers have no control over the media once delivered to its clients. They often deliver some form of text or a webpage to a mobile device. Some media distribution servers provide songs for download. Others provide movies for download. Client devices run some small programs such a an MP3 player or a video player to receive the songs or movies and play them on the mobile device. A browser in a mobile device may have a plug in for a MP3 player or a video plugin and may be able to play songs and movies when downloaded by a user who uses the browser.

Present media distribution servers are not customized to deliver interactive media on the mobile devices to provide uniform services across the entire mobile user community due to the wide difference in the mobile device hardware architecture. Thus the current media distribution server often cannot compensate for the inherent limitation of mobile device architecture. For example quite a few types of mass market mobile devices cannot store large plug ins and process movies and longtime video audio clips at the required display frame rate unlike personnel or laptop computers. This is due to small storage small system memory and relatively less powerful processing circuitry on the mobile devices. This requires a different approach to be accomplished by media distribution server in delivering image or audio video clips on mobile devices. It also makes it necessary to develop new technologies for supporting interactive media on mobile devices.

Handheld devices like mobile phones have a small display that needs to be taken into account when developing new interactive media solutions and in designing new media distribution servers. Because displaying adequate text in the interactive media on such small displays is not possible to describe complex products or services. In this scenario a new method of interactive media delivery is imperative. In this context the current media distribution servers such as those that deliver songs and movies to a mobile device are not implemented to complement the dynamic requirements of media delivery based on the instantaneous inputs from different entities on the network.

The architecture of the mobile devices varies widely in terms their interface with the internet and its components such as servers standard internet communication protocols etc. The architecture of the mobile services do not fall strictly in the realm of any standards and thus are more of proprietary in nature. Thus we see a wide range of mobile product in terms of their functionalities and capabilities. It becomes more challenging to deliver any interactive media on such a vast variety of architecturally differing mobile clients. Current media distribution servers are inadequate in providing the interactive media delivery services over such a nonstandard in media types and content delivery means and architecturally divergent mobile device base.

Currently media distribution server incapable of delivering new services such as those needed to conduct e business. New types of e business are likely to proliferate in the near future are likely to provide services to a user over a mobile device. Media distribution servers are inadequate in addressing the needs of such new e businesses.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art through comparison of such systems with the present invention.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description of the Invention and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The number of mobile device users is growing day by day and the mobile device is becoming a very important personal device through which different kinds of information can be accessed by a user. An enterprise or a service provider using the present invention can provide interactive media to a mobile device user easily when it is convenient to the user. Distributing interactive media to mobile devices makes the access of such information by mobile users more convenient useful and timely. For example it is possible to propagate information on new events and products etc. In addition employing the present invention content and information associated with services provided by E business Electronic business can be distributed to mobile device users which adds a new dimension to access of data and services via a mobile device. A network involving the mobile devices is far more effective and efficient in distributing interactive media compared to Internet which can only reach information to relatively small cross section of the people especially in countries where Internet coverage or access is limited or expensive.

In the present invention the interactive media can be either pre created by a service provider and distributed or generated dynamically to be customized and distributed. For example the information required to generate the interactive media is gathered on the fly through interaction with service or content providers and could be influenced by information provided by the mobile device user. The service and content providers share their product or service information with the media distribution server and the mobile device users respond to data provided which generates additional inputs from the user. For example a mobile device user provides input by way of selecting from the multiple choices and options provided in the screens of a client application such user input from the screens further guiding the media distribution server to generate and deliver additional such as the next interactive media screen in accordance with the present invention.

In particular the media distribution server receives interactive media such as questionnaires interest indicator surveys audio assisted guided activities adhoc questionnaires etc. and inserts one or more advertisements into it before delivery to one or more mobile users on their mobile device . In one related embodiment the inserted advertisements are tailored to a user s profile and user s interests and recent purchases. In another embodiment it is associated with or related to a product or service regarded as the subject matter of the interactive media such as an advertisement for a network router that is determined to be related to a questionnaire on access points from a company in the network equipment industry. The media distribution server also selectively provides metadata or configuration along with the interactive media delivered that indicates to a mobile device or to actually a client capable of displaying the interactive media the need to play an advertisement before during or after the display of the interactive media.

Another important feature of the media distribution server in accordance with the present invention is the solicitation of a user response employing menu items presented or a multiple choice presented in the interactive media and the interactions with external system based upon responses received. For example the user of an interactive media is presented with a multiple choice selection that comprises make and appointment item and when selected by a user the media distribution server acts upon the user response and communicates the user response to a service provider to trigger appointment generation. It also if necessary forwards an appointment information back to the user via the mobile device . Similarly purchase requests made by a user by selecting a make a purchase multiple choice selection on the mobile device is received by the media distribution server and an interaction with an external system such as the service provider system or a billing system is initiated and optionally an invoice is sent back to the mobile device to solicit user review and user approval often with the need for the user to enter a PIN code or a security code as part of the approval and user authentication process.

The media distribution server comprises a module called product and service description module which is guided by the inputs furnished by the service or the content providers and the mobile device users to generate the next portion of interactive media or a new item displayed on a screen of the mobile device of interactive media on the mobile device display. The selection made by the users are in the form of multiple choice and option buttons which is communicated to the media distribution server which then in response delivers a next interactive media or the next portion of the current one in a next screen with perhaps a next set of choices and options. Thus a user of the mobile device participates in the interaction to guide the interactive media generation using a joystick softkeys and the keyboard limiting the use of the keyboard is one of the goals as appropriate on his mobile device.

In one exemplary delivery of an interactive media to the mobile device at the beginning the media distribution server presents a list of interactive media for display to the user of the mobile device on a welcome screen. The user then selects one of the interactive media from the list using the joystick o the mobile device or softkeys. In response to this user selection the media distribution server presents the selected interactive media. Thus the user obtains an updated display with the new interactive media selected which comprises a corresponding new set of option buttons and multiple choices etc. Then the user continues to guide the dynamic interactive media generation selecting a specific option button in response to which the mobile device receives next option of the current interactive media or a new one altogether and so on. Each of the screens presented to the user comprises come of the softkey or button selections start info suppl. for supplementary info next prev for previous print done exit forward select etc. On any screen as appropriate the user can select the exit button to exit from the current interactive media taking the user back to the welcome screen on which interactive media list is presented again or a done button to successfully finish an operation or to quit and go back to the power on screen.

The modules comprised by the media distribution server facilitate all the functions necessary to promote e business interactions and business information flows designed by the service providers. They make it possible for a service provider to interact with the mobile device and provide e business services sometimes referred to as m business services which stands for mobile business services . They also enable a user of the mobile device to conduct mobile transactions with the service providers such as request a service request a specific content from a content provide or to accomplish a particular task for e.g. an online purchase. The media distribution server of present invention also comprises an interactive media database and a transaction database that support such transactions business information flows and content distribution. The interactive media database comprises all the new and old interactive media that are to be distributed and those that were already distributed in the past respectively. The transaction database comprises all the information relevant to the transactions that are completed. The transactions in that database comprise those items that are sold online and also those items for which a trial product may be requested or a sample product may be delivered.

The product trial information managed by a product trail manager comprises information such as a trial period a start of trial an end period of the trial conditions stipulated for the trial period etc. A billing and shipping database comprises a billing address and a shipping address for mobile users especially for those who have conducted sales transactions using their mobile devices . Furthermore the billing and shipping database also contains information on whether the marketing company service providers and content providers companies has shipped the product to a buyer s contact address.

The media distribution server of the present invention also comprises a user targeting module and an E mail service module . The user targeting module gathers browsing interest and habit related history of mobile user which helps communicating relevant type of interactive media to him her. The E mail service module receives the E mail address part of the user response when the contact details are furnished by the user and delivers E mails on important transactions such as purchase appointment product trial details licenses acknowledgement user confirmation etc.

The mobile device service and content provider coordinator module coordinator module in short of the media distribution server coordinates the exchange of messages and controls information flow between the mobile devices and a service provider system or a content provider systems . As the interaction between two entities such as system server client device etc. take place in a handshake mode it always proceeds with a response from one entity say entity in one direction to another entity say entity . It coordinates delivery of a response by a recipient entity in the opposite direction that is from entity to entity to accomplish an action and a series of such action will constitute a task. For example responses will be appropriately relayed or forwarded in either directions by the coordinator module .

A busy schedule manager performs scheduling management i.e. the exchange of message and control information regarding availability and scheduled tasks between two entities on the network such as by sensing the traffic conditions and information delivery expectations. The interaction between the media distribution server and the mobile device or the media distribution server and the service or the content provider system sometimes requires a tracking and scheduling mechanism which is performed by the busy schedule manager .

A product trial manager in the media distribution server keeps track of the details of the sample trial requests made by the mobile device user. The product trial manager assists by prompting a user on behalf of or as instructed the service or contents provider system for a sample product delivery or a trial period establishment with accompanying product delivery. It also keeps track of the trial duration and user feedback during the trial period for further follow up actions.

A product and services description module and a dynamic media development module in the media distribution server collaborate to generate the interactive media or content in general that is dynamically created and delivered to the mobile user. This collaboration occurs using the inputs provided by the mobile device users and the information provided by the service or the content providers. The product and the service description module has a generic description of the interactive media that describes a product or a service that is accessed or consumed by the mobile device user. In one embodiment a generic form of interactive media is assembled constructed and maintained in a library. The dynamic media development module receives inputs from the mobile device users and the service or the content providers and customizes the generic interactive media and subsequently delivers them to the mobile users. Furthermore in a related embodiment the dynamic media development module queues up new interactive media into the interactive media database for the subsequent delivery to the mobile device.

A workflow manager plays a role of setting up information flow as per a pre defined work flow. It also establishes reporting tasks billing tasks backup and restore activities communication links as necessary. It receives inputs from different entities and responds appropriately. It prompts an entity for e.g. a mobile device with a query and receives its response and for example as per a work flow forwards it to a service provider system or a content provider system .

In accordance with the present invention the interactive media is an XML document comprising multiple items wherein each of the multiple items comprises a text graphics audio segments and or video clips. Each of the multiple items may comprise a multiple choice set that is displayed to a user to solicit user response. User response can also be in the form of a recorded message digitally recorded by the mobile device . User responses collated by the mobile device in selections from a multiple choice set for the multiple items and or in the form of audio response to those items is communicated by the mobile device to the media distribution server .

In accordance with the present invention in one embodiment a tagged message in the a first piece of delivered code say in a web programming language is communicated to the mobile device and this first piece of code comprises a second piece of code such as a script or a program which selectively executes on the mobile device after it has been delivered. When this second piece of code runs on the mobile device it collects some details of user interaction and other associated information and sends it back as a response from the mobile device to the media distribution server . In a related embodiment the first piece of code is an XML based document comprising the interactive media and the second piece of code is an executable code that collects user responses and communicates it to the media distribution server .

Similarly the media distribution server also sends code in the interactive media along with control information or configuration information to the mobile device gathers responses and communicates them to the service provider system or the content provider system .

In one embodiment the media distribution server also sends code along with responses to the service provider system or the content provider system . The code that s sent by the media distribution server running on the service or the content provider system collects all the interaction information and sends back to the media distribution server .

In one embodiment the media distribution server delivers code to the mobile device that determines what is displayed to the user say within a current screen and the multiple choice options presented. The response to the options selected by the user of the mobile device from the screen flows back to the media distribution server as control information which helps in preparing a next screen of information or in the assembly or generation of a new piece of code to be delivered next. For example the code delivered to the mobile device contains a message that will appear verbatim along with some tagged objects on the screen for e.g. text in the option button and the multiple choice selections. The user response subsequently collected from the mobile device contains the control information which makes the media distribution server perform a next task decide on next course of action for e.g. delivering additional code that ends up creating a next screen on the mobile device that contains new information and user selectable options.

A webserver calendar module facilitates processing of online appointment requests made by a mobile device user and distribution of appointment information communicated by a service provider system to the user of the mobile device . When a mobile device user makes a request for an appointment with the media distribution server the webserver calendar module of the media distribution server prompts the respective service provider system or a content provider system with an instance of iCal data internet calendar application . The service or content provider systems then make entries in their calendar modules using the iCal data provided and sends it a confirmation back or an alternate iCal data back to the media distribution server . The media distribution server forwards the confirmation information or the alternate iCal data it to the mobile device user who had made a request for an appointment. Based on this iCal data provided which is stored in the mobile device such as in a calendar client the mobile user prepares for a meeting as per the entries made in the iCal by the respective service or content provider. The iCal data sent to the mobile device or schedule information in other formats is associated with a scheduled meeting such a scheduled meeting being arranged to see a real estate property on sale tryout a membership at a local fitness center meet a broker for some investment advice etc. It can also be a schedule for a telephonic conversation a conference call an e mail exchange a instant messaging chat a meeting with an individual a testing of a service or a content a meeting with a service provider or a content provider s representative etc.

The media distribution server is communicatively coupled to the mobile device and service and content provider systems in accordance with the present invention. The media distribution server and the service provider system are communicatively coupled for example via the Internet . The content provider system and the hotspot access point are also communicatively coupled with media distribution server using the Internet . The mobile device may employ a cellular service or a WLAN or even a WiMAX service to establish communications with the media distribution server via the Internet .

The hotspot access point is further communicatively coupled with the mobile device . For example it is communicatively coupled using the antenna and the upward and downward wireless links and respectively. The hotspot access point is a WLAN access hotspot such as those used for WiFi communications in one embodiment and is a cellular network access point in another. In general the hotspot access point is a wireless digital interface that delivers interactive media from the media distribution server and collects the user s response from the mobile device .

The mobile device has a joystick which aids navigation and scrolling and softkeys which helps in selecting a menu item from a menu list or a media list displayed. It also selectively employs the joystick and the softkeys to enable user selection from multiple choices provided or form option buttons displayed on a screen displayed on the mobile device .

The service provider system is a computer or a server through which service and product related ads and information are submitted to the media distribution server via the Internet . The content provider system is a computer through which the content providers deliver contents such as MP3 based songs video clips news and event related information advertisements to the media distribution server so that the media distribution server distributes them among a large community of mobile users.

In one embodiment the media distribution server inserts advertisements provided by a content provider system into an interactive media such as a questionnaire or a recipe provided by the service provider system and delivers the combined interactive media with its embedded or associated advertisement to the mobile device .

The media distribution server employs several databases which assist in gathering and maintaining all the media related interaction information. For example it employs the transaction database which maintains all the online transaction information such as purchases product trial and the online appointment related information. It also employs the billing and the shipping database that comprises all the billing and shipping details for the users and also maintains information on all the transaction conducted on the media distribution server .

The interactive media database contains all the interactive media that have been distributed. In particular it stores a reference to older interactive media in a queue called old interactive media queue and ones more recently generated some of them yet to be communicated to the mobile device referred to as new interactive media in a separate queue referred to as the new interactive media queue .

The user targeting module is a module which maintains the transaction history interactive media access history and habits of an individual mobile device user so that it can determine if the user makes a good target for the distribution of a new interactive media. The E mail service facilitates the retrieval of the E mail address information from a user registration database or from a stored user profile and the communication of invoices acknowledgements additional information requested by a user appointment information etc. to the user employing an email address associated with the user. In particular using the email address of the user it communicates acknowledgements on every successful transaction conducted by the user using the mobile device such acknowledgement and confirmation often originating at the service provider system or the content provider system .

The coordinator module has a role in coordinating interactions between the mobile device and the service provider system and the content provider system . The role of this module is often closely coupled with the role or function of i.e. the communication protocol set up by the workflow manager . The mobile device response receiver component of the coordinator module receives the user provided response from the mobile device such as multiple choice selections made by a user or an audio message recorded by the user during the review of an interactive media by the user on the mobile device . User selections of items in a multiple choice selection can be made for example employing a joystick on the mobile device . or using the softkeys provided by the mobile device on a screen displayed to the user. Such user response are in some embodiments used as inputs in generating subsequent interactive media portions or subsequent screens by the media distribution server . The service and content provider interaction interface facilitates the interactions with external systems such as the service provider system or the content provider system such interactions needed for the retrieval of the service provider s inputs and content provider s inputs. The inputs that are retrieved by the module are provided as inputs to the dynamic media development module which uses a generic media description tool the product and services description module that generates the interactive media using the inputs provided to queue up a next portion of interactive media or a new one in the new interface media queue of database for subsequent delivery to the mobile device .

The sales transaction manager conducts all the mobile sales transactions and maintains all the transaction related data that might be retrieved as a transaction report from the transaction database . The transaction report is periodically retrieved by a user of the media distribution server such as a manager associated with a service provider or a content provider. The sales transaction manager facilitates communication of an invoice to the mobile device for approval by a user and communication of sales confirmation by the media distribution server .

The busy schedule manager helps in the successful delivery of the interactive media to the mobile device as per a schedule of delivery. It also facilitates retrieval of a response from the mobile device based on a schedule or based on current traffic conditions. For example it does this task by tracking the traffic conditions on the network and deciding when it is appropriate to interact with the mobile device . Proper timing is very essential. When a user triggers a button on a screen on him mobile device resulting in a response being communicated to the media distribution server the media distribution server has to respond back to the user fairly quickly in time otherwise the interaction is likely to be perceived as tedious by the mobile user. Shorter the delay in responding to a user initiated interaction the more satisfactory is the user s experience is likely to be.

The product trial manager responds to all trial requests made by the users. It facilitates a follow up and maintains information such as the trial duration trial conditions etc. and communicates such information to both the mobile device user and the corresponding service and the content provider systems . The service and the content provider system then make arrangements for the sample product to be shipped to the user s contact address. If it is a software product for which a trail is requested by a user the trial period for the software is setup automatically by the product trial manager with associated start and end durations determined such as a period based on the date a mobile user makes the request.

The workflow manager sets up a communication link with a predefined type of interaction that take place among various entities i.e. between a mobile device and the media distribution server or between the media distribution server and the service or the content provider systems and respectively. Workflow is basically the exchange of data instructions control information and messages in a specific order or at specific times among the entities to accomplish a specific task for e.g. an online purchase.

The webserver calendar module fields appointment request by a user and sets up an appointment as requested by the mobile device user. For example when the mobile device user makes an appointment request by selecting the appointment multiple choice selection on a displayed item or activates a button on his screen the request is sent to the media distribution server . In response to this the server invokes an iCal manager that is a component in the webserver calendar module which creates a schedule or a calendar entry which is communicated to the mobile device as an iCal instance in iCal format for example . If for a particular service a service provider system is responsible for making appointments then the webserver calendar module requests the service provider system to generate an appointment. It provides the service provider system details of the mobile user such as a user profile and the specific item s of the corresponding interactive media such as real estate properties of interest for which the user has requested an appointment. Thus the mobile user is sent an instance of iCal internet calendar by the respective service or the content provider systems or by the media distribution server after they have created relevant appointment entries. The server for example forwards the iCal instance with the entries for an appointment to the mobile device user that may be displayed to the user on the mobile device in an appropriate screen enabling the user to prepare plan for a meeting with a representative of the service provider or the content provider. For example the appointment can be for a telephonic conversation a call conference an E mail chat or a meeting in person with the representatives of the service or the content providers.

In one embodiment a client in the mobile device makes it possible to download and display interactive media from the media distribution server whenever the user so desires. It also receives notifications from the media distribution server regarding the availability of new interactive media. In a related embodiment it gets interactive media and other content pushed to it from the media distribution server . In particular it gets recipes from the media distribution server and displays it to the user. The recipes are audio assisted recipes with step by step audio instructions for the various steps of the recipe. These steps are enhanced with graphic aids and textual descriptions of the steps and the ingredients used in those steps. Each recipe also comes with a list of ingredients that can be viewed by activating an Info softkey or button on the screens. In addition these recipes can be selectively saved in the mobile device . The audio instructions are typically provided by a chef or a famous celebrity whose achievements and recipes the user of the mobile device is keen on following as a fan or a subscriber . The graphic aid for each step can be graphics digital image or a photo graph for example of a utensil an appliance relevant to the recipe of ingredients used etc. In addition a graphical image of the chef or the celebrity associated with the recipe is also displayed such as in a corner of the screen. In another related embodiment the recipes are video assisted recipes providing video clips with audio accompaniment with step by step video instructions for the various steps of the recipe. Textual descriptions of the text are also provided and supplementary information provided comprising the various ingredients utensils dinner placements and appliances.

In one embodiment the media distribution server assembles one or more textual graphics audio video and multiple choice content into a delivered interactive media that has been delivered by a service provider system or a content provider system creating an assembled interactive media. It also incorporates one or more advertisements into the assembled interactive media creating a new customized interactive media that can be delivered to a user of the mobile device .

In one embodiment the mobile device presents a list of available interactive media to a user of the mobile device and solicits a user selection. It then retrieves a selected interactive media based on the user selection wherein the selected interactive media comprises an inserted advertisement and an other content . For example the other content comprises one or more portions of an interactive media with each portion comprising a textual component a graphics component an audio component and an optional video component etc. The mobile device displays the inserted advertisement provided in the interactive media. It also displays the other content. It can display based upon a configuration provided in the other content or in the advertisement portion or even as metadata the advertisement before during or after the display of the other content. Thus the mobile device displays the inserted advertisement before after or during the display of the other content based on such configuration information.

More common categories of the interactive media libraries are real estate library product and services library news and the events library cartoon library dynamically assembled contents and other general category of library. Dynamically assembled contents are the interactive media generated based on the dynamic content assembly rules or dynamic assembly of interactive media based on parameters or inputs received from different entities. The inputs resulting in the dynamic interactive media are typically retrieved from the mobile user during his interaction with the mobile device .

In one embodiment the interactive media database comprises two main queues one consisting all the new interactive media which are yet to delivered to the mobile devices such as mobile device and the other consisting of all the old interactive media that have been already delivered to the mobile devices. The new interactive media queue has categorized libraries such as real estate library product and services library news and events library cartoon library other types interactive media library and dynamically assembled contents interactive media library . The old interactive media queue has all the old interactive media that have already been delivered to the mobile devices but still maintained for the later reference.

The real estate library contains all the interactive media related to the real estate sales and property management business. When interactive media for real estate information is presented to a mobile user on his mobile device the user is provided an opportunity to request an appointment. For example a radio button labeled make an appointment is provided which when clicked communicates a request by the mobile users to setup an appointment. The workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up an appointment generation and schedule communication task s that processes appointment request from the user and facilitates setting up of an appointment to see a property advertised for sale or rental or meet an individual associated with a service provider.

The interactive media database comprises all the interactive media that are referred to or described by the product and services description module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention based on content and configuration received from the service provider system or content provider system .

The product and services library contains all the interactive media related to the products to and services provided by mobile businesses companies. The product information based interactive media comprise of a list of products and services wherein each item in the list can be viewed by the user one at a time when the interactive media is delivered to the user on his mobile device .

The news and event library comprises all the interactive media provided by news organizations and online news publishing systems that serve as content providers on the network . This library comprises content that are basically news in brief hat can be dynamically assembled into interactive media of interest to the user. In addition they can incorporate different kinds of events wherein the details of the events are short messages on public private events of interest to a user.

A cartoon library contains all the interactive media related to the cartoon art and animated video clips etc. as entertainment online. An others category library contains all the miscellaneous interactive media. The dynamically assembled contents are the interactive media which are modified and delivered on the fly processing responses and sometimes incorporating instantaneous inputs from the mobile device users.

Subsequent interactive inputs provided by both the mobile device user and service or content providers further guide dynamic generation of interactive media. This can be used to convert a generic mobile online transaction into a specific type of task e.g. purchase of a product appointment request setting up a trial of a sample product terminating a transaction exit etc. For example if an online purchase is conducted by the user dynamic media description module translates the interaction into a financial transactions incorporating data such as billing payment service charge settlement etc. into a specific task. For example thus task is used for transactions related to purchase of a specific product by a user with specific predefined sequence of inputs provided.

After the complete generation of the interactive media based on templates and inputs it is inserted into an interactive media queue called new interactive media queue. The media distribution server of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention distributes it to all the mobile devices. Once an interactive media is delivered to the relevant mobile devices it will be moved to an old interactive media queue after some specific time as a backup. This backup is for later reference.

Additional inputs for a complete description of the interactive media are accessed from service and the content provider parameter interface and of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated and a mobile device user input parameters interface module that provides interactive inputs received from the mobile device users of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated . Images pictures and graphics inputs are retrieved from the respective service and content providers employing a graphics and picture inputs interface . Also some generic pictures and images are picked as inputs from an internal image and picture library provided by the graphics and picture inputs interface . Other type of inputs to module are audio and video clips which are highly efficient means of providing interactive media to the mobile devices in accordance with the present invention.

Completely described and defined interactive media that are based on templates and dynamically assembled are queued up in a queue called the new interactive media queue of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated for the subsequent delivery on the mobile devices of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. The new interactive media queue is like a stack of items or objects that operate according to a distribution scheme such as a first in first out scheme. This means that an interactive media which is stacked first into the new interactive media queue will be delivered first to the mobile devices of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. The interactive media such as interactive media interactive media interactive media etc. in the new interactive media queue will remain active for a specified duration of time and will be removed after that and taken to a backup called old interactive media queue of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention for later reference.

The interaction between a mobile device and the media distribution server typically start with the media distribution server delivering a list of available interactive media to the mobile device . The mobile user using the mobile device initiates subsequent interaction with the media distribution server by selecting a suitable choice from his her screen which results in a response message shown by an inward arrow towards the media distribution server . In response to this user selections choices the media distribution sever prepares new multimedia interactive media content to be presented in subsequent screens based on the options selected and communicates back such content shown by an outward arrow towards the mobile device . Further selections made by the user on the subsequent mobile screens will result in a similar response from the media distribution server . Such interactions are continued until a predefined task is completed. Also the task maybe terminated by selecting an exit or a done button from the screen on the mobile device at any time.

In some embodiment the interactive media delivery process is initiated with the request made by a service provider or a content provider interacting online or through some other means the media distribution server administration for marketing products or services or for some business assistance such as for placements of an ad or advertisement . In this process the service or the content providers employing the respective service provider system or the content provider system share their product and the service details generally electronically online with the media distribution server in a predefined format . This information forms the basic required input for the product and services description module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. Using this initially shared information the product and services description module generates the interactive media and puts it in a queue to be delivered to the mobile devices .

The display screens for the interactive media on the mobile device are data driven and are facilitated by a client component. Being data driven they undergo further modifications as dynamic data content is assembled and delivered to the mobile device by the media development module based on interactive inputs from the mobile devices in accordance the present invention. And subsequently a continued participation of mobile user in interaction process successfully accomplishes the objective business or service task. In this continued interaction between the mobile device user and the media distribution server the service or the content providers are also involved through user requests forwarded to them or solicitations for more information forwarded to them by the media distribution server .

The block diagram of shows the two way interaction among various entities that are involved in the delivery of the interactive media to the mobile devices. The media distribution server of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated has its essential components shown such as the dynamic media development module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated and mobile device service and content provider coordinator module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated . The media distribution server is communicatively coupled with the mobile device to accomplish the two way viz. the upward and downward interactions respectively.

For initially providing content and associated meta information and for subsequently providing additional content in the middle of a user interaction process the service provider system of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated employs a two way communication viz. the upward link from media distribution server and the downward link respectively. Similarly for a media or content propagation using the mobile devices the content provider system of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention repeated also employs a two way interaction viz. upward link and the downward link respectively with the media distribution server . The upward and the downward communication protocols are set up using the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. These protocols are predefined for all the possible interactions during interactive media delivery.

In order to avoid cluttering the screen on the mobile device descriptive audio and or video clips provided with most of the interactive media are delivered to the mobile device and rendered played in accordance with the present invention. Audio guided interactive media have the advantage of being localized to the locale language of the mobile user as the mobile user can listen to media description in a language of his choice. In another embodiment of the present inventions video clips are associated with the interactive media to augment the corresponding product service descriptions which may have text and graphics too more effectively.

In one embodiment the computational resource limitation on the mobile devices is circumvented by an interactive screen generation facility supported by the media distribution server of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. Every screenful of information is retrieved from a portion of interactive media delivered to the device. The interactive media is assembled or generated by the media distribution server in portions based on previous user selections and preferences and then delivered to the mobile device. For example in the display of one exemplary interactive media the first screen is the Welcome screen containing the list of all the interactive media. The users start interaction by selecting a particular interactive media of his choice from the welcome screen in response to which another screen containing various options on that particular product or service will be delivered by the media distribution server to the mobile device. Subsequent screens deliver portions of the particular interactive media selected by the user the portions being based on the user s choice or options made on the current screen using his her mobile device softkeys.

Exemplary screens and of respectively depict successive displays provided to the mobile device of the user wherein the user is able to select one of a list of interactive media the list delivered to the mobile device by the media distribution server. The list in a related embodiment is provided by the media distribution server in response to an user s request for interactive media.

The mobile device display screen of is a welcome screen for a client component that facilitates viewing of interactive media. The welcome screen often plays a jingle provides a splash screen prompts users to login selectively and makes it possible for a user to select interactive media that can be delivered by the media distribution server to the mobile device. It provides a category list for interactive media list . The exemplary categories are products and services Real estate news and events cartoons etc. Each of these categories comprise interactive media of respective type which a user can select using softkey on the mobile keypad of the mobile device.

The option softkey buttons on the mobile device display screen are the Start button Info button Next button Done button Print button Suppl. supplementary Info button Exit button and Select button . A user selects various soft buttons using the softkey from the keypad . In the mobile device has the screen area and the keypad which contains various keys including the joystick a call connect key also used as softkey for menu item selection and a call disconnect key also used as softkey for menu item selection . In one embodiment the buttons and are replaced by corresponding menu items selectable using the softkeys and the joystick .

The list of items comprises a list of product and services items etc. The option buttons which are provided as selectable menu items in a different embodiment on this screen are a Start button an Info button a Next button a Prev previous button a Print button a Forward button an Exit button and a Select button . Use of other buttons are also contemplated. An user selects various menu items or buttons using the joystick from the keypad and associated softkeys .

The exemplary mobile device screen of is the screen displayed when the user selects one of a list of products and services displayed to the user on the mobile device. For example from the screen displayed in comprising a list of product and services the user can select one of them and in response the screen is displayed. The screen comprises a textual and graphic display section and a multiple choice display section . The location relative positions size and other characteristics of these two sections are configurable and changeable. The mobile device also provides a keypad which contains various keys such as the softkey a call connect key and a call disconnect key .

The textual and graphic display section on the exemplary screen of the mobile device displays information on the product and service item selected in the screen of . The associated multiple choices displayed are Make Appointment Sample Order Purchase Order Interested Trial Store in wishlist Not in this Neighborhood and Not my Type options. Other sets of multiple choice selections can be supported. Both exclusive and multiple selections are supported.

The exemplary option buttons displayed on this screen are a Start button an Info button a Next button a Prev previous button a Print button a Suppl. Info button an Exit button and a Select button . A user selects various soft buttons using the softkey provided or the joystick .

In the exemplary screen shown in if the user were interested in requesting a sample or in ordering deliver of a sample such as a free sample of a product the user would highlight the menu item entry or button Sample Order if a the menu list is displayed the appropriate item in the menu list can be selected . Such selections is made for the item such as sample order using the select button for example . In response to this the media distribution server generates and delivers a next portion of the interactive media as necessary which would be displayed in an exemplary mobile device display screen of .

The exemplary mobile device screen of provides details of a sample order requested by a user. For example if the user selects the menu item Sample Order displayed in the details of the sample order are presented to the user in screen wherein the user is prompted to provide a shipping address and other related information. In the mobile device presents the sample order screen section and a list of items section . Using a keypad which contains various keys along with a joystick a call connect key and a call disconnect key the user can enter the prompted data and interact with the screen.

In one embodiment the screen for sample order requests comprises a section List of Items that makes it possible for a user to provide a shipping address information comprising a label street address city state country and zip code. The mobile device user enters those items and selects the Send option button or alternatively a menu item to deliver this information to a remote media distribution server in accordance with the present invention.

The user selects the Send button using the softkey for example from the keypad to proceed to communicate the shipping address to the media distribution server such as the media distribution server of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. The media distribution server in response forwards this information to a corresponding service provider system. The service provider system arranges the delivery of a sample to the user. The sample is delivered employing the furnished shipping address. After sending the shipping address in the screen user selects the Exit button to return to the Welcome screen of . In addition the user can also select a Done button to return to the power on screen.

In general the selection of the Start button enables the interaction on any screen. The selection of Info button furnishes the information on the selected item such information provided in audio voice form to the user. If the Suppl. Info button is activated by a user additional information on the selected item such as a product or service is provided such supplementary information comprising information provided as necessary in textual graphics and audio formats. For example the supplementary information provided can be a combination of a textual description of a product or service that is also accompanied by an audio description such a human voice describing the product or service . In some cases video clips describing the selected item in more detail is provided.

In general the Next and Prev buttons are used for the navigation purpose from screen to screen. The Done button takes is used to exit the use of the client application thereby taking the user to a main screen such as a power on screen. The select button typically selects an item that is currently highlighted in a list presented to a user. The print button helps to print the current screen content on a printer for example employing a Bluetooth communication means. The Send button sends the current screen content which the user has entered for example back to the media distribution server or to some other server as relevant. The Forward button forwards an interactive media to another mobile device or to another user.

In general the workflow manager associated with the media distribution server receives inputs from different entities and responds appropriately. It prompts an entity for e.g. a mobile device with a query and receives its response. In one embodiment of the present invention tagged media control information message options etc. using a web programming language code for example is communicated to the mobile device . The web programming language code also comprises another piece of code which runs from the mobile device screen. When this piece of code executes on the mobile device screen it collects all the interaction information and sends it back as the response from the mobile device to the media distribution server. The media distribution server then presents it to the workflow manager which determines the succeeding step in a work flow. Similarly the media distribution server also communicates a second code comprising appropriate queries and messages and even some control information to the service provider system or a content provider system. The second code that is sent by the media distribution server running on the service provider system or the content provider system collects all the interaction information needed and sends it back to the media distribution server for processing.

In general an interactive media list is delivered to the user of the mobile device on a welcome screen splash screen of a client application in accordance with the present invention. Based upon this list the user makes a selection of the interactive media of his interest and starts interacting with the presented interactive media by choosing different portions providing user inputs and triggering audio information play video information display graphics display multiple choice selections etc. The user interaction depends on the screen view presented to the user on his mobile some of which is in response to the user s previous interaction.

The generation of the interactive media starts with the service or the content providers delivering the product details comprising product or service parameters to the media distribution server of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. For example The parameters provided describe a new product new service or a new interactive media.

The interaction diagram of explains the interaction sequence involved between a media distribution server such as of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention a mobile device such as the device of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention and the service provider system such as of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention . Each of the emerging skewed arrows from an entity indicates information flow associated with a current response corresponding to a current screen displayed on the mobile device. The skew in the arrow lines indicates exemplary time dependencies in the interaction process as the information flow are presented in an exemplary timeline to indicate the chronology of actions taking place in the .

In one embodiment the service provider system provides the new product description information to the media distribution server . The product and services description module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention generates new interactive media and puts it into the new interactive media queue of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. The media distribution server delivers this interactive media from the new interactive media queue of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention on a welcome screen to the mobile device . A mobile user selects an interactive media item from the list presented. This selection response is communicated to the media distribution server as an open interactive media message in response to which the media distribution server delivers the next portion of interactive media in which it presents a message prompting the user ti make a selection from a product list. On an associated screen the user makes a selection to respond with a product chosen message which is communicated back to the media distribution server . On a next portion of the interactive media delivered by media distribution server there is a message containing a purchase option. In response to this portion of interactive media the user responds by a selecting the purchase option and thereby making purchase request communicating the message to the media distribution server .

The purchase request is made by selecting the product from the product list on its screen which opens a new screen containing the multiple choices such as purchase not interested interested and store in wishlist . Mobile user selects the purchase option using softkeys on his mobile device keypad. This results in conveying a purchase request message to the media distribution server.

Upon receiving the signal the media distribution server generates next portion of the interactive media to be displayed in a next screen to the user for example . For example this next portion of the interactive media may prompt the mobile user to approve of a purchase order representing the user with the detailed price information message. It may also subsequently prompt the user to provide pay mode details . For example the user may be presented with a screen prompting the user to provide approval on the price and specify the mode of payment. The mobile user provides the online pay details information which is communicated back to the media distribution server . In response to the pay details sent by mobile user the media distribution server sends such invoice details information and at the same it delivers acknowledge purchase and pay message to the service provider system . Subsequently the media distribution server dispatches acknowledge invoice message to the service provider system and initiates product delivery modes message to the mobile device .

Basically the product delivery mode is the way through which the product is going to be delivered to the mobile device user. The user is prompted with multiple choice options to be selected by the user. The user makes a selection generating the delivery request message to the media distribution server . The media distribution server forwards this message as a forwarded delivery request to the service provider system . Upon receiving the message the service provider delivers the confirmed delivery request message to the media distribution server which it forwards to the mobile device as a forwarded confirmed delivery request message .

On the day or time when the service provider dispatches the mobile purchased product for delivery to the mobile user the service provider system communicates a product dispatched message to the media distribution server which it delivers as the forwarded product dispatched message to the mobile user. On the day or time when the user receives the product the mobile device actually the appropriate client application in the mobiledevice sends a product received acknowledgement message to the media distribution server which the media distribution server delivers as a product received acknowledgement message to the service provider system .

Once the media distribution server sends the product received acknowledgement to the service provider it starts processing the service charges due to the service provider. It prompts for details of service charges sending the message to the service provider system in response to which the service provider system communicates service charges online along with paid service charge message delivered to the media distribution server . The media distribution server confirms the receipt of the service by acknowledging the service provider with a message . This completes the chronology of the purchase workflow managed by the workflow manager associated with the media distribution server .

The media distribution server receives the user response when the user selects any of the multiple choice or option buttons on a screen. Then the media distribution server prepares a next screen or message or a next portion of the interactive media and delivers it to the mobile device for display to the user. In this process it also receives external inputs from the service or the content providers whenever required. The media distribution server modules process the external and the user inputs and generate the interactive media that is subsequently delivered to the user on the mobile device.

In general the user interacts with the interactive media actually the client displaying the interactive media on the mobile device making choices selecting from presented options such selections made using the joystick and or the softkeys provided on the mobile device keypad. Each time the user makes a choice from a screen it is either collated for subsequent delivery or immediately communicated back to the media distribution server. A new screen with a next portion of the interactive media is then presented to the user or a new information message is generated dynamically and delivered to the user by the media distribution server.

Processing of a user s request for an interactive media starts at a start block . At next block the media distribution server generates the interactive media based on the external inputs provided by the service or content providers. It distributes the generated interactive media to the mobile devices. At next block the media distribution server receives response or inputs or control information for generation of a next portion of an interactive media or a next screen generation or action from the mobile device user. Based on this response or user input the media distribution server generates a next portion of an interactive media or performs the next action.

At the subsequent decision block the media distribution server checks whether the user has responded by selecting the exit button. If the user has responded by selecting the exit button the processing continues at a next block to delivers the welcome screen with the interactive media list. Otherwise processing continues at the next decision block where the distribution server checks whether a done button is selected by a user.

If at the block the media distribution server finds that the done button has been selected then the media distribution server delivers the power on screen at a next block else it processes the user s response and prepares for external interactions with the service or the content providers in a next block .

Then at the next block the media distribution server prompts service or the content providers for the external inputs and receives them at a next block . Subsequently at a next block it updates interactive media with new inputs and delivers them on the mobile device again as a next portion of an interactive media or as a new screen with new message on it. It receives the user s options and makes decision to generate the next screen at a next block . At next decision block the media distribution server checks whether the current interaction is the last one needed in accomplishing the task such a purchase a product trial request etc. If not processing is passed to the next block to receive the mobile users response and continues else processing continues at a next block where the media distribution server prepares to coordinate assembling of a shipping information. For example information related to shipping of the purchased item is assembled by interacting both with the mobile device user and the service or the content providers.

At the next block the media distribution server coordinates the billing of the purchased items and settlement of the payment. Subsequently at a next block the media distribution server prompts for the settlement of the service charges in response to which the service or the content providers makes arrangement for online settlement of service charges. The receipt of service changes is acknowledged by the media distribution server. Then the processing continues at the block where the whole sequence of the operation is repeated.

On selection of any one of these multiple choice item a predefined sequence of the message and control information exchange takes place using the web programming code for e.g. XML results in a predefined sequence of the screens delivered to the mobile device to accomplish a predefined task for e.g. an online purchase .

Flowchart of describes an exemplary operation performed by the workflow manager of the media distribution server of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. The process starts at a block . Then at a next block the workflow manager delivers a message in the form of interactive media list that is typically presented to a mobile device user on a welcome screen such as on the mobile device of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention. In response to this the work flow manager instructs the media distribution server collects user response such as a user response provided after opening an interactive media screen and the selecting option buttons on it. Upon receiving the selected option information from the mobile device at a next decision block it tests whether the option selected is the done button from a current screen. If it is found to be true then it process the next screen as the power on screen at the block to deliver to the mobile device otherwise processing continues at a next decision block .

At the decision block it tests whether the selected option is an online appointment button. If it is true then the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up an appointment communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise it goes to the next decision block . If it s found to be a purchase option made by the user at then the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up purchase communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise the processing proceeds to a next decision block .

In the decision block if it s determined that the multiple choice selection by the user is an interested option selected by the user then the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up interested communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise processing proceeds to a next decision block . At the decision block if it s determined that the multiple choice selection made by a user is a trial option made by the mobile user the workflow manager module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up trial communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise processing proceeds to a next decision block .

At the decision block if it s found to be sample option made by the user then the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up sample communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task else it goes to the next decision block . At the decision block if it s found to be the wishlist option made by the mobile user the workflow manager module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up wishlist communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise processing proceeds to a next decision block .

In the decision block if it s determined that the multiple choice selection made by a user is not in this neighborhood option the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up not in this neighborhood communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise processing proceeds to a next decision block . At the decision block if it s determined that the user s multiple choice selection is not my type option made by the mobile user the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up not in my type communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise processing proceeds to a next decision block .

At decision block if it is determined that the multiple choice selection or user selection of a menu item is an exit option selected by the user then the workflow manager of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention restores welcome screen on the mobile display at the block otherwise processing proceeds to a next decision block . At the decision block if it is determined that the user selection of a multiple choice set presented or a user selection of a menu item displayed is a forward option the workflow manager module of is a perspective block diagram of the network containing a media distribution server mobile device and service and content provider system in accordance with the present invention sets up forward communication protocol at the block and the corresponding chronology of actions are prompted to accomplish that task otherwise processing proceeds to a next block where it restores the welcome screen on the mobile device display. Then from the block processing proceeds to the next block from where it continues again.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the terms operably coupled and communicatively coupled as may be used herein include direct coupling and indirect coupling via another component element circuit or module where for indirect coupling the intervening component element circuit or module does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As one of ordinary skill in the art will also appreciate inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two elements in the same manner as operably coupled and communicatively coupled. 

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

Moreover although described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding by way of the aforementioned embodiments the present invention is not limited to such embodiments. It will be obvious to one of average skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be practiced within the spirit and scope of the invention as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

