---

title: Rendering advertisements with documents having one or more topics using user topic interest information
abstract: Ambiguities with respect to a user topic interest may be resolved so that useful topic-relevant ads can be presented. Such ambiguities may be resolved by monitoring user behavior, determining a user topic interest (e.g., from a plurality of different candidate topics) based on the monitored behavior, and serving ads relevant to the determined user topic interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090706&OS=08090706&RS=08090706
owner: Google, Inc.
number: 08090706
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 610 322 incorporated herein by reference titled RENDERING ADVERTISEMENTS WITH DOCUMENTS HAVING ONE OR MORE TOPICS USING USER TOPIC INTEREST INFORMATION filed on Jun. 30 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 346 606 and listing Krishna Bharat as the inventor.

The present invention concerns advertising. In particular the present invention concerns the targeted serving and rendering of ads.

Advertising using traditional media such as television radio newspapers and magazines is well known. Unfortunately even when armed with demographic studies and entirely reasonable assumptions about the typical audience of various media outlets advertisers recognize that much of their ad budget is simply wasted. Moreover it is very difficult to identify and eliminate such waste.

Recently advertising over more interactive media has become popular. For example as the number of people using the Internet has exploded advertisers have come to appreciate media and services offered over the Internet as a potentially powerful way to advertise.

Advertisers have developed several strategies in an attempt to maximize the value of such advertising. In one strategy advertisers use popular presences or means for providing interactive media or services referred to as Web sites in the specification without loss of generality as conduits to reach a large audience. Using this first approach an advertiser may place ads on the home page of the New York Times Web site or the USA Today Web site for example. In another strategy an advertiser may attempt to target its ads to more narrow niche audiences thereby increasing the likelihood of a positive response by the audience. For example an agency promoting tourism in the Costa Rican rainforest might place ads on the ecotourism travel subdirectory of the Yahoo Web site. An advertiser will normally determine such targeting manually.

Regardless of the strategy Web site based ads also referred to as Web ads are typically presented to their advertising audience in the form of banner ads i.e. a rectangular box that includes graphic components. When a member of the advertising audience referred to as a viewer or user in the Specification without loss of generality selects one of these banner ads by clicking on it embedded hypertext links typically direct the viewer to the advertiser s Web site. This process wherein the viewer selects an ad is commonly referred to as a click through Click through is intended to cover any user selection. . The ratio of the number of click throughs to the number of impressions of the ad i.e. the number of times an ad is displayed is commonly referred to as the click through rate of the ad.

A conversion is said to occur when a user consummates a transaction related to a previously served ad. What constitutes a conversion may vary from case to case and can be determined in a variety of ways. For example it may be the case that a conversion occurs when a user clicks on an ad is referred to the advertiser s web page and consummates a purchase there before leaving that web page. Alternatively a conversion may be defined as a user being shown an ad and making a purchase on the advertiser s web page within a predetermined time e.g. seven days . In yet another alternative a conversion may be defined by an advertiser to be any measurable observable user action such as for example downloading a white paper navigating to at least a given depth of a Website viewing at least a certain number of Web pages spending at least a predetermined amount of time on a Website or Web page etc. Often if user actions don t indicate a consummated purchase they may indicate a sales lead although user actions constituting a conversion are not limited to this. Indeed many other definitions of what constitutes a conversion are possible. The ratio of the number of conversions to the number of impressions of the ad i.e. the number of times an ad is displayed is commonly referred to as the conversion rate. If a conversion is defined to be able to occur within a predetermined time since the serving of an ad one possible definition of the conversion rate might only consider ads that have been served more than the predetermined time in the past.

Despite the initial promise of Web site based advertisement there remain several problems with existing approaches. Although advertisers are able to reach a large audience they are frequently dissatisfied with the return on their advertisement investment.

Similarly the hosts of Web sites on which the ads are presented referred to as Web site hosts or ad consumers have the challenge of maximizing ad revenue without impairing their users experience. Some Web site hosts have chosen to place advertising revenues over the interests of users. One such Web site is Overture.com which hosts a so called search engine service returning advertisements masquerading as search results in response to user queries. The Overture.com web site permits advertisers to pay to position an ad for their Web site or a target Web site higher up on the list of purported search results. If such schemes where the advertiser only pays if a user clicks on the ad i.e. cost per click are implemented the advertiser lacks incentive to target their ads effectively since a poorly targeted ad will not be clicked and therefore will not require payment. Consequently high cost per click ads show up near or at the top but do not necessarily translate into real revenue for the ad publisher because viewers don t click on them. Furthermore ads that viewers would click on are further down the list or not on the list at all and so relevancy of ads is compromised.

Search engines such as Google for example have enabled advertisers to target their ads so that they will be rendered with a search results page and so that they will be relevant presumably to the query that prompted the search results page. Although search result pages afford advertisers a great opportunity to target their ads to a more receptive audience some queries may have alternative interpretations. For example the query term jaguar could refer to the car by that name the animal by that name the NFL football team by that name etc. If the user is interested in the animal then the user might not be interested in search results which pertain to the car or NFL football team. Similarly the user might not be interested in advertisements targeted to the keyword Jaguar but that pertain to the car or NFL football team. Therefore it would be useful to resolve ambiguities such as those like the one described above so that ads presented will more likely be of interest to the user.

Other targeted advertising systems such as those that target ads based on e mail information See e.g. the systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 452 830 incorporated herein by reference entitled SERVING ADVERTISEMENTS USING INFORMATION ASSOCIATED WITH E MAIL filed on Jun. 2 2003 and listing Jeffrey A. Dean Georges R. Harik and Paul Bucheit or those that target ads based on content See e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 375 900 incorporated herein by reference entitled SERVING ADVERTISEMENTS BASED ON CONTENT filed on Feb. 26 2003 and listing Darrell Anderson Paul Bucheit Alex Carobus Claire Cui Jeffrey A. Dean Georges R. Harik Deepak Jindal and Narayanan Shivakumar may have similar challenges. That is advertising systems would like to present advertisements that are relevant to the user requested information in general and related to the current user interest in particular.

When ads are shown in association with a document e.g. a Web page it is desirable that the ads be targeted based on the topic or topics suggested by the content of the document. Often however the document content may suggest different topics. Consequently the targeting of advertisements may be sub optimal because it is not clear which of the applicable topics the user is currently interested in. In general if a document has content concerning different topics it may be unclear which of the topics the user is most interested in at the moment. Consequently if topic relevant ads are to be presented it may be unclear which of a number of candidate topic relevant ads would be most useful to the user. Therefore if a document has different topics it would be useful to determine which of the different topics the user is most interested in at the moment so that topic relevant ads presented will more likely be of interest to the user.

The present invention helps resolve ambiguities with respect to a user topic interest so that useful topic relevant ads can be presented. The present invention may do so by tracking user behavior determining a user topic interest e.g. from a plurality of different candidate topics based on the monitored behavior and serving ads relevant to the determined user topic interest.

The present invention may involve novel methods apparatus message formats and or data structures for resolving ambiguities with respect to a user topic interest so that useful topic relevant ads can be presented. The following description is presented to enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of particular applications and their requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles set forth below may be applied to other embodiments and applications. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown and the inventors regard their invention as any patentable subject matter described.

In the following environments in which or with which the present invention may operate are described in 4.1. Then exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described in 4.2. Examples of operations are provided in 4.3. Finally some conclusions regarding the present invention are set forth in 4.4.

The ad server may be similar to the one described in FIG. 2 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 375 900 mentioned in 1.2 above. An advertising program may include information concerning accounts campaigns creatives targeting etc. The term account relates to information for a given advertiser e.g. a unique e mail address a password billing information etc. . A campaign or ad campaign refers to one or more groups of one or more advertisements and may include a start date an end date budget information geo targeting information syndication information etc. For example Honda may have one advertising campaign for its automotive line and a separate advertising campaign for its motorcycle line. The campaign for its automotive line have one or more ad groups each containing one or more ads. Each ad group may include targeting information e.g. a set of keywords a set of one or more topics etc. and price information e.g. maximum cost cost per click though cost per conversion etc. . Alternatively or in addition each ad group may include an average cost e.g. average cost per click through average cost per conversion etc. . Therefore a single maximum cost and or a single average cost may be associated with one or more keywords and or topics. As stated each ad group may have one or more ads or creatives That is ad content that is ultimately rendered to an end user. . Each ad may also include a link to a URL e.g. a landing Web page such as the home page of an advertiser or a Web page associated with a particular product or server . Naturally the ad information may include more or less information and may be organized in a number of different ways.

Thus one example of an ad consumer is a general content server that receives requests for documents e.g. articles discussion threads music video graphics search results Web page listings etc. and retrieves the requested document in response to or otherwise services the request. The content server may submit a request for ads to the ad server . Such an ad request may include a number of ads desired. The ad request may also include document request information. This information may include the document itself e.g. page a category or topic corresponding to the content of the document or the document request e.g. arts business computers arts movies arts music etc. part or all of the document request content age content type e.g. text graphics video audio mixed media etc. geolocation information document information etc.

The content server may combine the requested document with one or more of the advertisements provided by the ad server . This combined information including the document content and advertisement s is then forwarded towards the end user device that requested the document for presentation to the user. Finally the content server may transmit information about the ads and how when and or where the ads are to be rendered e.g. position click through or not impression time impression date size conversion or not etc. back to the ad server . Alternatively or in addition such information may be provided back to the ad server by some other means.

Another example of an ad consumer is the search engine . A search engine may receive queries for search results. In response the search engine may retrieve relevant search results e.g. from an index of Web pages . An exemplary search engine is described in the article S. Brin and L. Page The Anatomy of a Large Scale Hypertextual Search Engine Brisbane Australia and in U.S. Pat. No. 6 285 999 both incorporated herein by reference . Such search results may include for example lists of Web page titles snippets of text extracted from those Web pages and hypertext links to those Web pages and may be grouped into a predetermined number of e.g. ten search results.

The search engine may submit a request for ads to the ad server . The request may include a number of ads desired. This number may depend on the search results the amount of screen or page space occupied by the search results the size and shape of the ads etc. In one embodiment the number of desired ads will be from one to ten and preferably from three to five. The request for ads may also include the query as entered or parsed information based on the query such as geolocation information whether the query came from an affiliate and an identifier of such an affiliate and or information associated with or based on the search results. Such information may include for example identifiers related to the search results e.g. document identifiers or docIDs scores related to the search results e.g. information retrieval IR scores such as dot products of feature vectors corresponding to a query and a document Page Rank scores and or combinations of IR scores and Page Rank scores snippets of text extracted from identified documents e.g. Web pages full text of identified documents topics of identified documents feature vectors of identified documents etc.

The search engine may combine the search results with one or more of the advertisements provided by the ad server . This combined information including the search results and advertisement s is then forwarded towards the user that submitted the search for presentation to the user. Preferably the search results are maintained as distinct from the ads so as not to confuse the user between paid advertisements and presumably neutral search results.

Finally the search engine may transmit information about the ad and when where and or how the ad was to be rendered e.g. position click through or not impression time impression date size conversion or not etc. back to the ad server . Alternatively or in addition such information may be provided back to the ad server by some other means.

As discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 375 900 introduced in 1.2 above ads targeted to documents served by content servers may also be served.

Finally the e mail server may be thought of generally as a content server in which a document served is simply an e mail. Further e mail applications such as Microsoft Outlook for example may be used to send and or receive e mail. Therefore an e mail server or application may be thought of as an ad consumer . Thus e mails may be thought of as documents and targeted ads may be served in association with such documents. For example one or more ads may be served in under over or otherwise in association with an e mail.

Online ads such as those used in the exemplary systems described above with reference to or any other system may have various intrinsic features. Such features may be specified by an application and or an advertiser. These features are referred to as ad features below. For example in the case of a text ad ad features may include a title line ad text and an embedded link. In the case of an image ad ad features may include images executable code and an embedded link. Depending on the type of online ad ad features may include one or more of the following text a link an audio file a video file an image file executable code embedded information etc.

When an online ad is served one or more parameters may be used to describe how when and or where the ad was served. These parameters are referred to as serving parameters below. Serving parameters may include for example one or more of the following features of including information on a page on which the ad was served a search query or search results associated with the serving of the ad a user characteristic e.g. their geographic location the language used by the user the type of browser used previous page views previous behavior a host or affiliate site e.g. America Online Google Yahoo that initiated the request an absolute position of the ad on the page on which it was served a position spatial or temporal of the ad relative to other ads served an absolute size of the ad a size of the ad relative to other ads a color of the ad a number of other ads served types of other ads served time of day served time of week served time of year served etc. Naturally there are other serving parameters that may be used in the context of the invention.

Although serving parameters may be extrinsic to ad features they may be associated with an ad as serving conditions or constraints. When used as serving conditions or constraints such serving parameters are referred to simply as serving constraints or targeting criteria . For example in some systems an advertiser may be able to target the serving of its ad by specifying that it is only to be served on weekdays no lower than a certain position only to users in a certain location etc. As another example in some systems an advertiser may specify that its ad is to be served only if a page or search query includes certain keywords or phrases though as alluded to above the present invention obviates the need for an advertiser to enter targeting keywords. As yet another example in some systems an advertiser may specify that its ad is to be served only if a document being served includes certain topics or concepts or falls under a particular cluster or clusters or some other classification or classifications.

 Ad information may include any combination of ad features ad serving constraints information derivable from ad features or ad serving constraints referred to as ad derived information and or information related to the ad referred to as ad related information as well as an extension of such information e.g. information derived from ad related information .

A document is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine readable and machine storable work product. A document may be a file a combination of files one or more files with embedded links to other files etc. the files may be of any type such as text audio image video etc. Parts of a document to be rendered to an end user can be thought of as content of the document. A document may include structured data containing both content words pictures etc. and some indication of the meaning of that content for example e mail fields and associated data HTML tags and associated data etc. Ad spots in the document may be defined by embedded information or instructions. In the context of the Internet a common document is a Web page. Web pages often include content and may include embedded information such as meta information hyperlinks etc. and or embedded instructions such as Javascript etc. . In many cases a document has a unique addressable storage location and can therefore be uniquely identified by this addressable location. A universal resource locator URL is a unique address used to access information on the Internet.

 Document information may include any information included in the document information derivable from information included in the document referred to as document derived information and or information related to the document referred to as document related information as well as an extensions of such information e.g. information derived from related information . An example of document derived information is a classification based on textual content of a document. Examples of document related information include document information from other documents with links to the instant document as well as document information from other documents to which the instant document links.

Content from a document may be rendered on a content rendering application or device . Examples of content rendering applications include an Internet browser e.g. Explorer or Netscape a media player e.g. an MP3 player a Realnetworks streaming audio file player etc. a viewer e.g. an Abobe Acrobat pdf reader etc.

A content owner is a person or entity that has some property right in the content of a document. A content owner may be an author of the content. In addition or alternatively a content owner may have rights to reproduce the content rights to prepare derivative works of the content rights to display or perform the content publicly and or other proscribed rights in the content. Although a content server might be a content owner in the content of the documents it serves this is not necessary.

 User information may include user behavior information and or user profile information such as that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 452 791 entitled SERVING ADVERTISEMENTS USING USER REQUEST INFORMATION AND USER INFORMATION filed on the Jun. 2 2003 and listing Steve Lawrence Mehran Sahami and Amit Singhal as inventors. This application is incorporated herein by reference.

 E mail information may include any information included in an e mail also referred to as internal e mail information information derivable from information included in the e mail and or information related to the e mail as well as extensions of such information e.g. information derived from related information . An example of information derived from e mail information is information extracted or otherwise derived from search results returned in response to a search query composed of terms extracted from an e mail subject line. Examples of information related to e mail information include e mail information about one or more other e mails sent by the same sender of a given e mail or user information about an e mail recipient. Information derived from or related to e mail information may be referred to as external e mail information. 

As shown in the present invention teaches two features document region or topic to ad s association and topic relevant ad optimization using such associations . The first feature is described below with reference to while the second feature is described below with reference to . Still referring to for each of one or more document regions one or more topics are determined. For each of the one or more topics a set one or more topic relevant ads are determined. These associations between document regions topics and ads may be predetermined if the document content is relatively static. As indicated by at the user device client user behavior is monitored and user interest in a document region and therefore a topic is determined using such user behavior. These associations between user interests and topics may be determined in real time. Scores of topic relevant ads may be adjusted using determined user topic interest.

As used in this description the term document region is to be broadly construed as a part of a document. For example a document region may include a spatial portion e.g. a box a column an image etc. a section of a Web page a temporal e.g. audio and or video segment a link etc. The term topic is to be broadly construed as a concept subject or theme. The term user behavior is to include any observable or measurable user interaction with a document. Examples of user behavior include a cursor positioning b cursor dwell time c document item e.g. link control button etc. selection d user eye direction relative to the document e user facial expressions f user expressions and or g express user input e.g. increasing the volume of an audio segment etc. User behavior could be used to infer topic interest or disinterest. For example if an action was immediately reversed then it may be interpreted as evidence of disinterest. Suppose for example the user clicked on a hyperlink visited a Web page and immediately returned. This sequence of user actions might imply that the user was not interested in a topic or topics included in the Web page. As another example if an ad made available to the user was not selected while it was being rendered for a certain duration this might imply that the user was not interested in a topic or topics associated with the ad.

Initially the document may be rendered in association with an initial set of one or more ads e.g. before attempting to resolve any ambiguities in the user s present interest . However as stated above the present invention may be used to resolve ambiguities to determine a user s present topic interest such that ads relevant to the user s present topic interest may be served. In this regard user behavior monitoring and user interest determination operations may be used to i monitor user behavior e.g. with respect to the document and ii to determine the user s present interest e.g. to resolve ambiguities about which of a number of different topics the user is presently interested in using at least the observed user behavior. The ad interest score adjustment operations may use such determinations about the user s present topic interest to adjust ad interest scores of one or more ads in accordance with policies . Since as described above the document ad combination operations may use such scores in determining which ads to serve with the document adjusting the ad interest scores may lead to changes in the ads presented in association with the document . In this way as user topic interests are discerned using their behavior ads more relevant to a user s present topic interest may be presented to the user.

Certain user activities may be events that trigger further processing. Block For example if the user activity indicates a close event the method may be left. Node If the user activity is related to user interest in a certain topic user topic interest may be determined and or recorded. Block Then the score s of the ad s associated with the topic may be adjusted using at least the determined user topic interest. Block Then whether or not a different set of ads should be rendered in association with the document using at least the adjusted score s of the ad s and possibly previous ad scores may be determined in accordance with a policy. . If it was determined to update the ads Decision block a new set of one or more ads is rendered in association with the document Block and user activity monitoring is continued Block . If on the other hand it was not determined to update the ads Decision block user activity monitoring is continued Block .

Recall from block of that document regions are analyzed to determine a related topic. Topics may be determined from documents by analyzing their content. For example U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 413 536 and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 314 427 and 10 375 900 as mentioned in 4.2 described ways to determine one or more topics.

Document regions can be accepted. Alternatively or in addition the present invention may be used to determine document regions. For example meta data and or structured data can define different document sections or regions each having different content. The different content of different sections may concern different topics the different topics being associated with different sets of one or more ads. Accordingly if user interest in a particular section of the document is inferred e.g. by the user hovering a pointer cursor over the section centering the section on a display highlighting the section etc. interest scores for ads of the set of one or more ads associated with the topic of the particular section may be increased. A link such as a hyper text link may define a region. The linked document may concern a topic being associated with a set of one or more ads. Accordingly if user interest in the link is inferred e.g. by the user selecting it interest scores of the set of one or more ads associated with the topic of the linked document may be increased.

In the context of Web pages the HTML of the Web page being transferred may be modified so that user activity with respect to the Web page can be monitored. In one implementation of the present invention this is done by providing javascript code in the Web page that is provided to the user device client . In this way various user activities can be monitored and user interests can be determined using at least the monitored activities. For example if a pointer enters a certain HTML region then it may be inferred that the user is interested in the contents of the region.

Recall from blocks and of that user activity is monitored and user interest is determined and or recorded using at least the monitored activity.

Recall from block that score s of one or more ads may be adjusted using at least the user interest. For example if the region ad table has an association between the region and an ad then the ad interest of the ad is adjusted. An ad interest score may be adjusted by various amounts corresponding to various degrees of user interest e.g. from casual interest to intense interest and various confidence levels associated with user interest e.g. from inferred interest to express interest . For example if a cursor hovers over a given region concerning a given topic casual interest inferred ad interest scores of one or more ads associated with this topic may be incremented by a first amount e.g. 1 unit . If the user selects a link to a document concerning a topic express interest ad interest scores of one or more ads associated with the topic may be incremented by a second amount e.g. units . If the pointer cursor stays within a given region for a considerable length of time interest inferred then the interest scores of corresponding ads may be incremented again e.g. by 3 units . If a section of text is blocked and copied strong express interest then the interest scores of corresponding ads may be incremented e.g. by 10 units .

Recall from blocks and that a new set of ads may be rendered or the same or different ads may be rendered with different enhanced features and or in a different order in association with the document using the adjusted ad scores and a policy. In one example the policy may be that if the ad interest scores of the ads deviate significantly from the predicted interest scores of the ads then the rendering of the ads is changed to reflect the user s interest. For example an old ad may be replaced with a new one.

A number of alternatives exist for monitoring user activity and changing the rendering of ads. For example software on the client device or an extension to the browser can record activity and change a display through the supported programming interface. In the one implementation of the present invention the monitoring of usage and redrawing of the ads is done by Javascript in the client HTML inserted specifically for ad optimization before the Web page was sent to the client device. In one implementation of the present invention the ad interest scores known to the Javascript code are additionally saved in a cookie which is a persistent means of storage on the client computer. This allows the e.g. ad and or topic interest scores to be recovered after a user browses over a hyperlink to a target document and returns to the original page.

In a variant of the above scheme the region ad table which stores a mapping between regions of the document and ads is replaced with a region topic table which stores a mapping between regions of the Web page and topics. Correspondingly a topic interest table of scores is maintained. A second table records the mapping between topics and ads e.g. on a per page basis . A database join allows the ad interest table to be recovered from these ad topic and topic interest tables whenever it is needed. The advantage of this scheme is that the topic interest table is more general than the ad interest table and can apply to many documents. Thus interest scores gathered on one document e.g. one search results page can be used to show ads on a subsequent document where ads for the same topics exist. This increases the scope and usefulness of the present invention. Generally any technique that determines topic relevant ads to render or enhance using user topic interest which may be determined using user behavior may be used.

In another variant all user behavior tracking and ad insertion can be done by software residing on the client device e.g. the Google Toolbar .

Ad scores may be used instead of ad interest scores. Such scores may reflect a user topic interest but may also reflect one of more of a ad price information b ad performance information c targeting criteria match information and d advertiser quality information.

Although the foregoing exemplary embodiments described a topic that a user has a present interest in the present invention is also applicable to subtopics. For example recall that the term jaguar can have three interpretations automobile animal an football team and that a set of ads can be associated with each corresponding topic. Alternatively or in addition there can be subtopics of the same topic that are worth distinguishing for the purpose of targeting ads. For example for the topic flowers there can be the subtopics buying flowers growing flowers and arranging flowers. There can be different sets of one or more ads associated with one or more of these subtopics.

Further a given topic might be divided based on degrees of expertise or sophistication. For example a user interested in the topic volcano could be interested in a basic introduction to volcanoes a novice a technical understanding of volcanoes an expert or be interested in a tourism information regarding volcanoes some sophistication . Different sets of one or more ads can be associated with the different levels of user expertise in a give topic. Using evidence of sophistication determined using user actions for example ads targeted for novices average sophistication or experts e.g. children tourists scientists may be served and rendered.

The one or more processors may execute machine executable instructions e.g. C or C running on the Solaris operating system available from Sun Microsystems Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. or the Linux operating system widely available from a number of vendors such as Red Hat Inc. of Durham N.C. to effect one or more aspects of the present invention. At least a portion of the machine executable instructions may be stored temporarily or more permanently on the one or more storage devices and or may be received from an external source via one or more input interface units .

In one embodiment the machine may be one or more conventional personal computers. In this case the processing units may be one or more microprocessors. The bus may include a system bus. The storage devices may include system memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . The storage devices may also include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a e.g. removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magneto optical disk such as a compact disk or other magneto optical media.

A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device e.g. a mouse for example. Other input devices such as a microphone a joystick a game pad a satellite dish a scanner or the like may also or alternatively be included. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit s through an appropriate interface coupled to the system bus . The output devices may include a monitor or other type of display device which may also be connected to the system bus via an appropriate interface. In addition to or instead of the monitor the personal computer may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers for example.

Operations of an ad server such as the region topic to ad s association operations and or user device client operations such as the ad optimization and operations may be performed by and the various information may be stored on one or more machines . The user device client search engine content server and or e mail server may also be one or more machines .

In this example one or more ads associated with topic might originally be rendered in association with the document . If a user were to follow the link interest scores of one or more ads associated with topic could be increased. In this case upon returning back to document A from document B one or more ads associated with topic might now be rendered in association with the document . Similarly if a user were to follow the link interest scores of one or more ads associated with topic could be increased. In this case upon returning back to document A from document C one or more ads associated with topic might now be rendered in association with the document . Finally if a user were to follow the link interest scores of the one or more ads already associated with topic could be increased further increasing an interest score differential between theses ad s and ad s associated with other topics.

Referring to when the optimized Web page is loaded into the client device an initial ad or arrangement of ads is presented based on ad interest scores. Then client device user activity is monitored and interest in regions that suggest a certain topic and therefore a certain set of one or more ads is recorded. In the example illustrated in the user selects e.g. clicks on search result eight and is taken to that page by a browser for example. Since the eighth search result is associated with a Web page that has a topic concerning the NFL football team the interest scores of one or more ads of a third set are incremented. If the user then returns back to the search results Web page one or more ads from the third set have replaced the initial set of one or more ads assuming that their incremented scores are greater than those of the ads originally presented .

Naturally a position ranking or some enhanced feature of the ads may be changed based on the updated ad interest scores. For example as shown in in the search results Web page initially an ad from a first set associated with a first topic is displayed above an ad from a third set associated with the third topic as shown by . After the ad interest scores of the one or more ads of the third set are increased because the user selected the link to the eighth page when the user returns to the search results Web page the ad form the third set associated with the third topic is displayed above the ad from the first set associated with the first topic as shown by assuming that their incremented scores are greater than those of the ads originally presented .

In other implementations the application of enhanced ad features may be determined using at least the ad interest score.

As can be appreciated from the foregoing disclosure the present invention can be used to resolve ambiguities with respect to a user topic interest so that useful topic relevant ads may be presented to the user.

