---

title: Restless leg syndrome treatment
abstract: The present invention describes a method of treating restless leg syndrome by eliminating venous reflux in an underlying vein. The malfunctioning vein can be removed or ablated by inserting a catheter into the vein that transmits sufficient energy to coagulate or ablate the lining of the vein causing it to permanently close, eliminating the source of venous reflux and the symptom of restless leg syndrome.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07644715&OS=07644715&RS=07644715
owner: CoolTouch, Incorporated
number: 07644715
owner_city: Roseville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070914
---
This Application is related to pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 825 687 filed Sep. 14 2006 entitled RESTLESS LEG SYNDROME TREATMENT. This application is also a continuation in part of and claims benefits of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 982 504 filed on Nov. 4 2004 and titled ENDOVENOUS CLOSURE OF VARICOSE VEINS WITH MID INFRARED LASER which application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of International Application Number PCT US2003 035178 filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty on Oct. 30 2003 titled ENDOVENOUS CLOSURE OF VARICOSE VEINS WITH MID INFRARED LASER which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 422 566 filed Oct. 31 2002 entitled ENDOVENOUS CLOSURE OF VARICOSE VEINS WITH MID INFRARED LASER each of which applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and claims any and all benefits to which it is entitled therefrom. This Application is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 699 212 filed Oct. 30 2003 entitled ENDOVENOUS CLOSURE OF VARICOSE VEINS WITH MID INFRARED LASER which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 422 566 filed Oct. 31 2002 entitled ENDO VENOUS CLOSURE OF VARICOSE VEINS WITH MID INFRARED LASER each of which applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to methods and apparatus for treating restless leg syndrome RLS . Specifically the method includes eliminating venous reflux in a vein in the leg by closing it with energy derived from a radio frequency generator using a foam sclerosant and using an electrical resistance circuit or a laser.

RLS is a poorly understood disorder in which patients experience compelling urges to move the legs usually accompanied by intense unpleasant sensations in their legs. RLS affects 5 15 of the American and European populations. RLS affects the general population with a mean age at onset of 27.2 years. Onset of RLS is often before age 20 in 38.3 of patients. Women are twice as likely to be affected. The earliest description of an RLS case was by English physician and anatomist Sir Thomas Willis in 1672. RLS lingered in anonymity until 1944 when Swedish neurologist Karl Ekbom first described the salient features. In 1945 he coined the phrase restless legs . The addition of the word syndrome designates this malady as a condition defined by clinical symptoms rather than by any specific pathological process.

Most patients find they cannot describe the nature of their sensations. It is frequently unrecognized or misdiagnosed and therefore widely undertreated. Dr. Ekbom felt that this is evidently due to the fact that the sensations do not resemble any known phenomenon that can be used as a comparison. They are variably described as heebie jeebies antsy Jimmy legs or as creeping crawling pulling drawing boring wormy etc. The sensations are painful in about 30 of patients. Patients experience intense unpleasant sensations deep in the legs that are accompanied by an irresistible urge to move the affected limbs. The sensations are usually located in the calf area but may be felt anywhere from the ankles to the thighs. The arms are rarely involved.

There is a wide variation in severity with some patients experiencing only occasional mild symptoms while others struggle with disabling episodes on a nightly basis. Symptoms of RLS are worse in the evening and during periods of relaxation or decreased activity especially while lying down or reclining. Patients are often completely asymptomatic in the morning. The reason for this is unknown. The desire to relieve the symptoms can lead to a compulsion involving excessive limb movements. The sensations and the compulsion to relieve them frequently become terribly distressing. As RLS symptoms are stronger at bedtime sleep onset insomnia is common. RLS sufferers often find they cannot sleep until the early morning hours. Patients with severe RLS experience nightly attacks that lead to chronic sleep deprivation with its accompanying psychological and cognitive deficits.

Investigators have made great strides in the understanding and treatment of RLS over the last two decades to the nightly relief of millions of victims. The etiology of RLS remains elusive however and a final common pathway has yet to be described. According to Dr M. J. Thorpy primary RLS may represent a heterogeneous group of disorders because no single pathophysiologic mechanism explains all the clinical features exhibited. 

There are no classic physical findings no conclusive blood assays and no standard radiological or sleep studies to diagnose RLS. Because there is no known biomarker the diagnosis of RLS can only be made based on clinical history. In an attempt to more clearly define RLS the IRLSSG developed RLS diagnostic criteria in 1995. An IRLSSG consensus panel at the National Institutes of Health NIH modified these criteria to their present form in 2003. These four criteria are necessary and sufficient for the diagnosis of RLS. They include 1 Urges to move the limbs with or without unpleasant sensations 2 worsening of symptoms at rest 3 improvement of symptoms with movement and 4 worsening of symptoms at night. The IRLS questionnaire was developed by the IRLSSG and validated in 2003 as a consistent reliable tool to objectively measure RLS severity.

RLS is divided into primary idiopathic and secondary causes. Primary RLS is felt to be the most common form and is suspected to be a sensorimotor abnormality associated with central nervous system dysfunction involving abnormal brain iron metabolism and irregularity of central dopaminergic neurotransmitter pathways. Primary RLS likely represents a heterogenous group because no single pathophysiologic mechanism explains all the clinical features exhibited. Secondary RLS occurs in such disparate conditions as back pain iron deficiency renal failure pregnancy neuropathy and venous disease. Various medications are known to precipitate RLS attacks. The fact that RLS is a mixed bag diagnosis has complicated research confounded investigators and frustrated clinicians in that various medications work in only a percentage of affected patients. Current treatment therefore focuses on nightly management of symptoms rather than on cure.

In 1995 Dr. A. H. Kanter s groundbreaking study suggested that sclerotherapy in patients with varicose veins and RLS is 98 effective in initial relief of RLS. This is the first article to describe operative treatment of RLS. Dr Kanter concluded that all RLS patients with varicose veins should be considered for phlebological evaluation and possible treatment before being consigned to chronic drug therapy.

Secondary RLS is known to occur in and is secondary to such disparate conditions as iron deficiency renal failure pregnancy neuropathy and venous insufficiency. Various medications are known to exacerbate existing RLS even precipitate RLS and other causes are likely.

Because RLS is a mixed bag diagnosis research investigators have been confounded when treatments only work on a portion of the test subjects. Treatment of the secondary causes of RLS can frequently cure patients of this distressing malady. Because venous insufficiency is a secondary cause treatment of this cause may cure the patient of RLS.

Venous insufficiency is quite common affecting 10 15 of adult men and 20 25 of adult women. Duplex ultrasound studies reveal that saphenous vein reflux is the most common form of venous insufficiency and is the underlying condition in most patients suffering with varicose veins. Sclerotherapy in patients with varicose veins and RLS has been shown to be 98 effective in initial relief of RLS with recurrence rate of 8 and 28 at one and two years respectively. Sclerotherapy is not a very effective treatment for varicose veins. While effective for tiny surface veins the injection of liquid sclerosant into the large veins responsible for venous insufficiency has a low success rate. This method requires multiple injections can be very painful and the veins often reopen in a few years requiring continual treatments. Most RLS patients are not willing to undergo this therapy. Although prior art consists of drug therapy and occasionally the use of compression stockings surgery in the form of vein stripping has also not been considered a treatment for this condition because of the significant morbidity associated with the procedure. This invention discloses the use of a new minimally invasive treatment for venous insufficiency that is benign enough to be considered as a treatment and a cure for RLS with a significantly improved benefit to cost ratio.

Varicose veins have been treated in a similar manner except that the clinical symptoms of varicose veins are much more evident. Bulging veins ulcers pain and leg tiredness are all symptoms of varicose vein disease. This invention also relates to otherwise healthy legs that do not necessarily show these symptoms but rather an early stage of venous disease that causes RLS without bulging and painful varicose veins.

This connection between venous insufficiency and restless leg syndrome has been noted in the literature but the root cause of the disease and the connections to the venous system is not obvious. It was only through anecdotal comments by patients who had restless leg syndrome and were also successfully treated for varicose veins that the connection became clear. The restless leg symptoms disappeared after treatment for varicose Veins. This invention takes this one step farther and claims that restless legs can be successfully treated even without the symptoms of varicose veins by eliminating venous reflux in a segment adjacent to the twitching or skin movement.

This invention describes a method to cure Restless Legs Syndrome RLS in a percentage of patients without the expense and pain associated with surgery and with far better short and long term results than the use of liquid sclerotherapy. This new method promises to become the treatment of choice to enable RLS patients to be taken off of debilitating and expensive drug therapy that only treats the symptoms of RLS.

It is an advantage of the present invention to provide a method of treating restless leg syndrome in which the method comprises the step of eliminating reflux from an underlying vein. It is a further advantage of the present invention to provide said method in which the step of eliminating reflux from an underlying vein comprises closing an underlying leg vein with energy to eliminate venous reflux. In an embodiment of the present invention the energy is of the type selected from the group consisting of infrared ultraviolet visible radio frequency ultrasound and laser. In an embodiment of the present invention the step of eliminating reflux from an underlying vein comprises using an endovenous catheter to deliver energy to a segment of incompetent vein. In an embodiment of the present invention step of eliminating reflux from an underlying vein comprises uses foam sclerotherapy.

It is an advantage of the present invention to provide a method of treating restless leg syndrome wherein the step of using laser energy to eliminate reflux in a short segment of vein around the symptomatic region.

It is yet another advantage of the present invention to provide a method of treating restless leg syndrome comprising the step of eliminating venous reflux in an underlying vein in the absence of vein varicosities ulcers or other visible symptoms.

It is yet another advantage of the present invention to provide an endovenous method of treating restless leg syndrome comprising the step of using a laser having a wavelength between about 1.2 and about 2.7 um to heat and shrink collagen in a vessel wall and in which the step of delivering the laser energy with a fiber optic laser delivery device. An embodiment of the invention comprises the steps of inserting a fiber optic laser delivery device into the vein and using a pullback device to retract the fiber optic laser delivery device through the vein at a rate of between about 0.1 mm sec and about 10.0 mm sec while simultaneously delivering laser energy therefrom. In an embodiment of the invention the fiber optic laser delivery device is retracted at a rate of between about 0.5 mm sec and about 5.0 mm sec. In another embodiment of the invention the pullback device is left off initially to let heat build up at the start therefore enabling a better closure of the vessel. It is an advantage to remove blood from the vein prior to treatment with laser energy. It is yet a further advantage to introduce the fiber optic laser delivery device to the vein through an introducer catheter. In an embodiment of the present invention a pulsed laser is used the pulse width between 1 and 5000 microseconds.

Further details objects and advantages of the present invention will be come apparent through the following descriptions and will be included and incorporated herein.

As described above the tissue may be heated or treated with any operative heating device. These include but are not limited to the followings a laser diode or other laser source electrical current radiofrequency waves microwaves ultrasound or other source of electromagnetic energy which penetrates into regions of tissue by conduction or convection as with bubble generation in blood contact device active or passive heating means etc. thus preferentially heating a region of tissue without excessive or otherwise undesirable heating of or effect on surrounding tissue.

Examination of veins and diagnosis of RLS is taught by Allen R P Abetz L Washburn T Early C J. THE IMPACT OF RESTLESS LEGS SYNDROME RLS ON SLEEP AND COGNITIVE FUNCTION. Eur J Neurol. 2002 9 suppl2 50 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety without limitations.

Use of ultrasound for intravenous catheter or other structure visualization catheter positioning and treatment device structure and function is further taught by U.S. Pat. No. 6 024 703 filed May 7 1997 entitled ULTRASOUND DEVICE FOR AXIAL RANGING which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety without limitations.

Percutaneous access of vessels methods device structure and function is further taught by pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 699 212 filed Oct. 30 2003 entitled ENDOVENOUS CLOSURE OF VARICOSE VEINS WITH MID INFRARED LASER which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety without limitations.

Automatic motorized or other equivalent pull back method device structure and function is further taught by pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 699 212 filed Oct. 30 2003 entitled ENDOVENOUS CLOSURE OF VARICOSE VEINS WITH MID INFRARED LASER which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety without limitations.

The following is a description of a study undertaken with the financial support of the American College of Phlebology BSN JOBST Phlebology 2006 Research Grant.

Our results were presented at the 20th Annual Congress of the American College of Phlebology at Sawgrass Marriott Resort and Beach Club Ponte Vedra Beach Fla. Nov. 9 12 2006.

Venous disease was proposed as a cause of Restless Legs Syndrome RLS by Dr. Karl A. Ekbom in 1944 but has since remained largely unexplored. This study examines the effect of Endovenous Laser Ablation ELA in patients with concurrent RLS and duplex proven Superficial Venous Insufficiency SVI The aim of this study is to determine what effect ELA has in patients with RLS and SVI.

Thirty five patients with moderate to very severe RLS as defined by the 2003 NIH RLS criteria and duplex proven SVI completed an International RLS rating scale questionnaire IRLS and underwent standard duplex examination to objectively measure the baseline severity of their conditions. They were separated into non operative and operative cohorts. The operative cohort underwent ELA of refluxing superficial axial veins using the CoolTouch CTEV 1320 nm laser and ultrasound guided sclerotherapy of the associated varicose veins with foamed sodium tetradecyl sulfate STS . All patients then completed a follow up IRLS questionnaire. Baseline and follow up IRLS scores were compared.

Operative correction of the SVI decreased the mean IRLS score by 21.4 points from 26.9 to 5.5 corresponding to an average 80 improvement in symptoms. Eighty nine percent of patients enjoyed a decrease in their score of 15 points. Fifty three percent of patients had a follow up score of 5 indicating their symptoms had been largely alleviated and 31 had a follow up score of zero indicating complete relief of RLS symptoms.

ELA of refluxing axial veins with the CTEV 1320 nm laser and foamed STS sclerotherapy of associated varicosities alleviates RLS symptoms in patients with SVI and moderate to very severe RLS. Additionally SVI should be ruled out in all patients with RLS before initiation or continuation of drug therapy.

We screened 89 patients with complaints of restlessness in their legs. The diagnosis of RLS was determined using the 2003 NIH criteria. All patients who met the criteria for RLS were interviewed to confirm the diagnosis of RLS and to exclude conditions that mimic RLS such as positional discomfort neuropathy night cramps etc. . They then completed an initial IRLS questionnaire to determine the baseline severity of their disease. Those patients with an IRLS score of 15 or greater corresponding with moderate to very severe RLS underwent a screening duplex ultrasound. Patients found to have greater than 500 milliseconds of reflux in the great saphenous vein GSV underwent a complete duplex evaluation of the deep superficial and perforator systems. All reflux was mapped for appropriate treatment. Thirty five patients met the criteria and were accepted into the study.

Sixteen patients were assigned to the non operative cohort 19 to the operative cohort. In the non operative cohort 6.3 of patients were male and 93.7 were female. The mean age was 58.8 and the average weight 180.2 pounds. In the operative cohort 31.6 of patients were male and 68.4 were female. The mean age was 49.4 and the average weight was 202.5 pounds. One patient withdrew from each cohort for unrelated medical reasons.

Most RLS patients take medication nightly in order to get some sleep. We felt it important for this study to be applicable to the broader population. We therefore did not exclude patients who were taking RLS medications. In order to stabilize RLS medication as a variable we did ask patients not to add any or discontinue medications known to affect RLS symptoms during the study period.

Patients were assigned to either the non operative or operative cohort. Non operative patients completed a follow up questionnaire six weeks after the initial questionnaire. This yielded objective measurements of the severity of the baseline and final RLS symptoms in the non operative cohort.

The operative patients underwent ELA of all refluxing axial veins using the Cool Touch 1320 nm laser at settings of 50 Hz and 7 Watts. The pullback device was set on 0.5 mm sec for the first 10 cm then 1.0 mm sec for the remainder of the vein. These laser settings applied 140 Joules cm to the first 10 cm of vein and 70 Joules cm to the remainder of the vein this rather high fluence was utilized to ensure 100 ablation of all treated veins . Varicose veins and refluxing perforator veins were treated with ultrasound guided sclerotherapy using 1.0 STS foam. A 6 inch ACE wrap was applied immediately post operatively and continued for 48 hours then replaced with 20 30 mm hg compression stockings for two weeks. Compression was then removed. Operative patients underwent a post operative duplex examination 2 3 days after the procedure and again six weeks later. They completed a final IRLS questionnaire at the 6 week follow up appointment. The baseline and final IRLS scores of both groups were then compared.

The 35 patients who met the inclusion criteria were enrolled into this prospective randomized unblinded parallel two group pre post test study. This study design involved outcome variables measured on binomial and continuous scales. For the continuous outcome variables i.e. IRLS questionnaire one way analysis of variance with two distinct levels of the intervention was performed. Moreover since unequal sample sizes were anticipated and observations were repeated over time Bonferroni procedures were appropriate to control for experimentwise multi comparison error. Matched pairs analysis was used to test the null hypothesis of zero change from IRLS baseline score.

When analyzing binomial variables i.e. RLS Symptoms Alleviated yes or no Chi square and likelihood ratio statistics were computed to test the null hypothesis of no association between the intervention groups and the response variable s . In addition since single group pre and post test comparisons were performed and the assumption of independent samples was not met McNemar s test for matched pairs was appropriate. Exact tests were used and exact probabilities were computed where appropriate.

All statistical analysis activities were performed using SAS Statistical Software Version 9.1.3 SAS Institute Inc. North Carolina USA. The procedures used are PROC ANOVA PROC GLM and PROC FREQ.

Duplex evaluation performed 6 weeks postoperatively revealed that 100 of the treated veins were successfully ablated. Transient postoperative discomfort in the region of the treated veins was frequently reported. Most patients required only PRN Ibuprofen foregoing the prescribed hydrocodone. All patients had mild bruising at the access sites. There were no major side effects or complications.

When comparing mean baseline IRLS scores for the non operative and operative cohorts 26.8 vs. 26.9 respectively the difference was not found to be statistically significant p 0.971 . Consequently one could assume homogeneity in RLS symptoms and severity across treatment groups prior to intervention. At the final evaluation the mean IRLS score in the non operative cohort was actually found to be slightly elevated 28.4 in contrast to their baseline mean score. The mean IRLS score in the operative cohort decreased by 21.4 points to 5.5. This represents a drop in symptom severity of 80 . The matched pairs analysis was statistically significant p

Eighty nine percent of operative patients enjoyed a decrease in their IRLS score of 15 points or more. Seventy nine percent of patients improved to mild disease final score 10 . Ninety five percent of patients improved to mild or moderate disease final score 20 . Fifty three percent of patients had a final score 5 indicating their RLS symptoms had been largely alleviated. Thirty one percent of patients had a final score of zero indicating complete relief of RLS symptoms.

In Dr. K. A. Ekbom s original 1944 article he presented 8 patients with what he called asthenia crurum paraesthetica irritable legs . He described the symptoms RLS and said that in most patients objective signs were lacking. One 12.5 of these patients however was noted to have varicose veins. Dr. Ekbom went on to say that all patients had palpable dorsalis pedis pulses yet he concluded It is possible that the condition is due to a functional vascular disorder. He suspected venous congestion and an accumulation of metabolites to be a cause of RLS. Our study demonstrates that treating the underlying venous disease can relieve the RLS symptoms.

Venous insufficiency is an impedance of venous flow back to the heart. It is usually caused by venous reflux secondary to valvular failure and can occur in the deep superficial or perforator veins. Venous insufficiency results in high venous pressures that are transmitted to tributary veins venules capillaries and interstitial tissues drained by the diseased vein. It affects 10 15 of men and 20 25 of women. SVI is much more common than deep venous insufficiency.

According to the Starling concept most of the fluid forced out of the capillary bed at the arterial end is normally returned into the lumen at the venous end. In tissues affected by venous hypertension this delicate balance is disrupted. The high hydrostatic pressure in the venules and capillaries causes a net increase in the fluid remaining in the interstitial space. This increased interstitial fluid volume overwhelms the lymphatic capacity resulting in edema formation. As long as the leg is dependant the interstitial fluid continues to accumulate until the tissue pressure rises to a point at which the Starling equilibrium is restored. Considerable edema can accumulate before this point of equilibrium is reached. Upon elevation of the leg such as when the patient is lying down or reclining the venous pressures diminish and the lymphatics can drain the engorged interstitium.

The circadian ebb and flow of edema fluid seen in venous insufficiency closely parallels the circadian timing of RLS symptoms. This is more than mere coincidence. We know that the daily accumulation of soft tissue edema creates unpleasant sensations in the legs such as heaviness fullness achiness etc. The nightly receding of that edema fluid somehow causes the indescribable sensations that typically plague RLS patients. This would explain why the typical RLS symptoms occur when the patient is reclining and at night as the elevation mobilizes edema from the legs and why symptoms seem to wane in the early morning hours the edema has largely resolved by that time. The restless leg movement is a subconscious activation of the musculovenous pump stretching of afflicted muscles and tendons or a distractor to mask the tormenting sensations.

This discovery is supported by the fact that 26 of women are affected by RLS during their pregnancy. Pregnancy has been shown to exacerbate both RLS and edema independently. Strong correlation is noted with the third trimester of pregnancy when the pregnancy associated edema is at its peak and tends to disappear with delivery when the pregnancy associated edema has receded .

Similar findings are seen in hemodialysis patients. RLS affects 20 80 of this population. Despite extensive research of various clinical and biochemical parameters the cause of RLS in this population remains unknown. It has been shown that increasing dialysis from 3 days a week to 5 days a week but not changing total number of hours per week relieves the RLS symptoms. RLS symptoms disappear in hemodialysis patients who receive a kidney transplant. Frequent dialysis dampens and renal transplant eliminates the huge volume swings normally seen in hemodialysis patients thus impacting their RLS symptoms.

Primary RLS is generally felt to be a condition in which an abnormal nervous system is reacting inappropriately to relatively normal legs. In RLS patients with venous disease it appears that RLS is due to a relatively normal nervous system reacting appropriately to abnormal legs.

We employed the NIH criteria to make the diagnosis of RLS and the IRLS questionnaire to grade the severity of symptoms. These tools are widely utilized in current RLS research. They made possible accurate comparisons between operative and control groups. This allowed us to gather statistically significant results despite our small sample size.

Bias was introduced in this study by including only those RLS patients with duplex proven SVI. All RLS patients with normal venous function were therefore excluded. Bias was also introduced in the manner in which the patients were assigned to operative vs. nonoperative cohorts. Medicare and third party insurance carriers require a three to six month trial of conservative non operative measures . Because of time constraints patients who had not met these criteria before presenting to our vein center were automatically placed in the non operative cohort. Patients who had met these mandates were placed in the operative cohort. Further study will explore the connections between RLS venous insufficiency and lower extremity edema.

Our results demonstrate that ELA of refluxing axial veins and sclerotherapy of associated varicosities alleviates or relieves RLS symptoms in patients with moderate to very severe RLS and SVI. All RLS patients should be properly evaluated for venous insufficiency by a technician familiar with techniques to detect venous reflux before initiation or continuation of drug therapy. Any RLS patient with venous insufficiency should be referred for evaluation and treatment by a phlebologist. Following these methods and procedures these patients can escape the nightly torment of chronic RLS.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention one methods and materials are now described. All publications and patent documents referenced in the present invention are incorporated herein by reference.

While the principles of the invention have been made clear in illustrative embodiments there will be immediately obvious to those skilled in the art many modifications of structure arrangement proportions the elements materials and components used in the practice of the invention and otherwise which are particularly adapted to specific environments and operative requirements without departing from those principles. The appended claims are intended to cover and embrace any and all such modifications with the limits only of the true purview spirit and scope of the invention.

