---

title: Method and apparatus to establish a communication connection
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to a mobile computing device having a communication management module. The communication management module receives connection information from a destination device, the connection information representing at least one communication mode accepted by the destination device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641661&OS=09641661&RS=09641661
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09641661
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. For example a mobile computing device may support cellular communication over cellular network such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network as well as Evolution Data Optimized EVDO data communication over a wireless radio channel. A design consideration for mobile computing devices having such robust functionality however is establishing communication connections with other computing devices having equally robust functionality. Demands for establishing communication connections with other computing devices quickly and successfully are important considerations for mobile computing devices. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to establish communication connections.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to a method and apparatus to establish a communication connection. In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may comprise a communication management module to receive connection information from a destination device. The connection information may comprise at least one communication mode accepted by the destination device with each communication mode having a connection priority information indicator representing priority levels for various communication modes accepted by the destination device. The priority levels may be determined using the connection information. In this manner a mobile computing device may be able to determine a priority level for each available communication mode to aid a user in selecting a communication mode. Alternatively or additionally the mobile computing device may be arranged to automatically select a communication mode in accordance with a user defined or default set of preferences or rules such as a communication mode with a highest likelihood of establishing a successful communication connection. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Current solutions require a user to manually attempt to initiate communication with a destination device by attempting each available communication mode for a particular destination device one at a time. For example a particular destination device may be capable of communicating through use of a cellular telephone number instant messaging address or an email address. Using current solutions a user attempting to establish communication with this destination device would be required to try each of these communication modes one at a time until a communication connection is established. Arranging communication modes according to connection priority information to allow a manual selection of a high priority communication mode or automatically selecting a high priority communication mode would simplify this process and reduce inefficiencies associated with current solutions. As the number of computing devices and the number of communication modes accepted by computing devices continues to increase the difficulty in successfully establishing a communication connection with a desired destination device will also continue to increase. Therefore various embodiments are directed to techniques to establish communication connections.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the mobile computing device may include an applications processor and a radio processor with the processors connected or coupled by a signal line . The mobile computing device may further include a memory unit . The memory unit may store or implement among other software modules a communication management module . The mobile computing device may also include a display . The applications processor the radio processor the memory and the display may all be coupled to a portable or self contained power supply such as a battery . It may be appreciated that the illustrated embodiment of the mobile computing device as shown in includes a limited number of elements for purposes of clarity and not limitation. A more detailed block diagram for the mobile computing device may be described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide mobile packet data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering mobile packet data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Optimized EVDO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EVDV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

The mobile computing device may comprise or implement a communication management module . Communication management module may comprise for example hardware and or software such as communication management control logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host or applications processor . The logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In one or more embodiments the communication management module may be implemented as one or more communication management application programming interface API commands on the applications processor . In some cases however the communication management module may be implemented or directly coupled to the radio processor . This may be advantageous for example when the mobile computing device utilizes only a single processor. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

When enabled the communication management module may be arranged to receive connection information from a destination device. In various embodiments the destination device may comprise a second mobile computing device or any other device capable of establishing a communication connection with mobile computing device . The connection information received from the destination device may comprise at least one communication mode accepted by the destination device. In various embodiments the communication modes accepted by the destination device may include a cellular radiotelephone connection voice connection data connection email connection instant message IM connection chat connection group chat connection short message service SMS connection multimedia message service MMS connection data connection personal area network PAN connection local area network LAN connection metropolitan area network MAN connection or wide area network WAN connection.

In various embodiments the communication management module displays the at least one communication mode on a display of the mobile computing device . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

In various embodiments the communication management module displays multiple communication modes on a display of the mobile computing device . Each communication mode displayed on the display may have a connection priority information indicator representing a priority level for the communication mode. Priority levels may refer to a determined level of acceptance of a communication mode determined using the connection information received from the destination device. The mobile computing device may for example receive connection information from the destination device indicating that a cellular radiotelephone connection would likely be accepted a SMS connection may or may not be accepted and an email connection would not be accepted at a given time. In this example the cellular radio telephone connection mode would be assigned a higher priority level than the SMS connection mode and the SMS connection mode would be assigned a higher priority level than the email connection mode. The priority levels may be set or programmed by a user. The priority levels may also be set or programmed automatically by the communication management module in accordance with a number or preferences rules or heuristics.

In various embodiments the connection information used to determine the level of acceptance of a communication mode may include the location of the destination device determined using GPS or cellular triangulation the time zone of the destination device the status of the ringer switch on the destination device existing connections between the destination device and peripherals such as a personal computer or a Bluetooth headset various channel characteristics such as received signal strength indication RSSI available wireless resources e.g. GSM system GPRS system etc. calendar information of the destination device or other factors. For example if the calendar information of the destination device indicates that the user of the destination device is currently in a meeting this information may be included in the communication information and may indicate that the only currently acceptable communication mode is an email connection. The communication information may indicate that the destination device is currently connected to a Bluetooth headset. This information may indicate that the communication mode most likely to be accepted by the destination device is a cellular connection because the user of the destination device may be in her car. The communication information may indicate that the destination device is currently located at the office of the user based on the GPS location of the destination device. This information may indicate that the communication mode most likely to be accepted by the destination device is an instant message connection because the user of the destination device may be in her office.

Connection priority information indicators may comprise any element or character capable of indicating the priority level of a communication mode. For example in various embodiments connection priority information indicators may comprise or be implemented as different colored sized bold or italicized shapes icons symbols numbers letters strikethroughs or underlines. For example a green dot may indicate that a communication mode will be accepted by a destination device a yellow dot may indicate that a communication mode may or may not be accepted by a destination device and a red dot may indicate the a communication mode will not be accepted by a destination device.

The at least one communication mode may be arranged on the display of mobile computing device according to connection priority information determined using the connection information. The connection priority information may represent priority levels for various communication modes accepted by the destination device. In various embodiments communication modes may be arranged in an order based on the connection information received from the destination device. In the example above the cellular radio telephone connection information may be arranged at the top of the display the SMS connection information may be listed below the cellular radio telephone connection information and the email connection information may be listed below the SMS connection information. In this manner a user of mobile computing device is able to quickly ascertain the priority levels of the various communication modes based on their arrangement on display .

In various embodiments the communication management module may initiate communication with the destination device in response to operator instructions selecting a communication mode. For example a user of mobile computing device may select a communication mode for a destination device using display . The type of communication connection established between mobile computing device and the destination device may vary based on the type of communication mode selecting by the user.

The communication management module may be arranged to automatically select a communication mode and initiate communication with the destination device based on the automatic selection. The automatic selection may be a selection of a communication mode with a highest priority determined from the connection priority information. For example a user of mobile computing device may select a destination device and indicate that a communication connection is desired with the destination device. Using the connection priority information communication management module may automatically select a communication mode with a highest priority and initiate communication with the destination device using the selected communication mode.

In various embodiments the communication management module may be configured to automatically attempt to initiate communication with the destination device using different communication modes until a communication connection is established. In this manner the mobile computing device will repeatedly attempt to initiate communication with the destination until a successful connection is established or until each available communication mode has been attempted. The order of attempted communication modes may be determined using the connection priority information. This approach allows a user to simply select a desired destination device and allow the mobile computing device to perform the necessary steps to find the appropriate communication mode that is currently being accepted at the destination device.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may include an application program operative to manage and display contact information. The contact information may include connection information having various communication modes accepted by the destination device. Each communication mode displayed in the application program may also have a connection priority information indicator representing a priority level for the communication mode. An example application program may be a contact management program such as Microsoft Outlook . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may include a graphic user interface GUI to display a GUI view with multiple communication modes on a display of the mobile computing device. In the GUI view each communication mode may be displayed with a connection priority information indicator representing a priority level for the communication mode.

In various embodiments a user of displayed contact information may initiate communication with a destination device using a communication mode not displayed by selecting the connection priority information indicator . For example if a user desires to initiate an email communication mode with Sarah Jones the user could select connection priority information indicator thereby revealing the remaining communication modes available for Sarah Jones including her email communication mode. As shown in displayed contact information all of the available communication modes are displayed for Bob Smith. In this example Bob Smith may be using a destination device that is not compatible with the various embodiments described herein or the mobile computing device may not be receiving connection information from the destination device. As a result the contact information for Bob Smith does not include a connection priority information indicator.

Although describe exemplary arrangements of displayed contact information it may be appreciated that any desired number of contacts communication modes and connection priority information indicators may be used. Furthermore show a limited number and type of connection priority information indicators by way of example. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Multiple communication modes may be arranged according to the connection priority information. For example as shown in the communication modes accepted by Sarah Jones are displayed in an order from the highest priority communication mode to the lowest priority communication mode.

Communication with the destination device may be initiated in response to operator instructions selecting a communication mode. For example a user may select the cellular radiotelephone number for Bob Smith as shown in from the list of available communication modes. In response the mobile computing device may initiate communication with the cellular radiotelephone of Bob Smith. Communication with the destination device may also be initiated based on an automatic selection of a communication mode. For example given the priority information for Sarah Jones shown in the mobile computing device may automatically attempt to initiate communication with the cellular radiotelephone of Sarah Jones.

A communication mode may be selected based on connection priority information representing priority levels for multiple communication modes accepted by the destination device. For example based on the priority information for Bob Smith shown in the cellular radiotelephone communication mode will be selected because it has the highest priority of the available communication modes.

Initiation of communication with the destination device may be attempted using different communication modes until a communication connection is established. The order of attempted communication modes may be determined using the connection priority information. For example as shown in Sarah Jones may be available for communication via a cellular radiotelephone communication mode SMS communication mode and email communication mode. Based on the priority information communication with the destination device would first be attempted using the cellular radiotelephone communication mode. If this first attempt was unsuccessful communication would be attempted using the SMS communication mode. These steps would continue in the defined order of priority until a successful communication connection with the destination device was established.

Contact information may be displayed on a display screen as shown in . The contact information may include connection information having various communication modes accepted by the destination device. For example as shown in contact information for Bob Smith is displayed indicating that Bob Smith may currently be available via a cellular radiotelephone communication mode instant messaging communication mode SMS communication mode or email communication mode. Each communication mode may have a connection priority information indicator representing a priority level for the communication mode. As shown in connection priority information indicators and represent different priority levels for the designated communication modes.

The mobile computing device may provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide mobile packet data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering mobile packet data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Optimized EVDO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EVDV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 96 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code and the like implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

It should be noted that the methods described herein do not have to be executed in the order described or in any particular order. Moreover various activities described with respect to the methods identified herein can be executed in serial or parallel fashion.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. It is to be understood that the above description has been made in an illustrative fashion and not a restrictive one. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Thus the scope of various embodiments includes any other applications in which the above compositions structures and methods are used.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. .sctn. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

