---

title: Efficient work flow system and method for processing taxpayer source documents
abstract: A method for processing taxpayer source documents is disclosed. The method may include receiving proforma data and an electronic image of a taxpayer source document, determining a type of tax statement for the taxpayer source document from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document and using the proforma data, a database, and business rules to verify the type of the tax statement for the electronic image of the taxpayer source document. This can be done by searching for an identification code within the electronic image of the taxpayer source document to determine whether the identification code matches the proforma data. The method can also include extracting data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document and determining if the extracted data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document has an error. Once the data is extracted, the method can also include creating an electronic document that includes the extracted data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07769646&OS=07769646&RS=07769646
owner: SurePrep, LLC
number: 07769646
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070620
---
The present invention relates generally to processing taxpayer source documents and more particularly to an efficient work flow system and method of processing taxpayer source documents by using Optical Character Recognition OCR proforma data databases and business rules.

Traditionally tax preparation was done by a single accountant. A taxpayer would give the accountant all of his or her source documents and let the accountant prepare the tax returns. The taxpayer however would usually have numerous source documents. For example the taxpayer may have documents such as W 2s Brokerage Statements 1099s K 1s etc. The accountant would then have to sift through and manually organize the taxpayer s source documents. The accountant would have to transfer all of the tax data from the taxpayer s source documents into the appropriate federal and state tax return forms such as 1040 1040 E Z etc.

With so many taxpayer source documents and different federal and state tax filing forms the accountant would spend a lot of time organizing transferring data and verifying the data. This manual process can be inefficient error prone and expensive since the accountant has to search for specific tax data to enter into a specific line in a specific tax filing document. Oftentimes the accountant will have to reuse the same tax data over and over again but has to reenter the tax data each time. Furthermore with such a large volume of tax data the potential for error increases especially when a single human being is involved. With federal and state penalties increasing for mistakes this could be disastrous for the taxpayer and the accountant. This problem is compounded when the taxpayer has to file taxes in multiple states and has multiple employers. From an accountant s perspective this large volume of tax data also presents problems because of potential staff shortages. Not every person is qualified to handle and analyze the large volume of tax data. Thus this restriction in qualified personnel can lead to staff shortages.

One potential solution is to convert the taxpayer source documents into an electronic form. However simply scanning the paper taxpayer source documents to be manually read as an electronic image such as a large JPEG is inadequate because the taxpayer source documents would still be unorganized and there is no verification of the tax data. Furthermore the tax data is not in any form that is easily accessible for automated processing. The accountant would only be able to view the data on his computer but would still have to manually transfer the tax data to the appropriate federal and state tax filing forms. Thus there is a need for an invention that better processes a user s taxpayer source documents.

The present invention is a method for processing and solving the problems above. The method can be implemented for example on a machine readable medium. If implemented using a machine readable medium the present invention can for example cause a machine such as a computer to perform certain functions. The machine readable medium for example may be a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a cache a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic disk storage media an optical storage media a flash memory device or any other device capable of storing information.

In an embodiment the method of processing a taxpayer source document comprises receiving proforma data and an electronic image of a taxpayer source document. Proforma data can be for example data from taxpayer source documents from previous years previous tax filing documents such e.g. Federal 1040 California 540 Illinois 1040 etc. or other various prior data e.g. 1099 INT 1099 DIV etc. .

The method also comprises determining a type of tax statement for the taxpayer source document from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document. The method also comprises using the proforma data to verify data on the taxpayer source document by searching for an identification code within the electronic image of the taxpayer source document to determine whether the identification code matches the proforma data.

The taxpayer source documents can be of various types of tax statements. For example the types of tax statements can include but are not limited to W 2s Brokerage Statements 1099 INT 1099 DIV K 1s TAX EXEMPT INTEREST TAX EXEMPT DIVIDEND SCH D Attachment SHORT TERM SCH D Attachment LONG TERM K 1 FORM 1065 K 1 FORM 1120S K 1 FORM 1041 FORM 1099 R IRA FORM 1099 R PENSION charity donation receipts etc. The electronic image can be for example in the following formats Microsoft Word PDF TIFF JPEG etc. The identification code can be for example an employer s name and or an employee s social security number for a W 2 form.

The method also comprises extracting data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document and determining if the extracted data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document has an error. The data can be for example tax data such as first name and last name of the employee e mail address of the employee social security number of the employee the employee s wages and salaries the employee s date of birth interest income student loan interest paid alimony paid federal income tax withheld etc.

The method also comprises creating an electronic document that includes the extracted data. The electronic document can be for example a PDF file a Microsoft Word document etc.

In another embodiment the method of processing a taxpayer source document comprises receiving proforma data and an electronic image of a taxpayer source document. The method also comprises determining a type of tax statement for the taxpayer source document from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document and selecting a routine corresponding to the type of the tax statement for the taxpayer source document. The routine for example can be a separate program or part of the program embodying the current method. The routine can also correspond to the type of tax statement such as a routine corresponding to a W 2 or a routine corresponding to a 1099 or a routine corresponding to a 1098.

Furthermore the method comprises using the routine corresponding to the type of the tax statement for the taxpayer source document and the proforma data to verify the type of the tax statement for the taxpayer source document by searching for an identification code within the electronic image of the taxpayer source document. The method also comprises using the routine corresponding to the type of the tax statement for the taxpayer source document and the proforma data to extract tax data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document.

In addition the method comprises determining if the extracted data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document has an error by flagging and verifying the extracted data from the electronic image of taxpayer source document that may be an error either through an inability to extract the tax data with a predetermined amount of accuracy or an analysis of the extracted tax data using business rules and creating an electronic document that includes the extracted data. The flagging can be done for example by highlighting the tax data in a predetermined color a mark such as a check or question mark beside the tax data etc.

Furthermore the predetermined amount of accuracy for example can be 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 match between the data extracted in the taxpayer source document and the related proforma data other data or business rules. Also the business rules can be used to indicate if there is a potential error. For example if the employee compensation information is listed as 12 345 in one form and is listed as 12 435 in another form there is a potential error. Furthermore for example currently social security wages should be the lesser of total wages or 94 200 for tax year 2006 . If it is listed as 95 000 there may be a potential error. Also if for example the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 should equal the amount listed in box 4 but the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 do not equal the amount listed in box 4 there may be a potential error. These business rules listed are merely exemplary and are not limited to the examples above.

The business rules could also be used to indicate that the extracted tax data is correct to reduce the amount of verification necessary. For example if the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 should be equal to the amount listed in box 4 and the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 actually do equal the amount listed in box 4 then it is likely that the data indicated in box 1 box 2 box 3 and or box 4 are correct. Thus there may not be a need to further verify the data in box 1 box 2 box 3 and or box 4. This could potentially save a lot of time by reducing the amount of verification necessary.

In yet another embodiment the method of processing a taxpayer source document comprises receiving proforma data and an electronic image of a taxpayer source document and determining a type of tax statement of the taxpayer source document for the electronic image of the taxpayer source document using optical character recognition by searching for predetermined characters in predetermined locations of the electronic image of the taxpayer source document wherein the taxpayer source document is either an income document an adjustment to income document or a deduction document.

Optical character recognition can be for example software designed to translate images of handwritten or typewritten text into a machine readable text. A wage document can include for example the types of tax statements that deal with wages such as a W 2. An investment document can include for example the types of tax statements that deal with interests such as 1099 INT. A deduction document can include for example the types of tax statements that deal with tax deductions such as receipts for charitable contributions or documents related to business expenses eligible for tax deductions.

The method also comprises selecting a routine corresponding to the type of taxpayer source document and using the routine corresponding to the type of taxpayer source document optical character recognition a supplemental database and proforma data to verify the type of taxpayer source document for the electronic image of the taxpayer source document by searching for an identification code within the electronic image of the taxpayer source document. The method also uses the routine corresponding to the type of taxpayer source document optical character recognition the supplemental database business rules and proforma data to extract tax data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document. The supplemental database can be for example an optical character recognition database with 5 databases of 2 000 financial institution names for a total of 10 000 financial institution names.

Furthermore the method can also determine if the extracted data from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document has an error by flagging verifying and correcting the extracted data from the electronic image of taxpayer source document that may be an error either through an inability to extract the tax data with a predetermined amount of accuracy or an analysis of the extracted tax data using business rules.

In addition the method can also assign unassociated images of the taxpayer source documents to parent taxpayer source documents determine if the electronic image of the taxpayer source document is superseded determine if the electronic image of the taxpayer source document is a duplicate determine if the electronic image of the taxpayer source document is a new taxpayer source document supplement the proforma data with tax data extracted from the electronic image of the taxpayer source document and create an electronic document that includes the extracted tax data.

Reference will now be made to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the present invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. On the contrary the present invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be understood by one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known systems components methods and procedures have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the important features of the present invention. As will be appreciated various embodiments of the present invention are described herein and shown in the figures.

In step the computer recognizes and reads the electronic image of the taxpayer source document. is a flow chart of the steps involved in recognizing and reading the electronic image of the taxpayer source document . In step an identification program such as an optical character recognition program attempts to identify a type of tax statement for the electronic image of the taxpayer source document . The identification program identifies the electronic image by determining whether the electronic image is a W 2 Brokerage Statement 1099 INT 1099 DIV K 1 TAX EXEMPT INTEREST TAX EXEMPT DIVIDEND SCH D Attachment SHORT TERM SCH D Attachment LONG TERM K 1 FORM 1065 K 1 FORM 1120S K 1 FORM 1041 FORM 1099 R IRA FORM 1099 R PENSION charity donation receipt etc. If the type of tax statement for the electronic image of the taxpayer source document is identified then the next step is . Otherwise if the electronic image cannot be identified then the method is concluded at step and the electronic image of the taxpayer source document does not get processed by or . The electronic image that cannot be identified is included as an unidentified electronic image in step . However no tax data from the electronic image is exported.

If however the type of tax statement is identified in step the method continues to step . In step the electronic image and the type of tax statement are sent to the appropriate recognition program. The type of the tax statement determines which recognition program is to be used to process the electronic image . For example if the type of tax statement is a W 2 then the electronic image is sent to a W 2 recognition program.

In step the appropriate recognition program receives the electronic image of the taxpayer source document and also the taxpayer proforma data and data from the OCR database . The appropriate recognition program corresponding to the type of taxpayer statement verifies the type of taxpayer source document for the electronic image by searching for an identification code within the electronic image of the taxpayer source document . To find the identification code the appropriate recognition program can use for example optical character recognition in conjunction with a supplemental database such as the OCR database and the taxpayer proforma data .

The identification code can be for example the employer s name and or an employee s social security number for a W 2 form. Searching for an identification code can be advantageous rather than searching for text which might indicate the presence of tax data such as Employee s name address and ZIP code because the identification code will often be in larger text and it may be easier for the optical character recognition to recognize larger text. Furthermore text which might indicate the presence of tax data might be omitted from the taxpayer source document altogether. Also since there is generally no uniform standard format for the taxpayer source document the text which might indicate the present of tax data can often vary from taxpayer source document to taxpayer source document depending on who generates the taxpayer source document. For example the text which might indicate the presence of an employee s social security number might be any one of Employee s SSN Employee s Social Security Employee s SSN Employee s Social Security Number Employee s SSA Number Social Security Number etc.

The identification code can be for example the name of a financial institution such as Fidelity Investments for a 1099 INT. The OCR database can for example contain a database of names or identifications which may correspond to identification codes which the recognition program searches for in the electronic image of the taxpayer source document . The OCR database can include multiple databases for example five 5 databases of 2 000 financial institution names for a total of 10 000 financial institution names. The recognition program searches the first database then the second database then the third database then the fourth database and finally the fifth database. The first database contains for example 2000 of the most popular financial institution names. The second database contains for example the next 2000 most popular financial institution names. It is contemplated that the number of databases the number of financial institution names contained within each database and the total number of financial institution names could be appropriately varied. Furthermore it is contemplated that the supplemental database can contain other information aside from or in addition to financial institution names including but not limited to employer names financial investment information etc.

In step if the type of tax statement for the taxpayer source document is not recognized or verified the method ends at step . However if the type of tax statement for the taxpayer source document is recognized or verified then data such as tax data is extracted from the electronic image in step . If for example the tax data could not be extracted from the electronic image with a predetermined amount of accuracy or a potential error is identified through the use of business rules the tax data could be flagged for later review. The predetermined amount of accuracy for example could be a 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 100 match between the actual tax data in the taxpayer source document and the extracted tax data. For example the text Washiington Mutual might be a match with the text Washington Mutual if the predetermined amount of accuracy is set at 90 or below. Also the text Merrill Linch might be a match with the text Merrill Lynch if the predetermined amount of accuracy is set at 85 or below.

Also the recognition program can use business rules to indicate if there is a potential error. For example if the employee compensation information is listed as 12 345 in one form and is listed as 12 435 in another form there is a potential error. Furthermore for example currently social security wages should be the lesser of total wages or 94 200 for tax year 2006 . If it is listed as 95 000 there may be a potential error. Also if for example the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 of the taxpayer source document should equal the amount listed in box 4 of the taxpayer source document but the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 does not equal the amount listed in box 4 there may be a potential error. These business rules listed are merely exemplary and are not limited to the examples above and include other rules such as those mandated by the United States Internal Revenue Services mathematical certainties etc.

However the business rules can also be used to reduce the amount of tax data that is flagged for later review. For example if the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 should be equal to the amount listed in box 4 and the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 actually do equal the amount listed in box 4 then it is likely that the data indicated in box 1 box 2 box 3 and or box 4 are correct. Thus there may not be a need to further verify the data in box 1 box 2 box 3 and or box 4. This could potentially save a lot of time by reducing the amount of verification necessary. Such data could be indicated by a flag a check mark or other indicia to indicate to the user that the data does not need to be reviewed for example in step .

After the tax data is extracted from the electronic image step the method ends at step and proceeds to step for review and modification.

In step as shown in the tax data is reviewed and modified if necessary. A sample screen shot of the start of the review can be seen in . In step a determination of whether auto verification is possible was done is made. As stated above auto verification can be accomplished using business rules. For example if the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 should be equal to the amount listed in box 4 and the sum of box 1 box 2 and box 3 actually do equal the amount listed in box 4 then it is likely that the data indicated in box 1 box 2 box 3 and or box 4 are correct. Thus there may not be a need to further verify the data in box 1 box 2 box 3 and or box 4. If auto verification is possible was done then the next step is step and steps and are skipped.

If auto verification is not possible was not done then the potentially erroneous tax data is verified in step with a sample screen shot shown in . This can be done manually for example by a person. As shown in items are relevant portions of the electronic image of the taxpayer source document that correspond to the extracted tax data. Items are the extracted tax data while items are check boxes to indicate if a field is correct. For example item shows an amount of 11640 from the relevant portion of the electronic image and item shows that the extracted tax data has been corrected to be 1160 as indicated by the check mark on item . Item shows an amount 950 from the relevant portion of the electronic image and item shows the extracted tax data was 450 before it is corrected as indicated by the unmarked box on item . Item shows the text FURNITURE from the relevant portion of the electronic image and item shows the extracted tax data has been modified to correctly reflect FURNITURE as indicated by the check mark on item

When the relevant portions of items are clicked on for example by a mouse cursor the entire electronic image of the taxpayer source document is displayed. Alternatively when buttons are clicked on for example by a mouse or a short cut key on a keyboard such as F1 or F2 not shown is depressed the entire electronic image of the taxpayer source document can also be displayed. This allows the person reviewing the tax data to view other portions of the electronic image . The person can also click on a portion of the electronic image to redisplay the previous screen shot as shown in .

In step tax data known to be erroneous is corrected. This can be done manually for example by a person. It is also contemplated that this could be done by one or more people. For example after a first person has corrected the known errors a second person can check the first person s work. Furthermore it is also possible that the second person corrects the known errors independently of the first person and the two corrected versions are compared against each other. As shown in items are relevant portions of the electronic image of the taxpayer source document that correspond to the extracted tax data and items are the erroneously extracted tax data. The user can visually inspect to determine if they match with the relevant portions of the electronic image . If an item is the correct data e.g. matches with then no further action is necessary. For example item shows the term APPRAISAL which has already been correctly extracted as the term Appraisal in item . Thus there is no action necessary for

However if one or more of the items do not match e.g. the value displayed in does not match with the value in then further action may be necessary. For example item shows the character T while item shows the options to be either T or S with T corresponding to taxpayer and S corresponding to spouse. However even if there is not a match no action may be necessary because the erroneous tax data was already corrected during extraction. For example the item shows the term PURCHASE which has already been corrected during extraction in item as the term Purchase prior to this step and without any user intervention or action.

In step the unassociated taxpayer source documents are associated with parent taxpayer source documents. Unassociated taxpayer source documents can be taxpayer source documents for example that could be used for various purposes. For example taxpayer source documents related to a real estate owned by the taxpayer can be used as an itemized deduction if it is a personal residence or it can be a rental property expense if it relates to an investment property. Thus the unassociated taxpayer source document related to the real estate owned by the taxpayer can for example be associated with a parent taxpayer source document such as a Schedule E rental property or a personal itemized deduction form. If it is associated with a Schedule E rental property then the previously unassociated taxpayer source document would be used in the calculation of the Schedule E net income or loss. If it is associated with a personal itemized deduction form then the previously unassociated taxpayer source document can be used for itemized deduction calculations. For example in items are parent forms and items are unassociated taxpayer source documents. As shown by the highlighting unassociated taxpayer source document is now associated with parent form

In step the taxpayer source documents which have been superseded or are identical copies are noted as being superseded. A taxpayer source document can be superseded for example if the issuer of the source document e.g. a bank or brokerage firm issues a corrected copy of the same source document. A taxpayer source document can also be superseded for example if it contains data which is erroneous such as wrong gross wages. This can be seen if one electronic image of the taxpayer source document such as a W 2 indicates that the gross wages were 48 786 while another electronic image of the taxpayer source document indicates that the gross wages were 47 886. If the gross wages were actually 48 786 the other taxpayer source document indicating that the gross wages were 47 886 would be superseded. Also this step can be used to identify identical copies of the same document. For instance many times a taxpayer receives 3 copies of the same tax form. If three copies of the same taxpayer source document are created as three separate electronic images only one taxpayer source document should be entered into the return. This feature identifies that there are three identical copies and allows the user to exclude two of them.

As shown in page and page have both been identified as the same taxpayer source document . This indicates that one of the two documents is either superseded or an identical copy of the other. If a check mark is placed by item and or item for example then it indicates that the check marked electronic image of the taxpayer source document has been superseded or is a duplicate copy. For example item has a check mark placed next to it and it is noted as being superseded while item does not have a check mark placed next to it indicating that it has not been superseded.

In step the electronic images of the taxpayer source documents are checked to determine if the electronic images of the taxpayer source documents are duplicates. Duplicates can be for example two electronic images of the taxpayer source documents with a first electronic image of the taxpayer source document being created by the employer or payer of the taxpayer and the second electronic image of the taxpayer source document being an organizer page that was completed by the taxpayer containing the same data as the first taxpayer source document . The data on the organizer page would be considered duplicate since the data on the source document generated by the actual employer payer etc. is the copy that gets reported to the IRS and thus the copy that needs to be used to prepare the return.

If duplicates are not removed the second electronic image of the taxpayer source document could be treated as a separate taxpayer source document. Thus there could be errors for example if the duplicate electronic images of the taxpayer source documents were a W 2 and a Wages organizer page. In that case the first electronic image of the taxpayer source document and the second electronic image of the taxpayer source document would be treated as two separate W 2s. Thus it would seem that the taxpayer has two jobs instead of just one and two incomes instead of one. This could cause problems when calculating how much taxes the taxpayer owes or how much refunds the taxpayer is entitled to receive. For example in items represent a first set of electronic images of taxpayer organizer pages while items represent a second set of electronic images of taxpayer source documents. Here item and item are duplicates of taxpayer source documents. Boxes correspond to items e.g. box corresponds to item box corresponds to item etc. If item is a duplicate then box can be marked to indicate that item is a duplicate. Likewise if is also a duplicate then box can also be marked to indicate that is a duplicate. It is contemplated that only items could be duplicates and not items 

Optionally in step as shown in if the electronic image of the taxpayer source document was not found within the proforma data a user can drag and drop the listed electronic image of the taxpayer source document into the correct folder in the proforma data. For example item and item are folders in the proforma data while item is a document that was dragged and dropped in folder . Items are electronic images of taxpayer source documents that have not been dragged and dropped into folders in the proforma data. By dragging and dropping the electronic image of the taxpayer source document into the correct folder in the proforma data the electronic image of the taxpayer source document matches up with the proforma data. Any electronic images of the taxpayer source documents that are not drag and dropped into the folders can be set up as a new record.

In step the tax data that has been extracted from the electronic images of the taxpayer source documents and used to update the proforma data and is stored in tax software file system database . Thus if the proforma data previously only contained wage information for the year 2005 and the current year for the taxpayer source document is 2006 the proforma data can be updated to include not only the wage information from the year 2005 but also the wage information from the year 2006.

Referring to optionally in step the extracted tax data and or the electronic images of the taxpayer source documents can be used to create an electronic document that includes the extracted tax data. The electronic document can be for example a PDF a Microsoft Word document etc. Step signifies the start of step . In step the electronic images of the taxpayer source documents can be bookmarked in various ways such as by the type of taxpayer source document the name of the taxpayer source document or even the classification of the taxpayer source document e.g. a wage document an investment document or a deduction document .

In step the electronic image of the taxpayer source document can be optionally organized to follow the order of the bookmarks. In step the areas of the electronic image of the taxpayer source document where tax data was extracted can be highlighted for example in various colors. For example these colors can be aqua yellow green or red. Aqua for example can signify that the extracted tax data was unnecessary because it was already in proforma data. Yellow for example can signify that the extracted tax data was exported to the tax software database in step . Red for example can signify that the extracted tax data may be erroneous. Green for example can signify that the extracted tax data was exported to the tax software database in step from another source document and therefore nothing was done with the green highlighted instance of the data. It is contemplated that other colors could be used. In step the extracted tax data can be inserted in the highlighted areas of the electronic image of the taxpayer source document. Furthermore in step those highlighted areas which have been reviewed or corrected either manually or automatically through auto verification for example in steps and or can be marked such as with a check mark. Step signifies the end of Step S.

The result of step for example can be the creation of an electronic document that includes some or all of the extracted tax data. The electronic document can also include unidentified electronic images.

Although exemplary embodiments of the present invention has been shown and described many other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs may be made by one having skill in the art without necessarily departing from the spirit and scope of this present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not intended to be limited by the preferred embodiments but is to be defined by reference to the appended claims.

