---

title: Integration of predefined multi-dimensional and flexibly-ordered dynamic search interfaces
abstract: A method, computer program product, and system for integrating faceted and predefined multi-dimensional search interfaces are provided. The method, computer program product, and system provide for displaying a first set of results from a search request in a faceted search interface and a second set of results from the search request in a predefined multi-dimensional search interface, and responsive to a user action in the predefined multi-dimensional search interface affecting a scope of the search request, synchronizing the faceted search interface with changes in the predefined multi-dimensional search interface without requiring a separate user action in the faceted search interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07788269&OS=07788269&RS=07788269
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07788269
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
The present invention relates generally to flexibly ordered dynamic as well as predefined multi dimensional search interfaces.

For certain types of data such as sales and marketing data a flexibly ordered dynamic search interface and a predefined multi dimensional search interface may be simultaneously used to analyze the data. An example of a flexibly ordered dynamic search interface is a faceted interface where data is categorized into facets for analysis. An example of a predefined multi dimensional search interface is an online analytical processing OLAP interface where measures are derived from data and loaded into for instance a predefined cube structure for analysis.

Analysis of data using both flexibly ordered dynamic and predefined multi dimensional search interfaces however has been hampered by a lack of complete integration between the interfaces. For instance changes made in the predefined multi dimensional search interface are not reflected in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface. This lack of integration could lead to asynchronous behavior from a user s point of view and make it difficult for the user to analyze the data.

A method computer program product and system for integrating faceted and predefined multi dimensional search interfaces are provided. The method computer program product and system provide for displaying a first set of results from a search request in a faceted search interface and a second set of results from the search request in a predefined multi dimensional search interface the second set of results correlating to the first set of results the first set of results being retrieved from a first data source and the second set of results being retrieved from a second data source separate from the first data source the first data source and the second data source being created from a same data set or correlated data sets and responsive to a user action in the predefined multi dimensional search interface affecting a scope of the search request synchronizing the faceted search interface with changes in the predefined multi dimensional search interface without requiring a separate user action in the faceted search interface.

The present invention generally relates to flexibly ordered dynamic and predefined multi dimensional search interfaces. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements. The present invention is not intended to be limited to the implementations shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

A flexibly ordered dynamic search interface is sometimes used in conjunction with a predefined multi dimensional search interface to analyze data relating to for instance sales and marketing. One example of a flexibly ordered dynamic search interface is a faceted interface in which a data set is categorized into facets for analysis. An example of a predefined multi dimensional search interface is an online analytical processing OLAP interface in which measures are derived from the data set and loaded into data structures with interconnected dimensions such as cubes or multi dimensional arrays for analysis.

Simultaneous use of flexibly ordered dynamic and predefined multi dimensional interfaces however has been limited by a lack of complete integration between the two interfaces. Illustrated in is a prior art application that provides both a flexibly ordered dynamic search interface and a predefined multi dimensional search interface . As illustrated in only changes invoked in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface such as a user clicking on a facet will propagate to the predefined multi dimensional search interface not the other way around.

Hence if changes are invoked in the predefined multi dimensional search interface such as user selection of a drill down operation those changes will not be reflected in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface . From the user s point of view interfaces and will become inconsistent which could make it difficult for the user to correctly analyze the underlying data.

Thus if a user invokes changes in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface by for example clicking on a facet or entering a natural language search term then those changes will be propagated to the predefined multi dimensional search interface . In addition if the user invokes changes in the predefined multi dimensional search interface by for example selecting a drill down operation a drill up operation or a slice and dice operation then those changes will be propagated to the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface .

Shown in is a process for integrating flexibly ordered dynamic and predefined multi dimensional search interfaces according to an implementation of the invention. At a first set of results from a search request is displayed in a flexibly ordered dynamic search interface and a second set of results from the search request is displayed in a predefined multi dimensional search interface. In the implementation the second set of results is correlated to e.g. based on the first set of results the first set of results is retrieved from a first data source and the second set of results is retrieved from a second data source that is separate from the first data source. The first data source and the second data source may be created from a same data set or may be created from separate data sets that are correlated to one another e.g. can be mapped from one to the other .

The flexibly ordered dynamic search interface is a faceted interface and the predefined multi dimensional search interface is an OLAP interface in one implementation. The second data source may be an interconnected dimensional data structure such as a cube and the first data source may be an independent dimensional data structure such as a search index. With independent dimensional data structures only values from the same dimension can be aggregated. With interconnected dimensional data structures values of interconnected dimensions are available for aggregation. Data in the first data source and the second data source may be derived from or created from the same data set or multiple correlated data sets which may be structured data such as a database table an Extensible Markup Language XML file and so forth or unstructured data such as text files of for instance notes contracts and so forth.

At in response to a user action in the predefined multi dimensional search interface affecting a scope of the search request the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface is synchronized with changes in the predefined multi dimensional search interface without requiring a separate user action in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface. In one implementation the user action in the predefined multi dimensional search interface is user selection of a drill down operation a drill up operation or a slice and dice operation.

A drill down operation in the predefined multi dimensional search interface is similar to a refinement of the search request. A drill up operation is the opposite of a drill down operation i.e. a broadening of the search request. A slice and dice operation re arranges data to enable viewing of the data from a different perspective.

Flexibly ordered dynamic search interface displays data from the first set of results and predefined multi dimensional search interface displays data from the correlated second set of results. The flexibly ordered dynamic search interface and the predefined multi dimensional search interface may be part of a single user interface not shown . In one implementation the first set of results and the second set of results stored in data model is an aggregation or a subset of all of the results retrieved for the search request.

Responsive to a user action in the predefined multi dimensional search interface that affects a scope of the search request the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface synchronizes with changes in the predefined multi dimensional search interface without requiring a separate user action in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface . System may include other components such as additional interfaces interface controllers search engines data access layers data provider layers and so forth.

Depicted in is a process for integrating flexibly ordered dynamic and predefined multi dimensional search interfaces according to an implementation of the invention. At a first set of results from a search request is displayed in a flexibly ordered dynamic search interface and a second set of results from the search request is displayed in a predefined multi dimensional search interface. The second set of results is correlated to the first set of results. For example the second set of results may be based on or correspond to the first set of results.

A determination is made at as to whether there has been a user action in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface. If there has not been a user action in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface a determination is made at as to whether there has been a user action in the predefined multi dimensional search interface. Process loops back to if there has not been a user action in the predefined multi dimensional search interface. Before looping back to process may wait a predetermined amount of time.

If there has been a user action in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface or the predefined multi dimensional search interface a determination is made at as to whether the user action affects a scope of the search request since not all user actions may affect the scope of the search request. Process returns back to when the user action does not affect the scope of the search request. The search request is modified at when the user action does affect the scope of the search request.

At a modified first set of results from the modified search request is displayed in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface and a modified second set of results is displayed in the predefined multi dimensional search interface. In one implementation displaying the modified first set of results comprises updating a portion of the first set of results displayed in the flexibly ordered dynamic search interface.

System also includes search engines and an integration engine a faceted interface and an OLAP interface . Search engine can be used to search independent dimensional data structure and search engine can be used to search interconnected dimensional data structure . Integration engine interfaces with both search engines and to retrieve results of a search request from independent dimensional data structure and interconnected dimensional data structure . Retrieved results are stored in a data model .

Faceted interface displays results retrieved from independent dimensional data structure which are stored in data model . OLAP interface displays correlated results retrieved from interconnected dimensional data structure which are also stored in data model . In one implementation the results stored in data model may be limited to the results that will be displayed in interfaces and . As a result data model may not include all of the results from the search request.

As shown in interface controllers and are provided in system one for each of the interfaces and . Each of the interface controllers and can detect user actions in the respective interfaces and and determine whether a user action affects a scope of the search request. In response to a user action in the faceted interface or the OLAP interface affecting the scope of the search request the corresponding interface controller or triggers a modification of the search request.

In the implementation of a search object is created to store the scope of the search request. A search scope controller is also provided to control search object . Search scope controller includes one or more methods that are operable to change the scope of the search request. Hence interface controller or can trigger modification of the search request by calling the one or more methods to change the scope of the search request. After the scope of the search request in search object is modified search object can be passed to integration engine to retrieve results for the modified search request from independent dimensional data structure and interconnected dimensional data structure by issuing for instance a search and index application programming interface SIAPI query to search engine and a multi dimensional expression MDX query to search engine

Results retrieved from the modified search request are stored in data model . Thereafter faceted interface displays the modified results retrieved from independent dimensional data structure and OLAP interface displays the modified results retrieved from interconnected dimensional data structure . Hence regardless of whether a user action occurs in the faceted interface or in the OLAP interface when the user action affects the scope of the search request both interfaces will be updated without requiring a subsequent user action in the other interface. This allows users to better visualize the data to be analyzed since the interfaces and will no longer be susceptible to asynchronous behavior.

Illustrated in are sample screenshots of an application according to an implementation of the invention. Application includes both a faceted interface and an OLAP interface . In within faceted interface and OLAP interface are results from a search request for COLORED TELEVISIONS. Many facets are displayed in faceted interface including Product COLORED TELEVISIONS MISCELLANEOUS TV COLOR Store Subdivision 1A Subdivision 1B Time 2002 2003 2004 and so forth. Some of the facets such as COLORED TELEVISIONS MISCELLANEOUS TV COLOR Subdivision 1A Subdivision 1B 2002 2003 2004 and so forth are children of other facets and are sometimes referred to as child facets or sub facets.

Adjacent to some of the facets in faceted interface is a number in parenthesis. In the implementation the number reflects a number of documents classified by the facet. The term document is used to refer to the smallest unit that will be returned as a result. Hence a document can be for instance a text file a row of data from a table or an XML tagged data.

OLAP interface displays graphical and table representations of results retrieved from an interconnected dimensional data structure. As seen in a user has selected a drill down operation from TV COLOR in OLAP interface . Since the user action affects a scope of the search request the search request is modified to be COLORED TELEVISIONS TV COLOR. Results from the modified search request are displayed in . As illustrated in faceted interface is updated to show sub facets of the facet TV COLOR. In addition the graphical and table representations in OLAP interface have been updated to show the additional results.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware implementation an entirely software implementation or an implementation containing both hardware and software elements. In one aspect the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to application software firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include DVD compact disk read only memory CD ROM and compact disk read write CD R W .

Memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times the code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. As shown input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. are coupled to data processing system . I O devices may be coupled to data processing system directly or indirectly through intervening I O controllers not shown .

In the implementation a network adapter is coupled to data processing system to enable data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through communication link . Communication link can be a private or public network. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

While various implementations for integrating flexibly ordered dynamic and predefined multi dimensional search interfaces have been described the technical scope of the present invention is not limited thereto. For example the present invention is described in terms of particular systems having certain components and particular methods having certain steps in a certain order. One of ordinary skill in the art however will readily recognize that the methods described herein can for instance include additional steps and or be in a different order and that the systems described herein can for instance include additional or substitute components. Hence various modifications or improvements can be added to the above implementations and those modifications or improvements fall within the technical scope of the present invention.

