---

title: Apparatus and methods of identifying potentially similar content for data reduction
abstract: Apparatus and methods of identifying potentially similar content include utilizing workflow metadata to identify potential similarities in content to be processed, or between content to be processed and known content. As a result, a subset of potentially similar content is identified, and the subset can be used in data reduction operations to reduce data in the content to be processed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07836053&OS=07836053&RS=07836053
owner: Group Logic, Inc.
number: 07836053
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071228
---
The described aspects relate to identifying potentially similar content for performing or enabling data reduction.

Data reduction or compression techniques may be utilized to reduce the amount of data in a piece of content such as a digital document or file for improving the efficiency in the transfer or storage of the content. Data compression may be utilized in applications such as file transfer file synchronization content storage de duplication or any application where minimizing the size of the data is desirable.

In one specific example data compression is utilized in the transfer of documents between two or more locations referred to as file transfer. Because the communications links between the locations may have low bandwidth or high latency or both the time it takes to transfer the documents can be significant. Alternatively even with a fast network the file transfer may take a long time if the files have a large size or if many files are being sent. By utilizing data compression techniques the amount of data that needs to be transmitted can be reduced thus reducing the transmission time. Further a reduction in the amount of data to be transmitted will reduce the sum total of the amount of bandwidth required for the transmission and thus free up bandwidth for other types of communication.

There are a number of different data compression techniques including compressing a file based on the same data content being already known. For example these techniques may compare data content in a single file among a plurality of files to be transferred and between one or more files to be transferred and a plurality of files known by the destination or otherwise known in the system. In general the focus of the existing solutions is on calculating the distance or difference between files or documents using document fingerprinting with hashing algorithms applied to sections of the file or document. Further with each document represented by a collection of document fingerprints or hashes then the existing solutions attempt to find similarities between the fingerprints as a way to sift through the universe of documents that are known.

However applying hashing fingerprinting to a large universe of documents in an efficient manner such as in terms of CPU memory or disk utilization and overall execution time is infeasible in many cases especially when working with very large documents and or a very large number of documents such as 1000 s or 100 000 s of documents and or when the transfer is time critical or involves a CPU memory constraint.

Thus improved systems are desired for efficiently reducing the potential set of similar documents that are used as inputs to algorithms for reducing the amount of data in content to be transferred or stored.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one aspect a computer implemented method of identifying potentially similar content for data reduction comprises receiving content workflow metadata corresponding to content to be processed wherein the content to be processed includes a data component and wherein the content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to the data component. The method further comprises receiving known content workflow metadata corresponding to a first plurality of known content wherein each known content includes a known data component and wherein the known content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to each respective known data component. Also the method comprises determining a potential similarity between the data component of the content to be processed and at least one known data component of at least one of the first plurality of known content based on a similarity between the respective content workflow metadata and the respective known content workflow metadata. Additionally the method comprises outputting an identification of potentially similar content based on the determined potential similarity for use in reducing data in the content to be processed.

In another aspect a computer program product configured to identify potentially similar content for data reduction comprises a computer readable medium comprising instructions. The computer readable medium comprises at least one set of instructions operable to cause a computer to receive content workflow metadata corresponding to content to be processed wherein the content to be processed includes a data component and wherein the content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to the data component. Further the computer readable medium comprises at least one set of instructions operable to cause the computer to receive known content workflow metadata corresponding to a first plurality of known contents wherein each known content includes a known data component and wherein the known content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to each respective known data component. Also the computer readable medium comprises at least one set of instructions operable to cause the computer to determine a potential similarity between the data component of the content to be processed and at least one known data component of at least one of the first plurality of known contents based on a potential similarity between the respective content workflow metadata and the respective known content workflow metadata. Additionally the computer readable medium comprises at least one set of instructions operable to cause the computer to output an identification of potentially similar content based on the determined potential similarity for use in reducing data in the content to be processed.

In yet another aspect at least one processor configured to identify potentially similar content for data reduction comprises a first module for receiving content workflow metadata corresponding to content to be processed wherein the content to be processed includes a data component and wherein the content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to the data component. The at least one processor further comprises a second module for receiving known content workflow metadata corresponding to a first plurality of known contents wherein each known content includes a known data component and wherein the known content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to each respective known data component. Also the at least one processor comprises a third module for determining a potential similarity between the data component of the content to be processed and at least one known data component of at least one of the first plurality of known contents based on a potential similarity between the respective content workflow metadata and the respective known content workflow metadata. Additionally the at least one processor comprises a fourth module for outputting an identification of potentially similar content based on the determined potential similarity for use in reducing data in the content to be processed.

In a further aspect a computing device for identifying potentially similar content for data reduction comprises means for receiving content workflow metadata corresponding to content to be processed wherein the content to be processed includes a data component and wherein the content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to the data component. Also the computing device comprises means for receiving known content workflow metadata corresponding to a first plurality of known contents wherein each known content includes a known data component and wherein the known content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to each respective known data component. Further the computing device comprises means for determining a potential similarity between the data component of the content to be processed and at least one known data component of at least one of the first plurality of known contents based on a potential similarity between the respective content workflow metadata and the respective known content workflow metadata. Additionally the computing device comprises means for outputting an identification of potentially similar content based on the determined potential similarity for use in reducing data in the content to be processed.

In yet another aspect a computing device for identifying potentially similar content for data reduction comprises a communications module operable to receive content workflow metadata corresponding to content to be processed wherein the content to be processed includes a data component and wherein the content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to the data component. Further the communications module is operable to receive known content workflow metadata corresponding to a first plurality of known content wherein each known content includes a known data component and wherein the known content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to each respective known data component. Additionally the computing device comprises a similarity identifier module having one or more similarity rules operable to determine a potential similarity between the data component of the content to be processed and at least one known data component of at least one of the first plurality of known content based on a potential similarity between the respective content workflow metadata and the respective known content workflow metadata. Further the similarity identifier component is operable to output an identification of potentially similar content based on the determined potential similarity for use in reducing data in the content to be processed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used. Further it should be noted that such systems may be presented with a given configuration of components but that other configurations may be utilized to accomplish the features discussed herein.

Referring to in one aspect a system of identifying potentially similar content for performing or enabling data reduction includes a similarity identifier component . Similarity identifier component is operable to compare one or more content to be processed with one or more known content based on comparing respective workflow process metadata and to identify a subset of potentially similar content for use by a data reduction component .

The content to be processed may include content to be transferred synchronized de duplicated backed up or any other operation benefiting from reducing the data size of content associated with systems such as a workflow or job tracking system a file transfer system a synchronization system a wide area file service a file system or an asset management system. The known content may include for example any content known in system . As used herein known means either the content is located somewhere in system or the corresponding workflow metadata can be determined e.g. in the file transfer case the known content may actually be located somewhere else and so it is known to the entire system but not necessarily known to both sides of the transfer. In any case the subset of potentially similar content includes a subset of the content to be processed matched with a subset of the known content based on the respective workflow process metadata and . In some aspects for example the subset of potentially similar content may be a proper subset e.g. a number less than all of the plurality of known content and or a proper subset of all of the content to be processed .

Further similarity identifier component provides data reduction component with or allows access to the identified subset of potentially similar content . In turn data reduction component is operable to focus its operations on the subset of potentially similar content . As such rather than having to compare the entire universe of known content against all of the content to be processed data reduction component instead analyzes the subset of potentially similar content which may be smaller in size or which has the likelihood of having data in common thereby improving efficiency and feasibility of data reduction operations.

Data reduction component identifies the same data components and or different data components found in the subset of potentially similar content . The same data components found in both the subset of content to be processed and the subset of the known content comprise identical or redundant data that is already known and thus is replaced with a token having a smaller data size than the redundant data component. Further token may include information identifying a location within system where the known redundant data component may be found. On the other hand the one or more different data components found in the subset of data to be processed when compared with the subset of known data represent new or unknown data. As such data reduction component replaces the content to be processed with a reduced data representation that includes the identified one or more different data components or the one or more tokens representing same data components or some combination of both. As such reduced data representation has a smaller overall data size which may be in terms of storage space and or network bandwidth than the original content to be processed .

Content processing component obtains and processes the reduced data representation thereby generating processed content . As such content processing component may include any type of logic such as logic operable to perform any operation on content to be processed . Thus processed content may include for example content that has been transferred synchronized de duplicated backed up or any other operation performable by content processing logic and benefiting from the reduced data size of the content. Additionally it should be noted that in some aspects one or more of similarity identifier component data reduction component or content processing component may be implemented within the same or by different modules or by the same or by different computing devices.

Thus similarity identifier component advantageously operates in part to narrow down the universe of known content into a subset of potentially similar content for use by data reduction component thereby improving efficiency and feasibility of data reduction operations. In other words similarity identifier component reduces the effort used by data reduction component to find similarities or differences between the content under analysis by reducing the total number of content to be considered. Alternatively in some situations similarity identifier component enables the use of redundant data compression because those situations previously had environments and or time criticality demands for operation that made the redundant data compression approach infeasible. Additionally because the subset of potentially similar content includes potentially similar workflow processing metadata and similarity identifier component increases the likelihood of data reduction component being able to identify similarities or differences and thus reduce a size of the data for the respective content to be processed .

Therefore via system content processing component is operable to process or initiate the processing of one or more reduced data representations of one or more pieces of content to be processed where similarity identifier component enables or increases an efficiency of data reduction component . In particular similarity identifier component supplies as an input or provides data reduction component with access to an identity of a subset of potentially similar content between the content to be processed and known content based on comparing respective workflow processing metadata and . As such data reduction component is operable to efficiently reduce a size of the data for processing by eliminating one or more redundant data components prior to the processing of the content.

Referring to each piece of content which includes content to be processed and known content from includes one or more data components created or modified in a workflow processing of the content. Further each piece of content is associated with as indicated by the dashed lines or includes content information which includes container metadata describing the respective container holding the content as well as workflow processing metadata describing one or more workflow processing characteristics associated with one or more data components of the respective content.

Each data component includes any data element that makes up the respective content . For example data component may include one or more of text graphics audio video code scripts coding and any other data that may be part of a piece of content. In one aspect for example one or more data components may correspond to one or more digital files that make up a piece of content. Additional examples of data component include one or more of raw video or audio streams of a movie data defining a digital photograph data defining text data defining a font and any other data defining at least some portion of the content.

Container metadata includes information describing basic attributes of the container or file itself as opposed to attributes of the data that forms or defines the content. For example container metadata may include but is not limited to one or any combination of a content name or identifier a position in the respective content or file system a content file extension describing the format of the content or type of the file a date time of creation a date time of modification a creator identification etc. For example when the container is a file these attributes may be called metadata about the file which describe the container in general but which do not describe the data elements within the container. As such these attributes are generally not sufficient for finding larger relationships between content files job components.

On the other hand workflow processing metadata relates to or describes at least one data component of the respective content . For example workflow processing metadata may include but is not limited to any data that identifies or describes a workflow process associated with or application to a respective data component an identification or description of a data component an identification or description of a data component type information relating to a workflow process to be applied to a component s information relating to workflow process steps that have been applied to a component s information defining an association of the content to a particular type of workflow including how the association is structured information defining an association of a data component in a workflow to other data components in the workflow or other types of related workflows characteristics of the content being described by the workflow e.g. for photography the type of camera used metadata about the photoshoot job etc. identification description of the data component including classification of the data component relative to some workflow specific classification system identification description of the type and make up of the data component or any other data describing the data component and or its relationship to a workflow process.

For example workflow processing metadata includes workflow processing metadata of content to be processed and workflow processing metadata of known content . The workflow processing of content may correspond to a single workflow or may be one of a plurality of inter related sub workflows either on content or on other content or both corresponding to one or more other sub workflows or one or more other main workflows or both. For example the main workflow may correspond to a respective job or overall product of the workflow processing such that the workflow processing metadata may be used to identify a respective data component as being a part of the respective job or overall product as well as to the specific sub workflow that has or will operate on the respective data component.

In one aspect for example workflow processing metadata may include Extensible Metadata Platform XMP type data as defined by Adobe Systems Inc. XMP metadata defines the history of a file as it is modified through a series of workflow steps but can also be extended to include information such as job membership which indicates how the respective data component or content relates to other data components or other contents or other properties such as workflow processing characteristics of the respective data component or other custom extended metadata that is workflow specific and can be used to identify data components or contents that are related or descendants of one another etc. XMP allows each software program or device in the workflow process to add its own information to a digital resource which can then be retained in the final digital file. In another aspect for example workflow processing metadata may include the eXtensible Access Method XAM type data as defined by the Storage Networking Industry Association. XAM is an emerging standard that allows files in a file store to be annotated with metadata such as job membership in this case. In yet another aspect for example workflow processing metadata may include the Job Definition Format JDF type data. JDF is a standard for defining digital workflows in the graphics arts industry. JDF may be used to define how a file component relates to a larger job and the processing that needs to be or has been applied to the file. For example JDF enables each node or content processing component in this case to determine what files it needs as input and where they are found and what processes to perform on the file. The node or content processing component then modifies the JDF job ticket to describe what it has done and examines the JDF job ticket to determine where the message and accompanying files should be sent next. As such the JDF job ticket may comprise the workflow processing metadata in this case. In another aspect for example workflow processing metadata may include the Material eXchange Format MXF type data which is a container format for professional digital video and audio media defined by a set of Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers SMPTE standards. MXF is a container or wrapper format that supports a number of different streams of coded essence encoded with any of a variety of codecs together with a metadata wrapper which describes the material contained within the MXF file. These are examples only various industries have their own metadata definitions for workflow. Accordingly workflow processing metadata is not limited to these examples but may include any type or any combination of types of data relating to workflow processing of data components or content.

Further content information and in particular workflow processing metadata can be related to the respective content in a number of ways embedded in the content i.e. an XMP blob embedded in an Adobe Portable Document Format PDF document which can be extracted using a programming toolkit or other mechanism in a group of files including the content wherein one file includes the metadata and the other files include supporting files or resources where the group of files includes a linkage as such the metadata file may be updated as work is performed on the content attached to the file as an extended attribute for example on the Windows NTFS file system the metadata can be attached as an alternative data stream so that it does not modify the actual file but goes along with the file as the file is processed stored with the file for example in a secondary file such as a .  file similar to how the Mac OS X SMB Client stores file stored as a record in a central repository such as an asset management system or workflow job tracking system that can relate an identifier in the file file index path hash fingerprint etc. to a record in the system. In other words workflow processing metadata may be stored within the content linked to the content or stored separately from the content. In any case system includes the ability of similarity identifier component to access the respective workflow processing metadata .

Referring to similarity identifier component is operable to identify potentially similar content based on workflow processing metadata . In one aspect for example similarity identifier component may be operable to compare the respective workflow processing metadata of the respective content to be processed with the respective workflow processing metadata of the respective known content to determine a potential similarity between the two. In particular in some aspects similarity identifier component is operable to determine a potential similarity between the data component of the file to be processed and at least one known data component of at least one of the first plurality of known files based on a similarity between the respective file workflow metadata and the respective known file workflow metadata. As such the subset of potentially similar content may be based on the determined potential similarity .

For example workflow processing metadata of content to be processed may include information that identifies a data component as a photograph and as being associated with a specific project or job identifier. In this case similarity identifier component may be able to find all other photographs that are known in system or that have been previously transferred from or received by the source of content to be processed that have workflow processing metadata that matches the respective project or job identifier. As such similarity identifier component identifies potentially similar content as being the respective data component or the entire piece of the respective content to be processed and the respective data component or the entire piece of the respective known content having the matching project or job identifier. In this case potential similarity may be represented by the existence of the matching project or job identifier. Alternately in other aspects potential similarity may be represented by a count of how many matching metadata components are found. As such potential similarity may include for example any indicator such as any value representative of a potential for having a same e.g. identical component.

Further for example similarity identifier component may include one or more similarity rules to determine potential similarity between one or more of the plurality of known content and one or more of content to be processed . In some aspects a respective similarity rule used by similarity identifier component may be workflow specific e.g. the rule may depend on a type of the workflow associated with the respective content to be processed since the workflow processing metadata standards as noted above can be workflow specific or industry specific. For example the items of the JDF metadata that can indicate similarity in a print graphics art workflow may different from workflow metadata corresponding to video production. Additionally users of system may define custom workflow processing metadata such as a job number or an account number which could be used to determine similarity. As such a respective similarity rule may be customized or specifically defined based on the respective application.

Further in one aspect one or more of similarity rules include configurable protocols to determine potential similarity as well as including one or more configurable similarity thresholds that classify potential similarity such as one or more values or ranges of values of determined potential similarity that correspond to one or more levels of potentially similar content .

Additionally it should be noted that similarity identifier component may be utilized at any time during any of the processing of system .

In one example which should not be construed as limiting content to be transferred and known content may include a collection of PDF files that represent advertisements to be inserted into a magazine. While the file names may be different these advertisements may have workflow specific metadata associated with them that allow similarity identifier component to determine for example that they are part of the same account number or the same content but translated into different languages or similar images but different messaging. Each of these determinations is based on the workflow specific metadata. Once similarity identifier component makes this determination similarity identifier component can conclude that these files are likely to be similar and thus can identify them as potentially similar content . Correspondingly data reduction component can access the respective identified potentially similar content and apply the differencing compression protocol to generate reduced data representation .

In an alternative example content to be transferred may be part of a magazine that contains multiple components within it. Similarity identifier component can determine that those components may be similar to other known components that are included in the magazine or that are included in another issue of the magazine that is being processed by using the workflow specific metadata to determine potential similarities.

Further in another non limiting example in the case of a de duplication scenario of an asset management system having an unwieldy universe of documents similarity identifier component operates to determine that there is a small subset of potentially similar documents already archived against which data reduction component should attempt to apply differencing compression.

Referring to in order to increase the efficiency of processing one or more pieces of content such as in a file transfer file synchronization or file back up or de duplication process data reduction component operates on one or more pieces of content to be processed to minimize an amount of data representing the respective content.

In one aspect for example data reduction component eliminates redundancy in one or more pieces of content to be processed based on determining one or more same data components or different data components or both between content to be processed and other known content in system . Known content may include but is not limited to types of content such as content previously stored in a database or archived in a file server content previously retrieved content previously transmitted content previously received or the one or more pieces of content to be processed . In this regard for example system may include one or any combination databases and or storage mechanisms operable to store known content .

Further in an aspect data reduction component may include one or more data compression protocols which eliminate the redundancy associated with one or more of the respective data components of the respective content to be processed . It should be noted that many data compression protocols may be operable with the described aspects with the one or more selected protocols being a user decision based on the particular data reduction scenario.

In one example of a use case involving a file transfer for example which should not be construed as limiting data reduction component may utilize one or more data compression protocols operable to identify similarities or differences a within a file b between files that are being transferred or c between files that have been previously transferred. For example techniques for a include LZW dictionary compression techniques for b include delta compression like the Unix diff command and techniques for c include remote file synchronization or remote differential compression similar to the Unix rsync program. It should be noted however that other techniques may be utilized and the present disclosure is not to be limited to the techniques listed in this example.

In an aspect in order to determine the existence of redundant information data reduction component or the respective data compression protocol may represent one or more portions of each piece of content to be processed and one or more portions of each piece of known content with a hash a fingerprint a signature etc. and then determine a distance e.g. a similarity or a difference between the respective portions of the content based on comparing the respective hashes fingerprints signatures etc. One of the challenges faced by data reduction component however is applying such data reduction protocols to a large universe of content in an efficient manner with respect to one or a combination of processor usage memory usage file system utilization network bandwidth utilization etc. In many cases such protocols become infeasible or sub optimal especially when content having a very large size or very large number of content such as 1000s or 100 000s of potentially very large pieces of content or both are being processed e.g. transmitted or stored over a period of time or when the processing has a time critical constraint and or a processing or memory constraint. In other words the required comparison of signatures performed by data reduction component or data compression protocol may be so large that it takes an unacceptable amount of usage of one or more of time memory network bandwidth or processing resource to achieve a result. Advantageously system includes similarity identifier component to reduce the burden on data reduction component and in some cases to actually make data reduction feasible.

As such using the identified potentially similar content data reduction component is operable to identify and or generate one or more reduced data representations corresponding to the one or more content to be processed . For example in one aspect reduced data representation represents all or some portion of content to be processed where reduced data component has a smaller data size than the original content based on removing redundant data. In one case for example reduced data representation includes one or more tokens each representing an already known data component. In one aspect for example token may be a pointer to a location of the respective data component within the system or at the destination of the processing activity and may further indicate a relationship to one or more of the original data components or to the original content to be processed . In another case for example reduced data representation may include only different data components identified between content to be processed and known content . For example in a case where the content to be processed includes a plurality of digital files to be transferred reduced data representation may only or may primarily include new data components not previously known or available to the destination. In another aspect reduced data representation includes new unknown or different data combined with one or more tokens representing known data. Thus reduced data representation has a memory size less than a memory size of the original content to be processed .

Further it should be noted that data reduction component may be utilized at any time during any of the processing of system . For example besides analyzing content to be processed and a subset of known content having potential similarities therewith data reduction component may also first analyze the content to be processed . For example if system includes a plurality of content to be processed data reduction component may execute to find same data components or different data components among the plurality of content to be processed to generate a reduced data set of content to be processed. As such the reduced data set of content to be processed may be operated on by similarity identifier component to avoid redundancies in the operation of finding potential similarities with other known content .

Referring system may optionally include a workflow job tracking system to manage and track the workflow processing of one or more pieces of content or files. For example in one aspect workflow job tracking system may include one or more workflow processes or jobs which each define one or more processes for one or more pieces of content or files. Further workflow job tracking system may include a container identifier which includes for example a name or number that uniquely identifies a piece of content for each piece of content associated with each workflow process job . For example in one aspect container identifier may correspond to all or a portion of container metadata . Additionally workflow job tracking system includes workflow processing metadata which defines a status of the processing of the content associated with each workflow process job . Workflow job tracking system maintains the relationships between one or more workflow processes or jobs container identifiers and the corresponding workflow processing metadata thereby enabling management of the processing performed and tracking the status of processing on each piece of content associated with each workflow process job .

In another optional aspect referring to system may also include a delivery management component operable to optimize the delivery of data corresponding to the respective content to be processed . In particular delivery management component may be called when content processing component initiates or involves the exchange of data corresponding to content to be processed such as in a file transfer of the content to be processed . For example in a desired file transfer of content to be processed or reduced data representation from a source to one or more destinations delivery management component may execute a data location identifier to determine if one or more of the respective data components involved in the file transfer may be found at any other alternative locations within system such as at another network based server or storage device. Further delivery management component may then execute a delivery optimizer module to determine a delivery efficiency for transmitting the respective data component from the identified alternate data location to the destination. The delivery efficiency may include but is note limited to a measure of bandwidth or throughput capacity or availability delivery time or both or any measure relating to delivery of data to a destination. Further delivery optimizer module includes path optimization logic operable to compare the available delivery options for transferring the data represented by content to be processed or reduced data representation to the desired one or more destinations. In particular delivery optimizer module may analyze the available bandwidth or throughput and or the estimated delivery time associated with each discovered path between an alternate data source for one or more respective data components and the respective destination and then generate data delivery instructions for one or more of the data components associated with content to be processed or reduced data representation to transfer one or more respective data components to the respective destination in the most efficient manner e.g. based on the most efficient delivery efficiency for each data component. For example if any portion of content to be processed or reduced data representation may be found at one or more network based servers or storage devices having a more efficient path to the destination than the original source then a data size of content to be processed or reduced data representation may be decreased even further by removing that data component thereby improving the efficiency of delivery of the remaining portion of content to be processed or reduced data representation from the original source to the destination. Further delivery management component allows each data component involved in a file transfer to be delivery in the most efficient fashion. In other words each destination may obtain various parts of content to be processed or reduced data representation from various locations within system wherein a delivery efficiency between the respective location and the respective destination is optimized to minimize the overall bandwidth usage or transfer time or both associated with obtaining of content to be processed or reduced data representation by the respective destination.

For example in the case of transferring a file from one location to another location in a different continent the network used to deliver the file has a bandwidth latency constraint that means it will take time to deliver the file across the relatively large distance. However similarity identification component can determine that a similar file was previously delivered to another location on that same remote continent. Data reduction component can identify one or more respective data components that are identical and generate reduced data component including one or more tokens and one or more different data components . As such delivery management component can determine whether each of the one or more tokens and or each of the one or more different data components are located elsewhere within system such as a location on that same remote continent. Further delivery management component can coordinate with the destination to obtain the respective tokens and or respective different data components from a respective closest location where each closest location minimizes the time it takes for the destination to obtain the respective information. For example one such closest location may be a location on the same continent that does not have the same bandwidth constraints. Thus delivery management component optimizes the overall transfer of the file to the destination utilizing workflow metadata to determine the potential for similarities of the different data components with data components already delivered to another location closer to the destination.

Additionally it should be noted that delivery management component may be resident at any computing device within system . For example in one aspect delivery management component may be incorporated into a server that also operates data reduction component and similarity identifier component .

Referring to each of the computing devices or components of system may generally take the form of or be included in a device such as computing device . Computing device may include any type of computer user terminal workstation etc. Further computing device may include a user interface operable to enable interaction with one or more components of a computer platform resident on the device. It should be noted however that computing device may not include user interface but instead the operation of computing device may be defined by configuration files workflow rules etc. stored in the computing device.

User interface may include an input device operable to generate and or receive an input into the device and an output device operable to generate and or present information for consumption by a user of the device. For example input device may include at least one device such as a keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Output device may generate a graphical user interface a sound a feeling such as a vibration etc.

Further computer platform is operable to execute one or more application modules to provide functionality to the device. For example each application module may include data and or logic corresponding to one or more of the functionalities described herein including one or more of data processing component data reduction component similarity identifier component or delivery management component . Additionally application module may include MASSTRANSIT logic as described below.

Further computer platform may include memory for storing data and applications. For example memory may include one or more of volatile and nonvolatile memory portions such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include active memory and storage memory including an electronic file system and any secondary and or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape soft and or hard disk and removable memory components.

Further computer platform may also include processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device.

Further processor or other logic such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident software components or client applications such as application module in memory . API may be a runtime environment executing on the respective computing device.

Computer platform may further include a communications module which enables communications among the various components of computing device and between computing device and any other communication devices via a shared communications pathway such as any of networks and or . Communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof and may further include all protocols for use in intra device and inter device communications.

For example in one aspect communications module is operable to receive content workflow metadata corresponding to content to be processed wherein the content to be processed includes a data component and wherein the content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to the data component. Additionally communications module is further operable to receive known content workflow metadata corresponding to a first plurality of known content wherein each known content includes a known data component and wherein the known content workflow metadata represents workflow processing information corresponding to each respective known data component. Also communications module is further operable to transmit or receive the reduced data representation.

Referring to in one aspect that should not be construed as limiting a method of identifying potentially similar content for data reduction may optionally include receiving instructions on content to be processed Block . The instructions may include receiving an identification of the content to be processed as well as instructions on what process or processes to be performed on the file. For example the instructions may include details on performing a file transfer a file back up a database de duplication a file synchronization etc.

The method may also optionally include performing a potential similarity identification and or a data reduction on the content to be processed Block . In the case of a plurality of content to be processed the data reduction operation may identify the same or identical data components and or different data components between the respective content to be processed in order to reduce a data size of the content and thereby increase the efficiency of the subsequent processing operation. In some further optional aspects the data reduction operation may further involve breaking down the content to be processed into a smaller subset of content to be processed based on potential similarities between the respective content according to the corresponding workflow processing metadata associated with the respective content to be processed. Additionally it should be noted that the method may only include the action of Block and the other described actions may be optional.

Further the method includes receiving content workflow metadata corresponding to respective content to be processed Block . The content workflow metadata is associated with the processing of the respective content within a workflow process or job which may be managed or tracked by a workflow job tracking system. The content workflow metadata may be requested or accessed from the workflow job tracking system or may be accessed from another server or storage device holding the data or may be embedded within or otherwise linked to the content to be processed.

The method additionally includes identifying a potential similarity between the content to be processed and known content based on content workflow metadata Block . The potential similarity defines a possibility of similar data components existing between the content to be processed and one or more of a plurality of known contents within the system. Further this action utilizes content workflow processing metadata as a filter to quickly sort through a possibly large number of possibly large size contents thereby developing a more manageable list of candidate contents having a potential to have similarities with one or more of the content to be processed. Such filtering may be especially powerful in a content workflow environment where workflow processes may tend to lead to other relationships between contents or data components of contents. As a result of this action the universe of known contents can be reduced to a subset of a lesser number of the plurality known contents that potentially match with a subset of the content to be processed thereby improving efficiencies in later operations designed to find similarities or differences between the two groups of content.

The method further includes outputting the identification of the potentially similar content for use in reducing the data content of the content to be processed Block . In some aspects the potential similarity may be output as an identification of the subset of the plurality of known contents having a determined similarity with the content to be processed according to analysis of the respective content workflow metadata. In other aspects outputting the potential similarity may be output as an identification of corresponding data components having a similarity or a likelihood of a similarity. In yet other aspect outputting the determined potential similarity may include outputting an identification or representation of the reduced data component. In still other aspects outputting the determined potential similarity may include outputting an identification of at least one of a similar data component or a different data component thereby allowing determination of a reduced data component.

Optionally the method may further include performing a data reduction between one or more contents to be processed and the potentially similar contents Block . The data reduction may include using one or more data compression protocols to eliminate redundant data in one or more contents to be processed where the redundant data is already part of one or more known contents. In other words the data reduction involves reducing a data size of the one or more contents to be processed by eliminating data components that are the same as known data component or replacing them with representative information having a substantially smaller data size.

Optionally the method may additionally include processing the resulting reduced data representation of the content to be processed Block . The processing may include a content transfer a data synchronization a database de duplication or any other type of activity where reducing a data size of the respective content would result in an increase in efficiency of operation.

Additionally when dealing with a large number contents to be processed for example hundreds of files and or where such contents have a relatively large size for example including but not limited to a size greater than 50 MB it should be noted that the above method may include one or both of the content similarity based on workflow metadata determination and the data reduction activity prior to comparison with known documents and subsequent data reduction and other optional processing activities.

Referring to in one sample use case which should not be construed as limiting the apparatus and methods discussed herein may be utilized in a file transfer environment . In particular a source node and a destination node and or may include one or more computing devices such as computing device which include file transfer logic that may be executed to effect a transfer of one or more files from source node to one or more destination nodes and or . For example content processing component at source node may transfer one or more content to be processed to one or more computing device s and or content processing component not shown at destination node and or . In one aspect the file transfer logic may include the MASSTRANSIT advanced file transfer and remote workflow software solution available from Group Logic Incorporated of Arlington Va. With reference to for example content processing component may include file transfer logic .

The MASSTRANSIT solution includes a file transfer engine that runs on source node and destination node and or . Further the MASSTRANSIT solution may include a corresponding file database or file system that tracks file transfer activity including one or more of files that need to be sent files that are being sent files previously sent files being received or files previously received. The file database includes information about each respective file such as a file identifier and a pointer to the location of the file in the system. For example the file may be stored at any repository associated with the system. Additionally the system includes file workflow metadata corresponding to the files. The file workflow metadata may be stored locally by the MASSTRANSIT file database and or at another file server connected thereto not shown and or in a database of a connected workflow job tracking system and or embedded within or otherwise linked to the files. Prior to the present solution data compression techniques would need to be performed on each of the files to be transferred and on each of the other known files in the system for example to obtain a fingerprint of all or some portion of each file and then all of such fingerprints would need to be compared to determine matching data content. Advantageously the MASSTRANSIT solution is operable to utilize the workflow metadata of the files to be transferred to reduce the number of known files to a smaller number of known files potentially similar to respective ones of the files to be transferred. As such the data compression operations can be scaled down to be performed on the identified potentially similar known files and also can be scaled down to be performed on the corresponding ones of the files to be transferred rather than on all of the files to be transferred. Thus efficiencies are gained by reducing one or more of the memory usage the processing usage the network traffic the usage of file system bandwidth etc. in order to determine matching data as the data reduction operation can focus on the identified potentially similar known files which is a subset of all of the known files and the corresponding potentially similar ones of the files to be transferred which may be a subset of all of the files to be transferred.

Additionally in the aspect of the devices and components of environment may communicate via wired or wireless connections to one or more communication networks and or . For example communication networks and or may include one or more of a local area network LAN a wide area networks WAN an enterprise network a private network a public network such as the Internet or any other type of network operable to communicate information.

Further in some aspects content processing component may be further associated with a user terminal for carrying out operations on one or more of the respective content such as content to be processed . However as noted above content processing component may be an automated process that does not include user terminal . For example in a user driven case content processing component may run or have access to a graphical user interface GUI generated by a client application. The GUI allows the user to create or modify content as well as initiate the further processing of content such as a file transfer based on operation of similarity identifier component and data reduction component .

It should be noted that in node may not be a destination but instead may be an alternate network location. In particular delivery management module may instruct destination node to obtain one or more data components involved in the file transfer from network location if the path between network location and destination node results in optimizing the file transfer as described above.

Additionally it should be noted that while workflow job tracking system is illustrated as being an independent node off of communication network system may be located anywhere within environment or at multiple locations within environment . Further it should be noted that workflow job tracking system may not exist at all in environment .

Optionally environment may additionally include an intermediate destination . For example intermediate destination may be a perimeter network or a demilitarized zone DMZ server. A DMZ server may be used to protect the resources of one network such as an enterprise LAN from exposure to another network such as the public Internet. In another aspect intermediate server may be a forwarding server which is server set up by an enterprise to centralize all inbound and outbound file transfers. Although illustrated as being located between source node and communication network such as the Internet intermediate destination may be located elsewhere or more than one intermediate destination may be used.

Referring to in one example of the operation of such a system content processing component at source node initiates a file transfer at Event . The file transfer may be initiated by any one of a variety of actions including but not limited to copying files to a hot folder of a file system server using a web program or other automated program to queue files or programmatically kicking off transfers from an automated system. As such at Event files are copied to the file system server or are identified in the system at Event as being files to transfer to one or more destination nodes such as nodes and or . For example at Event computing device configured with MASSTRANSIT logic receives a request for performing the file transfer. The request to perform the transfer is the same as part of or based on the action of initiating the file transfer in Event .

Further at Event MASSTRANSIT logic obtains the workflow metadata for the files to be transferred. For example in one aspect MASSTRANSIT logic obtains the workflow metadata from one or more local data repositories such the file database or file system of the files to be transferred. In another aspect referring to Events and MASSTRANSIT logic obtains the workflow metadata from workflow job tracking system . For example at Event MASSTRANSIT logic sends an identification of the files to be transferred to workflow job tracking system . At Event workflow job tracking system retrieves the workflow metadata corresponding to the identified files and forwards the respective workflow metadata to MASSTRANSIT logic at Event . Alternately it should be noted that the workflow metadata may be stored in file system or file database of the respective computing device such as in one or more databases storing files sent files received etc.

At Event MASSTRANSIT logic forwards the workflow metadata for the files to be transferred to destination . In an alternate aspect not depicted MASSTRANSIT logic forwards the workflow metadata for the files to be transferred to an intermediate destination which in turn forwards the information to destination node .

At Event a corresponding computing device configured with MASSTRANSIT logic at destination node utilizes the received file workflow metadata for the files to be transferred to identify known files having a potential similarity with the files to be transferred based on a comparison of respective file workflow metadata. The result of this operation is a set of known files having a potential similarity to a corresponding identified set of files to be transferred e.g. potentially similar content . In one aspect for example the potentially similar content comprises a subset of the content to be processed or respective data component thereof and a corresponding subset of the plurality of known content or respective data component thereof having a respective potential similarity. In some aspects the identified set of known files having the potential similarity includes less than all of the known files available to destination . Further in some aspects the corresponding identified set of files to be transferred having potentially similar content to the identified known set of files includes less than all of the files to be transferred.

At Event destination node sends a request to MASSTRANSIT logic of source node to send a signature hash or some other mechanism for determining identical content in data reduction corresponding to one or more portions of each of the identified potentially similar ones of the set of files to be transferred. At Event MASSTRANSIT logic of source node obtains or computes one or more signatures for each of the potentially similar ones of the files to be transferred and then transmits each signature to destination node at Event . At Event destination obtains or computes one or more signatures for each of the set of known files having a potential similarity based file workflow metadata as determined at Event .

At Event destination node determines whether or not any identical data components exist based on comparing the signatures hashes etc. corresponding to the two sets. In one aspect for example identification of at least one of a same data component or a different data component between the content to be processed and the plurality of known content is based on execution of a data compression protocol on the potentially similar content by a data reduction component.

At Event if the comparison determines that identical data components exist then destination node sends MASSTRANSIT logic of source node a message not to include the identical data components in the file transfer. For example the identical components may be replaced by a token representing one or more of the identical data components.

At Event if the comparison determines that different data components exist then destination node sends MASSTRANSIT logic of source node a message to include the different data components in the file transfer.

As such a data size of the file transfer may be substantially reduced by eliminating the need to send data components already known by destination node .

Further at Event MASSTRANSIT logic of source node processes the received messages of Events and and sends the requested files or portions of files e.g. the different data components and tokens representing known content otherwise referred to as the reduced data representation to destination node .

At Event destination node receives the reduced data representation of the original files for transfer and performs one or more of the operations of updating its database with the received different data components. It should be noted that instead of including the identified different data components the reduced data component may instead include instructions on obtaining such different data components from another network location such as alternate location having a more efficient path as discussed above with regard to delivery management component .

Optionally at Event destination node may send an acknowledgement message to MASSTRANSIT logic of source node to confirm receipt of or report an error in receiving the reduced data representation. For example if an error occurred then MASSTRANSIT logic of source node may attempt to resend all or a part of the reduced data representation.

At Event either based on the transmission of reduced data component from MASSTRANSIT logic of source node or upon receipt of acknowledgement message MASSTRANSIT logic of source node updates a file database or file server with appropriate file workflow metadata defining the completed file transfer. Alternately or in addition at Event MASSTRANSIT logic of source node may inform workflow job tracking system of the file transfer thereby allowing workflow job tracking database to update its records at Event .

It should be understood that this is merely one example process flow. Other example flows may occur in different sequences and different operations may occur at different system components.

For example in one alternative referring to the determination of potential similarity e.g. Event may occur on the sending side of the file transfer e.g. at source node resulting in the sending side requesting signatures hashes etc. of the potentially similar known files from the destination node or from some other network location identified by similarity identifier component as having the potentially similar known files. For example MASSTRANSIT logic of source node may consult one or more file servers or file databases which may include for example workflow processing metadata of files previously transferred and or previously received for comparison with the workflow processing metadata of the files to be transferred. Subsequently in one aspect the determination of identical data components e.g. Events and may then be made at the sending side e.g. at source node . Alternatively the determination of identical data components may be performed at destination node as illustrated by dashed Events and . In any case the processing results in the transfer of the reduced data representation to one or more destination nodes.

Further in other alternatives it should be understood that intermediate destination may be involved in all communications between MASSTRANSIT logic of any node such as source node and or destination node and or and any other network connection such as any connection to a respective destination node and or workflow job tracking system .

Additionally it should be understood that the functional operations may be performed at one computing device or distributed across any number of computing devices in communication with the system.

In one more example of a use case involving a file transfer which should not be construed as limiting the content to be processed may be content corresponding to an issue of a magazine for a given month. For example the content to be processed may be thousands of digital files such as digital files relating to one or more of an Adobe InDesign layout photographs advertisements fonts and any other data component of the given issue of the respective magazine. The corresponding workflow metadata for the content may include for example information describing the content and or describing the workflow processing of the content. In this case the known content may be a prior issue of the magazine or another language version of the magazine or both each having corresponding known content workflow metadata. As such according to the apparatus and methods described herein based on matching the workflow metadata to identify a similarity based on the respective magazine the entire plurality of known content can be narrowed down to the known content corresponding to the prior issue of the magazine or the other language version or both of the magazine. For example this may reduce the known content from millions of digital files down to thousands of digital files associated with the prior issue of the magazine or the other language version or both of the magazine. Further the thousands of content to be processed may be narrowed down to a smaller subset based on the matching of the workflow metadata. As a result the data reduction operations can be more efficiently performed or can become feasible by allowing the data reduction to be performed on this reduced set of content to be processed and known content identified as having potentially similar content based on workflow metadata.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect unless stated otherwise.

