---

title: Fifth wheel hitch assembly
abstract: Fifth wheel hitch assemblies and fifth wheel hitch adaptors for dampening differential motion between a fifth wheel trailer and a tow vehicle. An upper assembly is formed as a box with an open bottom, and a lower assembly has front, rear, and side plates that extend into the open bottom of the upper assembly. Slide plates are disposed on the front and sides of the upper assembly facing at the front and side plates of the lower assembly. An additional slide plate is disposed on the rear plate of the lower assembly and faces the rear of the upper assembly. The lower assembly and upper assembly are attached to one another by an airspring and at least two diagonally opposed shock absorbers mounted therebetween. A locking mechanism may be included to prevent overextension between the upper assembly and lower assembly when not in use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07703793&OS=07703793&RS=07703793
owner: 
number: 07703793
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070316
---
The present invention relates generally to apparatuses for the coupling of towed vehicles to lead vehicles. More specifically this invention relates to a fifth wheel hitch assembly that provides improved towing conditions through the inclusion of motion compensating components including a pneumatic airspring.

Fifth wheel trailers are generally large high profile trailers. They are typically coupled to a lead vehicle such as a pick up or flat bed truck by a fifth wheel connector assembly mounted on a frame within the bed of the truck so that the fifth wheel connector is disposed in a plane above that of the bed of the truck. Most such couplers are secured to the bed of the truck. Such permanent attachment of the coupler is problematic when the truck bed is needed for other purposes such as cargo loading or camper carrying. A typical coupled hitch is not desirable since the connector assembly and frame usually take up a significant amount of space. Moreover the removal of the assembly and frame from the truck bed typically requires an inordinate amount of time and effort.

Previous efforts to provide a mechanism for coupling allow a fifth wheel to be attached to a ball hitch such as a goose neck hitch disposed at the rear of a tow vehicle or in the bed of a pick up or flat bed truck in order to avoid the use of a fifth wheel hitch utilizing a significant amount of space in the bed of the tow vehicle. Examples of such adaptors include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 240 740 6 024 372 6 416 073 and 6 776 431 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein. Typically each of these devices consists of a top structure for connecting to a fifth wheel trailer a frame extending downwards from the top structure and a bottom structure for attaching to a ball hitch. While the frames may have a height adjustment since they are simply metal boxes these adaptors do not compensate for load conditions or road conditions which can create discomfort for the driver and passenger when towing and place unnecessary wear and tear on the components.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 785 341 which is incorporated by reference herein discloses a pneumatic isolator for use in attaching a trailer to a tow vehicle. An airspring is vertically mounted atop a tube extending down to the attachment hitch. The airspring compensates for the up and down motion of the trailer and tow vehicle as the tube slides in an outer tube. A single external shock absorber is used to connect the inner tube to the outer tube and to compensate for the reverse motion of the airspring. Although this design compensates for up and down motion it does not adequately compensate for forward reverse or lateral forces acting on the hitch during towing. It also requires permanent attachment to the fifth wheel trailer preventing the fifth wheel trailer from being used with a standard fifth wheel hitch.

As such an improved fifth wheel hitch adaptor that enables a fifth wheel trailer to be attached to a retractable kingpin located in the bed of a tow vehicle or attached to a hidden coupler mounted under the tow vehicle bed and that compensates for forces from multiple directions during towing would be an improvement in the art. Such an adaptor that was releasably attachable would be a further improvement in the art.

In one embodiment the present invention includes a fifth wheel hitch assembly with motion isolation characteristics for dampening differential motion between a fifth wheel trailer and a tow vehicle. An upper assembly may be formed as a box with an open bottom that is attached to a trailer. A lower assembly that has front rear and side plates that extend into the open bottom of the upper assembly and may be attached to a tow vehicle. Slide plates are disposed on the front and sides of the upper assembly facing the front and side plates of the lower assembly. An additional slide plate is disposed on the rear plate of the lower assembly and faces the rear of the upper assembly. In one embodiment the lower assembly and upper assembly are attached to one another by an airspring and at least two diagonally opposed shock absorbers mounted therebetween. A locking mechanism may be included to prevent overextension between the upper assembly and lower assembly when not in use. Other embodiments include fifth wheel hitch adaptors.

It will be appreciated that the embodiments described herein while illustrative are not intended to so limit the invention or the scope of the appended claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that various combinations or modifications of the embodiments presented herein may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Referring now to an embodiment of a fifth wheel hitch assembly in accordance with the principles of the present invention is depicted. Assembly includes an upper assembly and a lower assembly . Upper assembly may be formed as a framework or as an enclosed box with an open bottom. In one embodiment upper assembly may include a top plate which can be placed adjacent to a standard fifth wheel trailer kingpin box T. Kingpin K of the fifth wheel trailer kingpin box T may pass through an opening in top plate . Upper assembly may be secured to trailer kingpin box T by securing fasteners such as bolts and nuts through aligned openings in the top plate and the kingpin box T.

Where upper assembly is formed as an enclosed box a rear wall extends down from top plate near a rear edge thereof. As depicted the upper assembly may extend at a frontward angle before bending to descend in a more perpendicular fashion. In embodiments that include such a bend in upper assembly rear wall may include a bend as part of such a shape. Rear wall may be formed from two separate plates joined at bend by a seam such as a weld or be attached to a metal framework having such a shape as a covering. Rear wall extends downwards to the open bottom of upper assembly .

Front wall extends down from top plate near a front edge thereof. In embodiments that include a bend in upper assembly front wall may include a bend corresponding to bend in rear wall . Front wall may be formed from two separate plates joined at bend by a seam such as a weld or be attached to a metal framework having such a shape as a covering. Front wall extends downwards to the open bottom of upper assembly .

Adjacent to the open bottom of upper assembly a front slide plate is positioned on the inner surface of front wall . Front slide plate may have a generally planar back surface which may be attached to front wall . The exposed front surface of front slide plate will have a generally convex cross sectional shape sloping from a relatively thicker midsection to relatively thinner upper and lower edges. Front slide plate may be constructed from a high density polymer such a polyethylene or from any other material known to those of skill in the art to have a high durability and a fairly low coefficient of friction.

Two side walls and may extend downwards from top plate near the opposite side edges thereof to the open bottom of upper assembly . Each side wall or may extend from front wall to rear wall and be attached thereto by a seam such as a weld. Where upper assembly includes an internal framework the side walls and may be attached to the framework. It will be appreciated that walls and of upper assembly may also be formed from larger pieces that are bent and cut to the desired shapes rather than from individual metal plates that are welded together.

Adjacent to the open bottom of upper assembly side slide plates and are positioned on the inner surfaces of side walls and respectively . Similar to front slide plate the exposed front surfaces of each side slide plate or will have a generally convex cross sectional shape sloping from a relatively thicker midsection to relatively thinner upper and lower edges. Each side slide plate or may be constructed from a high density polymer such a polyethylene or from any other material known to those of skill in the art to have a high durability and a fairly low coefficient of friction.

An upper attachment plate may be provided in upper assembly to allow an airspring discussed in detail further herein to be attached thereto. Additionally two or more upper mounts and for the attachment of shock absorbers FS and RS may be present. These structures will be discussed in detail further herein.

Kingpin retainer includes a body which may be formed as a metal block. Body passes through rear wall A via passage and into the interior of upper assembly A. Body may be secured to an internal metal framework where present. Body may be formed as a rectangular body having a planar top bottom and sides. A slot passes through the center of body from a front wall and may include an enlarged rear portion adjacent to end wall for allowing a kingpin K of a fifth wheel trailer kingpin box T to pass therethrough. The sidewalls of slot may be planar or may include insets which receive sliding lock block therein. A threaded shaft passes through an opening in front wall such that a proximal end thereof is disposed outside rear wall A. The distal portion of threaded shaft extends through slot with the distal end thereof disposed at or near enlarged portion . Threaded shaft threadably engages sliding block extending through a threaded passage therein such that rotation of the threaded shaft causes sliding block to move in a proximal or distal direction along slot . Proximal end of threaded shaft may be configured to facilitate rotation of the threaded shaft by having a square or polygonal cross section in order to receive a wrench or other turning device or may be shaped as a handle.

In use upper assembly A may be secured to a trailer by passing kingpin K of a fifth wheel hitch into the enlarged rear portion of slot in body which may include passing the kingpin through an opening in upper plate A. Threaded shaft is rotated to move slidable block against a slot S in kingpin K. Shaft may be turned until kingpin K is secured in body by block joining trailer T to assembly A. To release kingpin K rotation of shaft is reversed causing block to move away from kingpin K.

Kingpin retainer C includes a body C which may be formed as a metal block. Body passes through rear wall C via passage C and into the interior of upper assembly C. Body C may be secured to an internal metal framework where present. Body C may be formed as a rectangular body having a planar top bottom and sides. A slot C passes through the center of body C from a front wall C and may include an enlarged rear portion C adjacent to end wall C for allowing a kingpin K of a fifth wheel trailer kingpin box T to pass therethrough. The sidewalls of slot C may be planar. A threaded shaft C passes through an opening in front wall C such that a proximal end C thereof is disposed outside rear wall C. A keeper C is attached at the proximal end of shaft C and may allow for its rotation. The distal portion of threaded shaft C extends through slot C with the distal end thereof directed towards enlarged portion C. Threaded shaft C threadably engages a fixed block C extending through a threaded passage C therein such that rotation of the threaded shaft C causes the distal end thereof to move in a proximal or distal direction along slot C fixed block C may be attached to body C or to a framework inside upper assembly C.

In use upper assembly C may be secured to a trailer by passing kingpin K of a fifth wheel hitch into the enlarged rear portion C of slot C in body C which may include passing the kingpin through an opening in upper plate C. Threaded shaft C is rotated to move against a slot S in kingpin K. Shaft C may be turned until kingpin K is secured in body C. To release kingpin K rotation of shaft C is reversed.

Of course it will be appreciated that in some embodiments the upper assembly may be directly connected to a trailer frame eliminating the need for connection structures therebetween. For example depict embodiments where the upper assembly is attached directly to a trailer frame F. It will be appreciated that in each of these embodiment the upper assembly is shorter allowing the kingpin K disposed on the bottom surface of the hitch assemblies to be mounted to a standard fifth wheel hitch disposed ion the bed of a truck as will be explained further herein.

Returning to and also referring to the depicted embodiment of a fifth wheel hitch assembly includes a lower assembly . Lower assembly includes a lower plate . Lower plate may be formed of metal and include an opening through which a kingpin K may be inserted. Kingpin K may be a retractable kingpin disposed in the bed of a pick up or flat bed truck may be disposed on a fifth wheel hitch adaptor in the bed of a tow vehicle or may be disposed at the rear of a tow vehicle on a ball hitch. Lower plate may have a generally square or rectangular space with smooth upper and lower surfaces.

A rear plate is attached near the rear edge of lower plate and extends upwards in a perpendicular fashion therefrom. Rear plate may be formed from metal and attached to lower plate by welding. Rear plate extends into the open bottom of upper assembly behind rear wall . A rear gap G is formed between rear wall and rear plate .

A rear slide plate is positioned on the rear surface of rear plate at least partially within gap G. Rear slide plate may have a back surface adjacent rear plate to which it is attached. The exposed front surface of rear slide plate has a generally convex cross sectional shape sloping from a relatively thicker midsection to relatively thinner upper and lower edges. Front surface faces the rear surface of rear wall . As with front slide plate and side slide plates and rear slide plate may be constructed from a high density polymer such a polyethylene or from any other material known to those of skill in the art to have a high durability and a fairly low coefficient of friction.

A front plate is attached near the front edge of lower plate and extends upwards therefrom. Front plate extends into the open bottom of upper assembly behind front wall . A gap is formed between front plate and front wall such that front slide plate at least partially is contained therein. In contrast to rear plate front plate does not extend upwards in a generally perpendicular fashion but slopes inwards away from front wall . This may be accomplished by having front plate extend perpendicularly upwards for an initial segment then taper inwards toward its distal end. Front plate may be formed from metal and attached to lower plate by welding.

Two side plates and are attached near each side edge of lower plate and extend upwards therefrom. Each side plate or extends into the open bottom of upper assembly inside and adjacent to a respective side wall or . A gap is formed between each side plate and its adjacent side wall such that a side slide plate or at least partially is disposed therein. Similar to front plate each side plate or may slope inwards away from the adjacent side wall or as it extends upward. Each side plate and may be formed from metal and attached to lower plate by welding.

Open corner spaces and are formed above lower plate by the edges of front plate side plates and and rear plate . In some embodiments open corner spaces and can reduce potential binding of the assembly during use. In other embodiments the movement of the upper assembly and lower assembly may be facilitated by the placement of a wheel assembly in each of the open corner spaces as will be discussed further herein with .

Referring to there is depicted a sectional view of another embodiment of a fifth wheel hitch assembly A includes a lower assembly A. Lower assembly A includes a lower plate A. Extending from lower plate A is a kingpin K. Kingpin K may be used to couple the assembly A to a fifth wheel hitch adaptor in the bed of a tow vehicle.

Additionally lower assembly A includes four wheel assemblies placed in each of the open corner spaces. Each wheel assembly may consist of a wheel mount . Wheel mount may be used to attach the wheel assembly to lower plate A or may be used to attach the wheel assembly in the corner space between the side plate and the front or rear plate depending on the corner . An axle may be attached to wheel mount . Wheel rotates around axle and may include a bearing assembly for smoother operation. For example each wheel may be a sealed bearing wheel. Wheel may be formed from a high density polymer such a polyethylene or from any other material known to those of skill in the art to have a high durability and a fairly low coefficient of friction. The surface of wheel may be in contact with the interior of the corresponding corner of upper assembly A and facilitate movement of the upper and lower assemblies A and A with respect to one another.

Returning to a lower attachment plate may be provided in lower assembly to allow an airspring discussed in detail further herein to be attached thereto. Lower attachment plate may be formed as a plate extending from side plate to side plate or from front plate to rear plate or both. Additionally two or more lower mounts and for the attachment of shock absorbers FS and RS may be present. These structures will be discussed in detail further herein.

Upper assembly is attached to lower assembly by motion compensating structures. Airspring is secured to upper attachment plate and to lower attachment plate and in use compensates for the independent motion of forces on the tow vehicle and the trailer by absorbing forces and allowing upper assembly and lower assembly to move with respect to one another.

Airspring may be an airbag designed for use as a spring in automotive train tractor trailer and other vehicular suspension systems. Typically airsprings may include a bellows attached to one or more plates. Physical connections may be made to the plates or the pistons of the airbags through connection bolts disposed therein to secure airspring to upper and lower attachment plates and . Currently airsprings are available in reversible sleeve piston and single double or triple convoluted conformations any of which may be used with embodiments of the present invention. Suitable airsprings are available from FIRESTONE and other suspension component manufacturers. These may be used in the present invention as well.

It will be appreciated that airspring may be considered a pneumatic spring configured as a column of gas air confined within a container. The pressure of the confined gas and not the structure of the container acts as the force medium of the spring. A wide variety of sizes and configurations of airsprings are available including sleeve type airsprings bellows type airsprings convoluted type airsprings rolling lobe airsprings etc. Such airsprings are commonly used in both vehicular and industrial applications. Airsprings regardless of their size and configuration share many common elements. In general an airspring includes a flexible sleeve like member made of fabric reinforced rubber that defines the sidewall of an inflatable container. Each end of the flexible member is closed by an enclosure element such as a bead plate that is attached to the flexible member by crimping. The uppermost enclosure element typically also includes air supply components and mounting elements e.g. studs blind nuts brackets pins etc. to couple the airspring to a desired structure. The lowermost enclosure element also typically includes mounting elements to couple the airspring to a desired structure. Examples of airsprings are set forth and discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 957 806 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

As depicted in airspring includes a fitting to which an air hose and a valve may be functionally attached. These structures may be used to inflate and deflate airspring . Valve may include an exhaust or a separate exhaust may be included for deflation of airspring . Valve may be attached to a gas source such as an air compressor or a tank holding compressed air. In some embodiments valve may be a standard needle valve such as that used on automobile tires and the gas source may be an air compressor or other air pump that is temporarily connected to valve for adjustment of the pressure in airspring .

Shock absorbers FS and RS are conventional dampening shock absorbers mounted between upper mounts and of upper assembly and lower mounts and of lower assembly . Each of the upper and lower mounts may be formed as a set of mounting ears each of which includes an aperture. A pin may be extended through the apertures in each of the ears and through a portion of shock absorber FS or RS.

As depicted shock absorbers FS and RS are disposed on diagonally opposite corners of upper and lower assemblies and . In some embodiments two shock absorbers may be used disposed in such a diagonally opposite arrangement. In other embodiments four shock absorbers may be used one disposed near each of the four corners of the assemblies.

Turning to an alternative motion compensating structure is depicted in a hitch assembly B. In place of an airspring and opposite shock absorbers FS and RS a single central resilient member is secured to upper attachment plate and to lower attachment plate and in use compensates for the independent motion of forces on the tow vehicle and the trailer by absorbing forces and allowing upper assembly and lower assembly to move with respect to one another. Resilient member may be a rubber bushing or a coil spring having sufficient resiliency to absorb the forces placed upon it infuse.

A single central shock absorber CS may be mounted between the upper assembly and lower assembly and be disposed through a central aperture in the resilient member . Central chock absorber CS may be a conventional dampening shock absorber.

Turning to a locking mechanism for attaching the lower assembly to a kingpin K disposed in the bed of a pick up or other tow vehicle is depicted. Also depicted is a counterpart mechanism for preventing the overextension of the fifth wheel hitch assembly due to pressure in airspring during attachment and detachment of the assembly to a tow vehicle. A number of the components of assembly are omitted from these figures to allow the components of the locking mechanism to be more clearly understood.

Locking mechanism includes a kingpin arm formed as an elongated member having a proximal end terminating in handle that may include a locking device such as a cotter pin to prevent inadvertent detachment from a kingpin K. Kingpin arm also includes a kingpin saddle formed as an arc shaped section that engages a slot S of a kingpin K. A distal end of kingpin arm is attached to lower assembly . Kingpin arm may be pivotally manipulated with respect to the distal end to move kingpin saddle in and out of contact with kingpin K. Return spring acts to retain kingpin arm in position against kingpin K when present acting as a positive locking mechanism.

Two locking tabs and each disposed on an opposite side of lower assembly are connected to linkage such that locking tabs and move when the kingpin arm is pivotally manipulated. It will be appreciated that although linkage is depicted as several components between kingpin arm and locking tabs and any suitable linkage known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be used so long as the linkage is able to move locking tabs and as desired upon movement of the kingpin arm . It will also be appreciated that locking tabs and may be moved by a separate control as by handles allowing the tabs to be slidably moved without connection to kingpin arm via a linkage system.

As best depicted in a receiving member is attached to a mount on upper assembly and interacts with locking tab . Although not depicted in a counterpart structure on the opposite side of hitch assembly interacts with locking tab . Receiving member includes an elongated body and a number of receiving shelves . Each of the receiving shelves may be spaced apart along the vertical axis of the body of receiving member facing towards locking tab . Prior to release of hitch assembly from a lower kingpin K locking tab is slidably moved to engage a receiving shelf on receiving member . The opposite locking tab is similarly engaged with an opposite receiving member. Slidable movement of locking tabs and may be caused by linkage or by actuation of other control handles attached to locking tabs and . The distal end of locking tab resides in the receiving shelf and the upper surface thereof abuts against the shelf preventing lower assembly from expanding downward away from upper assembly . As airspring exerts a downward force from the gas contained therein this prevents expansion of hitch assembly to allow hitch assembly to be removed from attachment to the tow vehicle.

In use the hitch assemblies or of the present invention compensation for different motions of a tow vehicle and a fifth wheel trailer. Upper assembly and lower assembly are able to move vertically with respect to one another as lower assembly slides upwardly and downwardly within upper assembly compressing and expanding airspring . Shock absorbers FS and RS dampen the travel of airspring . Additionally diagonally opposed shock absorbers FS and RS compensate for lateral and front to rear pitching motions of the trailer. Lower assembly and upper assembly are able to adjust such lateral movement as the plates of lower assembly and walls of upper assembly are capable of angular adjustment with respect to one another. As such motion occurs front plate and side plates and are able to slip across the convex front surfaces of sliding plates and and rear plate is able to slip across rear wall using the convex front surface of rear side plate . Similarly each wheel of the wheel assemblies spins facilitating the movement of upper assembly in relation to lower assembly .

It has been found that curved tops of front plate and side plates and facilitate this motion. Further placement of rear slide plate on rear plate rather than rear wall is preferred due to the rearward force typically acting across hitch assembly during towing. This compensation for lateral motion may improve towing ride and extend the life of the components compared to other known devices such as that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 024 372 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein which only compensate for motional differences in a single direction.

It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Various combinations and modifications of the embodiments described herein may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention and all modifications are meant to be included within the scope of the present invention. Thus while certain exemplary embodiments and details have been described for purposes of describing the invention it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in the invention described herein may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention which is defined in the appended claims.

