---

title: Selecting video portions where advertisements can't be inserted
abstract: Methods and apparatus provide for an insert deflector to provide a user (i.e. video editor) with greater control as to media enhancements applied to a user-created video. Specifically, the insert deflector provides blocking code for a portion of a media presentation created by the user. The blocking code is associated with an edit decision list that defines the media presentation. Via execution of the edit decision list to render the media presentation, the insert deflector applies the blocking code to prevent insertion of at least one media insert at the portion of the media presentation. A media insert can be an advertisement inserted into a user-created video, or an advertisement shown in conjunction with the playback of the video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442386&OS=08442386&RS=08442386
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08442386
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070621
---
Conventional technologies for presenting advertisements to potential customers provide a variety of mediums in which to present those advertisements. For example advertisements can be displayed electronically on web sites or via search engines. Advertisements can be displayed on web sites for example via an advertisement banner. Advertisements can be displayed on search engines via a sponsored advertisement. Advertisers pay for the advertisements by choosing keywords or keyword phrases and competing against other advertisers who also want their advertisements to appear on web sites relevant to those keywords or keyword phrases.

When an end user enters a web site containing advertisements the advertisements for which the advertisers have bid on keyword or keyword phrases are displayed. The displaying of the advertisements is referred to as an impression . Advertisers pay by number of impressions simple navigation to the advertiser site pay per click or actions taken on an advertisers site pay per action .

Conventional computerized devices such as personal computers laptop computers and the like utilize graphical user interfaces in applications such as operating systems and graphical editors i.e. web page editors document editors video editors etc. that enable users to quickly provide input and create projects using What You See Is What You Get WYSIWYG technology. In general using a graphical user interface a user operates an input device such as a mouse or keyboard to manipulate digital content on a computer display. The digital content is often represented as icons and the user can operate an input device such as a mouse to move a mouse pointer onto an icon i.e. graphically overlapping the icon on the graphical user interface . By depressing a mouse button the application such as the operating system desktop selects the icon and if the user maintains the mouse button in a depressed state the user can drag the icon across the graphical user interface. By releasing the mouse button the icon is placed on the graphical user interface at the current position of the mouse pointer. Using graphical user interface technology users can create projects by dragging and dropping digital content i.e. graphical objects text text boxes images videos etc into the project.

In addition conventional desktop software applications operate on computer systems to allow for users known as film or video editors to edit digital video content. In particular non linear editing is a non destructive editing method that involves being able to access any frame in a video clip with the same ease as any other. Initially video and audio data from a media source file can be digitized and recorded directly to a storage device that is local to the computer system like a desktop personal computer. The media source file can then be edited on the computer using any of a wide range of video editing software. Example edits that can be made to the video include splicing video segments together applying effects to video adding subtitles and the like.

Conventional computer systems suffer from a variety of deficiencies. For example conventional Internet websites such as Revver.com and Adbrite.com provide models for generating advertising revenue from user created videos. Each user can post their video onto the conventional website which inserts advertisements into the video thereby presenting advertisements in conjunction with the presentation of the video. However the original video creator has no control over the advertisements that are inserted and no control over where the advertisements are to be placed in the video.

Techniques discussed herein significantly overcome the deficiencies of conventional applications such as those discussed above as well as additional techniques also known in the prior art. As will be discussed further certain specific embodiments herein are directed to an insert deflector. The one or more embodiments of the insert deflector as described herein contrast with conventional systems to provide the user with greater control as to enhancements e.g. advertisements media effects media inserts applied to a user created video.

For example in one embodiment on the insert deflector blocking code can be created and stored as a part of an edit decision list. As the edit decision list is being executed to render a media presentation such as a video composition an advertisement insertion engine of an online video service can be blocked by the blocking code from incorporating advertisements into particular portions of the video composition during the video rendering process. In another embodiment the blocking code can be executed after the video composition is rendered to block i.e. prevent advertisements that the advertisement insertion engine seeks to present as the video composition is played back such as a banner ad or a media effect that is applied to the video composition by the online video service.

Thus methods and apparatus disclosed herein provide for an insert deflector to provide a user i.e. video editor video creator with greater control as to media enhancements applied to a video created by that user. Specifically the insert deflector creates blocking code for a portion of a media presentation created by the user. The blocking code is associated with an edit decision list that defines the media presentation. Via execution of the edit decision list to render the media presentation the insert deflector applies the blocking code to prevent insertion of at least one media insert at the portion of the media presentation. A media insert can be an advertisement inserted into a user created video or an advertisement shown in conjunction with the playback of the video.

Thus in contrast to conventional systems the insert deflector gives a user i.e. the video creator control over advertisements that may be inserted into or overlayed onto the user s video from a website that is hosting an online video environment. Thus the insert deflector can prevent video enhancements media effects advertisements and the like from being applied to portions of the user s video that the user has specified are not to include any additional media content. The integrity of the video is thus protected from such conventional online environments that seek to monetize any video content. It is also understood that such advertisements ads that are prevented can be translucent overlay ads text caption ads that float above a video player or ads that interrupt video playback. Further templates and configuration files can be implemented to prevent advertisement insertion.

Other embodiments disclosed herein include any type of computerized device workstation handheld or laptop computer or the like configured with software and or circuitry e.g. a processor to process any or all of the method operations disclosed herein. In other words a computerized device such as a computer or a data communications device or any type of processor that is programmed or configured to operate as explained herein is considered an embodiment disclosed herein. Other embodiments disclosed herein include software programs to perform the steps and operations summarized above and disclosed in detail below. One such embodiment comprises a computer program product that has a computer readable medium including computer program logic encoded thereon that when performed in a computerized device having a coupling of a memory and a processor programs the processor to perform the operations disclosed herein. Such arrangements are typically provided as software code and or other data e.g. data structures arranged or encoded on a computer readable medium such as an optical medium e.g. CD ROM floppy or hard disk or other a medium such as firmware or microcode in one or more ROM or RAM or PROM chips or as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . The software or firmware or other such configurations can be installed onto a computerized device to cause the computerized device to perform the techniques explained as embodiments disclosed herein.

It is to be understood that the system disclosed herein may be embodied strictly as a software program as software and hardware or as hardware alone.

The embodiments disclosed herein may be employed in data communications devices and other computerized devices and software systems for such devices such as those manufactured by Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. U.S.A. herein after referred to as Adobe and Adobe Systems. 

Methods and apparatus provide for an insert deflector to provide a user i.e. video editor with greater control as to media enhancements applied to a user created video. Specifically the insert deflector creates blocking code for a portion of a media presentation created by the user. The blocking code is associated with an edit decision list that defines the media presentation i.e. video composition . Via execution of the edit decision list to render the media presentation the insert deflector applies the blocking code to prevent insertion of at least one media insert at the portion of the media presentation. A media insert can be an advertisement inserted into a user created video composition or an advertisement shown in conjunction with the playback of the video composition.

In one embodiment of the insertion manager a user can use Adobe Premiere Express to specify portions of a video composition that are not to include advertisements or a media insert media enhancement and the like . As the user creates the video the user can select a portion of the video composition or the entire video composition that is blocked from including advertisements or any other media enhancement not originating from the user s video editing session.

In another embodiment of the insertion manager a first user can access a server system which hosts an online video service allowing users to create and edit videos. As the first user is creating a video composition the insertion manager creates an edit decision list. Additionally the first user can specify a portion s in the video composition that cannot incorporate any media inserts i.e. advertisements or third party enhancements. As the first user specifies the protected portions of the video composition the insert deflector provides blocking code reflecting the first user s decisions. Specifically the insert deflector places blocking code in the edit decision list of the video composition. The edit decision list which includes the blocking code can further be stored at the server.

When a second user logs onto the online video service and requests to view the first user s video composition the insert deflector accesses the edit decision list created during the first user s video editing session. The insert deflector executes the edit decision list to render the video composition with one or more base media files. As the edit decision list is executed the blocking code can be executed as well. Thus if an advertisement insertion engine is part of the online video service the blocking code provides instructions to the insert deflector to block the advertisement insertion engine from inserting advertisements at the protected video portions as specified by the first user. Thus the advertisement insertion engine can be blocked by the executed blocking code during the video render process. In the alternative the blocking code can be executed after the video composition is rendered to block i.e. cancel advertisements that the advertisement insertion engine seeks to present as the video composition is played back but not as part of the video composition itself.

For example the advertisement insertion engine can be programmed to present an advertisement while the video composition is being played. Here the blocking code can prevent the presentation of the banner the advertisement after the video composition is rendered. In another example the advertisement insertion engine can be programmed to include an advertisement into one or more actual frames of the video composition itself or between two video frames . In other words the advertisement can be a corporate logo to be included in and rendered with the base media of the video composition. To block such instances of advertisement insertion into the video at the rendering stage the blocking code can be executed as the edit decision list is executed to render the particular portions of the video composition protected by the blocking code.

Similarly when third parties upload base media that can be used for user created videos the base media can include blocking code as well to ensure that no advertisements are applied to the base media. Thus the insert deflector creates base media which is suitable for inclusion in the media presentation. Blocking code for the base media is created in order to prevent the application of a media insert to the base media. The insert deflector then associates the blocking code for the base media to the base media as XML based metadata appended to the base media. It is also understood that the insert deflector can be embodied in a desktop system that creates a metadata text file that identifies the blocked regions while allowing a user to create a video composition and a metadata text file that identifies the blocked regions.

The following discussion relates to providing the edit decision list E.D.L. that will be stored at a server associated with the proxy media editor. The edit decision list can be an XML based text file that contains instructions and information for the server associated with the proxy media editor as to video edits video sequencing file layering and audio data that can be applied to base media i.e. the original video to ultimately present an edited version of the original video to the user. The server system never needs to persistently store the edited version but only needs to have the original unedited media including video images audio and the like and the edit decision list that indicates what edits are to be made to the original video to reproduce the edited version during real time application of the edit decision list to the original media. Once the base media and the edit decision list are fully rendered into the edited video with a particular output specification the edited video for that output specification can be stored. In one embodiment the proxy media editor can create a new video file such as a Flash video file via combining the E.D.L. and the base media according to the output specification of a particular delivery channel. In another embodiment on the fly rendering can be implemented such that no actual edited video file is created. In other words the proxy media editor applies the output specification that corresponds to the delivery channel of the user who is currently requesting video playback as the E.D.L. and base media are combined.

The edit decision list is a text file that can include hyperlink or include many hyperlinks to resources e.g. such as video clips editing effects and the like that reside on a network such as the Internet. In addition to the edit decision list the user can also receive a media effect that can include effects graphics and transitions that can be applied to the base media.

The base media can be an aggregate of individual video audio and graphics files stitched together into a continuous video as defined by the edits encoded into the edit decision list. Such files can each reside at universal resource locators U.R.L . within an asset management system e.g. digital library related to the server or even throughout many different computer systems on the Internet. Hence the edit decision list can instruct the server to locate and to collect video audio and graphics files and to further sequence and layer the files accordingly.

As the base media such as a stitched continuous video gets aggregated it is received and processed at a rendering engine local to the server in order to present the video in an edited version. Both the edit decision list and media effects are executed upon the base media. The base media is thus the original video and the server obtains the edit decision list and executes the edit instructions of the E.D.L contained therein upon the base media.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrates an example of architecture for a computer system that executes runs interprets operates or otherwise performs a insert deflector application and or insert deflector process e.g. an executing version of the application which can be controlled by a user according to embodiments herein. The computer system may be any type of computerized device such as a personal computer workstation portable computing device console laptop network terminal or the like. In particular the computerized device can be a web server hosting an online video service that inserts media e.g. advertisements into user created videos.

As shown in the present example the computer system includes an interconnection mechanism such as a data bus motherboard or other circuitry that couples a memory system a processor and an input output interface . An input device e.g. one or more user developer controlled devices such as a keyboard mouse touch pad etc. can couple to the computer system and processor through an input output I O interface .

The memory system can be any type of computer readable medium and in this example is encoded with a insert deflector application that supports generation display and implementation of functional operations as will be further explained herein.

During operation of the computer system the processor accesses the memory system via the interconnect in order to launch run execute interpret or otherwise perform the logic instructions of the insert deflector application . Execution of the insert deflector application in this manner produces a insert deflector process . In other words the insert deflector process represents one or more portions or runtime instances of the insert deflector application or the entire application performing or executing within or upon the processor in the computerized device at runtime.

Further details of configurations explained herein will now be provided with respect to flow charts of processing steps that show the high level operations disclosed herein to perform the insert deflector process as well as graphical representations that illustrate implementations of the various configurations of the insert deflector process .

It is understood that a media effects set can include one or more video effects graphics and transitions that can be applied to the base media. As an example the user can add an opening title screen with a transition to the initial frame of the edited video. Also the user can add subtitles throughout the frames of the edited video wherever dialogue occurs. Other media effects can involve converting various potions of a video to black and white and some media effects can provide audio effects and or embellishments.

An asset management system is also included in the server system as well which can be utilized for managing content for the web. The asset management system can manage content text graphics links etc. for distribution on a web server e.g a Flash Media Server . Thus the asset management system can also include software where users can create edit store retrieve and manage content with relative ease of use. Such an asset management system can use a database for example to catalog and store content and a presentation layer displays the content to regular website visitors based on a set of templates.

A user can send a request from the client system to the server system via the network to view a media presentation i.e. a user created video composition . For example the client system can launch a web browser at the client system that communicates with the server and thereby the insert deflector .

In response to receiving the user s request for a particular video composition the insert deflector can search for and access the corresponding edit decision list E.D.L. stored in the asset management system that must be executed in order to render the video composition. The insert deflector can utilize a rendering engine to execute the edit decision list E.D.L. and media effects to base media . The rendering engine further executes the E.D.L. in accordance with the blocking code in the E.D.L. . The blocking code can include instructions to cancel and block the insertion of advertisements into the video composition from the advertisement insertion engine .

At step the insert deflector provides blocking code for a portion of a media presentation. At step the blocking code as XML based metadata is compatible with the edit decision list and defines a portion of the media presentation and further defines that a media insert such as an advertisements cannot be applied at the portion of the media presentation while i the media presentation is being rendered according to the edit decision list or ii the media presentation is being played back.

At step the insert deflector associates the blocking code with an edit decision list that defines the media presentation. Via execution of the edit decision list to render the media presentation at step the insert deflector applies the blocking code to prevent insertion of at least one media insert at the portion of the media presentation.

In one embodiment of an insert deflector a user can utilize a user interface of a video service to mark portions of a video that are not to include media inserts and enhancements that are not already provided for in the video s corresponding edit decision list . As the user marks the protected portions of the video blocking code operative to prevent such media inserts from being applied to the marked portions is created as XML metadata and appended to the edit decision list . Thus if the video service implements an advertisement insertion engine that can incorporate advertisements into video the blocking code is executed to ensure that any incorporated advertisements are not applied at the protected portions. For example if the blocking code defines the protected portion as the entire video then the advertisement insertion engine can only place an advertisement before or after the video.

At step where the media presentation comprises a video composition the insert deflector provides the blocking code as XML based metadata that is compatible with the edit decision list such that the blocking code can be included as part of the edit decision list . The XML based metadata defines a video frame or a duration of time of the video composition that cannot be associated with the media insert.

At step the insert deflector defines a video frame or a duration of time in the video composition that is blocked from incorporating a media insert. In particular the media insert can be i an advertisement for presentation within a video frame ii an advertisement for presentation during the duration of time iii an advertisement for presentation in conjunction with one of the video frame and the duration of time and iv an advertisement related to a particular service or product.

In another embodiment of an insert deflector a rendering engine associated with the insert deflector executes the edit decision list to render a video. The blocking code is part of the edit decision list and is executed at the rendering engine as well. The blocking code can communicate with an advertisement insertion engine to identify the types of advertisements which cannot be inserted into the rendered video. For instance if the video pertains to a user s video clips from a family gathering the user can specify that portions of the video are not to be associated with advertisements for alcohol and cigarettes. Thus as the user marks such portions blocking code is created which specifies that advertisements for alcohol and cigarettes cannot be included in those portions of the video as it is being rendered. However since the blocking code relates only to alcohol and cigarettes advertisements the advertisement insertion engine can incorporate other kinds of advertisements in the protected portions.

At step the insert deflector inserts the blocking code within an instruction set of the edit decision list . The blocking code can be XML based metadata that is incorporated into or appended to the edit decision list . Thus as the edit decision list is executed then the blocking code is processed as well.

At step the insert deflector stores the edit decision list which includes the inserted blocking code at a server system e.g Flash Media Server which provides an advertisement insertion engine that can incorporate an media insert into a media presentation.

At step the insert deflector executes the blocking code to communicate to an advertisement insertion engine to cancel advertisements programmed to be inserted within a video frame after a video frame before a video frame or during a particular duration of time of the media presentation.

In one embodiment the advertisement insertion engine can program a video advertisement to be presented before after or during the video clip or an overlay ad that runs on top of the video at certain points such as during the final 20 seconds of a user created video. However the blocking code in the edit decision list used to render the user created video can define the that final 20 seconds must not be associated with any advertising. Although providing the banner advertisement is involved in the video rendering process the blocking code can provide the advertisement insertion engine with instructions to cancel the banner advertisement during playback of the rendered video. In yet another embodiment a file of the rendered video can be saved with the blocking code as well. Thus the video need not be re rendered in order to avoid banner advertisements.

At step the insert deflector executes the blocking code to communicate to the advertisement insertion engine to not render an advertisement for insertion within a video frame after a video frame before a video frame or during a particular duration of time of the media presentation. For example in one embodiment of the insert deflector the advertisement insertion engine can be programmed to burn a corporate logo known as a bug into a corner of various frames of a user created video. Thus as the edit decision list is executed to render the video the advertisement insertion engine adds media data representing the corporate logo into the base media that the edit decision list is using to build the video. The blocking code in the edit decision list can be executed via the rendering engine to prevent the advertisement insertion engine from adding such corporate logo media data. In other words if the advertisement insertion engine is programmed to burn the corporate logo into a video frame that is to be protected from any media inserts the blocking code will cancel the advertisement insertion engine from burning the corporate logo into that protected video frame.

Other embodiments of an insert deflector is disclosed herein also include any type of computerized device workstation handheld or laptop computer or the like configured with software and or circuitry e.g. a processor to process any or all of the method operations disclosed herein. In other words a computerized device such as a computer or a data communications device or any type of processor that is programmed or configured to operate as explained herein is considered an embodiment disclosed herein.

Note again that techniques herein are well suited for to allow for an insert deflector to provide a user i.e. video editor video creator with greater control as to media enhancements such as advertisements applied to a user created video. However it should be noted that embodiments herein are not limited to use in such applications and that the techniques discussed herein are well suited for other applications as well. While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present application as defined by the appended claims. Such variations are intended to be covered by the scope of this present application. As such the foregoing description of embodiments of the present application is not intended to be limiting. Rather any limitations to the invention are presented in the following claims.

