---

title: System and method for detecting a weak signal in a noisy environment
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for computing a power spectral density of a signal. One such method computes a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) of a first signal segment and an FFT of a second signal segment. The first and second segments are adjacent and non-overlapping in time, and the second segment follows the first. The first FFT is multiplied by a complex conjugate of the second FFT. A first complex value is computed from this first product. An FFT of a third signal segment is computed. The second and third segments are adjacent and non-overlapping in time. The third segment follows the second segment. The second FFT is multiplied by a complex conjugate of the third FFT. A second complex value is computed from this second product. The first and second complex values are added, and the power spectral density of the sum is computed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321491&OS=08321491&RS=08321491
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08321491
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070626
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates to digital signal processing and more specifically to a system and method for detecting a weak signal in noisy environment.

A variety of digital signal processing algorithms are used for detecting the presence of an expected signal within a received noisy signal. When the expected signal is a single tone pure sine wave at a particular frequency the power spectral density PSD algorithm is commonly used. The presence of a single tone is revealed by a single spike in PSD at the tone frequency when PSD is plotted versus frequency.

The probability of detection depends on the signal to noise ratio SNR of the received signal with the typical probability of tone detection dropping rapidly when SNR drops below 10 dB. Therefore improvements to tone detection are desirable.

Systems and methods are disclosed for computing a power spectral density of a signal. One such method computes a Fast Fourier Transform FFT of a first signal segment and an FFT of a second signal segment. The first and second segments are adjacent and non overlapping in time and the second segment follows the first. The first FFT is multiplied by a complex conjugate of the second FFT. A first complex value is computed from this first product. An FFT of a third signal segment is computed. The second and third segments are adjacent and non overlapping in time. The third segment follows the second segment. The second FFT is multiplied by a complex conjugate of the third FFT. A second complex value is computed from this second product. The first and second complex values are added and the power spectral density of the sum is computed.

The systems and or methods for detecting a weak signal in noisy environment described herein can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the system and or method is implemented in software that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable microprocessor uP situated in a desktop computer or workstation computer. However system and or method which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions.

In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM magnetic a read only memory ROM magnetic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory magnetic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

An algorithm called adjacent conjugate convolution ACC is performed on array x to produce a power spectral density PSD array p . The ACC algorithm computes the Fast Fourier Transform FFT of array x using an FFT with Npoints. The ACC algorithm will be described in more detail in connection with .

In an embodiment disclosed herein each sample A B C in x is a real number. Techniques for converting between real number and complex number representations of signals are well understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art of digital signal processing and such persons will understand how the techniques disclosed herein can be adapted to signals that are represented with complex numbers.

PSD describes relative power as a function of frequency and the PSD array is indexed by frequency. The frequencies range from 0 to F 2 and are spaced F Napart. In the example of the sample frequency Fis 48000 so frequencies range from 0 to 48000 2 24000 Hz. The frequencies are spaced every 24000 4096 5.386 Hz. Thus the value of p 1 is the power at 0 Hz p 2 is the power at 5.386 Hz and the value of p 4096 is the power at 24000 Hz. As will be described later the PSD in array p has improved gain compared to a conventional PSD calculation because the ACC algorithm divides the input array x into multiple segments and coherently integrates uncorrelated noise from adjacent segments.

As shown in some operations involve a single segment and other operations involve adjacent segments e.g. A and B . Operations on a particular segment are time dependent since the result of one operation provides input to the next operation. For example the windowing operation feeds into the FFT operation . The multiplication operation uses adjacent segments and so is time dependent on the previous operations on both segments. For example the FFT operation on segment A and the FFT operation on segment B must complete before the multiplication operation can begin. Within these constraints parallel processing is possible.

One of the per segment computations performed in block is an FFT which transforms Npoints in the time domain into Npoints in the frequency domain. The ACC algorithm uses a segment size equal to N the number of FFT points. This choice of segment size results in an efficient FFT computation but another segment size can be chosen. Fast Fourier Transforms will be familiar to one skilled in the art of digital signal processing so the details of FFT computation will not be discussed in detail. Using a larger N in the FFT computation produces better resolution in the frequency domain but at the cost of increased computational complexity. Thus the value of N is a design choice that depends on the resolution desired and the computing resources available. In a preferred embodiment N is a power of 2. In one embodiment N is 2.

In the example shown in Nis 4 and the input array x contains n segments though only four are illustrated. The first segment A includes samples x x . The second segment B includes samples x x . The last segment C is segment x n and contains the last four samples.

The first per segment computation performed by the ACC algorithm in block applies a window to each segment A B C etc. . In this context a window is a vector. To apply the window to a segment each value in the segment array is multiplied by the corresponding value in the window. Put another way the segment is scaled by the window. In the example embodiment of a rectangular window is used. The rectangular window is used in this embodiment because it produces a narrow peak. A rectangular window also produces high side lobes. If side lobes are undesirable for a particular use or application than another type of window e.g. Hamming Blackman and Hann can be used.

The output of windowing block provides input to the FFT block . The FFT block operates on the windowed time domain samples in a particular segment x A B C etc. to produce an output array X containing frequency domain samples. As stated earlier the number of FFT points is specified as N. Thus FFT block performs the following computations in the example embodiment of X 1 FFT x 1 N X 2 FFT x 2 N X 3 FFT X 3 N . . .

The FFT produced by block and stored in array X provides input to the conjugate block and the multiplication block . As can be seen in block operates on the current FFT computing the complex conjugate of this FFT. Multiplication block receives this complex conjugate and the previous FFT and multiplies the two arrays. Thus blocks and perform the following in the example embodiment of 11 conj 2 22 conj 3 33 conj 4 . . .

The outputs of each instantiation of the multiplication block are provided to an addition block . The addition block sums or integrates these inputs. The result is an array of frequency domain samples of size N 2 with the frequencies spaced F Napart. The PSD block computes the power spectral density of this array by multiplying the array by its complex conjugate. The result is PSD array which contains the relative power at each frequency from 0 to N 2 typically expressed in dB units.

The ACC algorithm improves on conventional tone detection techniques by using small FFT segment and coherently integrating adjacent segments. As a result the ACC algorithm has the desirable behavior of compensating for frequency drift and producing a PSD array with improved gain. Tones can be detected in the output of the ACC algorithm by the PSD array as input to a Constant False Alarm Rate CFAR detector see which produces a list of detected tones. The CFAR detector will not be discussed in further detail since a person of ordinary skill in the art of signal processing will understand its use.

A D converter receives a signal over channel . Memory contains ACC logic which when executed on processor implements the ACC algorithm described herein. Memory also contains CFAR detector logic which is used in conjunction with the CC logic as described above. In one embodiment the ACC logic operates on a signal received over channel . In another embodiment the ACC logic operates on a signal stored in non volatile storage .

Omitted from are a number of conventional components known to those skilled in the art that are not necessary to explain the operation of the system and method for detecting a weak signal in noisy environment.

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments discussed however were chosen and described to illustrate the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variation are within the scope of the invention as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly and legally entitled.

