---

title: Method and system for protection of electronic digital content
abstract: A computer-implemented method of protecting content includes receiving a request from a user to access the content. The user is enabled to perceive the content based on the request received from the user. The user is prevented from capturing the content when perception of the content is enabled. The method may be performed by a Java applet running in a network environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07774857&OS=07774857&RS=07774857
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 07774857
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 688 142 filed Oct. 16 2000 and titled Method and System for Preventing Capture of Electronic Digital Content which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 305 713 on Dec. 4 2007 which claimed priority under 35 USC 119 e 1 to U.S. Application 60 159 370 filed Oct. 14 1999. The entire contents of both of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

Subscribers to online services have virtually on demand access to news weather financial sports and entertainment services as well as the ability to transmit electronic messages and to participate in online discussion groups. For example subscribers of online service providers such as America Online or CompuServe may view and retrieve information on a wide variety of topics from repositories located throughout the world. Subscribers may perceive online content in a variety of ways. For example a subscriber may read a document view an image or listen to a song while online.

The systems and techniques described here provide a simple yet effective mechanism for allowing users to access electronic content while at the same time preventing users from copying or otherwise capturing the electronic content. As a result content providers have an increased ability to control the usage and distribution of their electronic content. The systems and techniques are particularly useful with respect to digital images.

In one general aspect a computer implemented method of protecting content includes receiving a request from a user to access the content. Based on the request received from the user the user is allowed to perceive the content but is prevented from capturing the content.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example an indicator may be presented to indicate the presence of the content with the indicator differing from the content. In one implementation the content may be an image and the indicator may include a display area that is substantially the same size as the image and is substantially at the same location as the image. The indicator may include text that directs the user to press and hold an input device when a graphical interface tool is positioned over the indicator in order to perceive the content.

Allowing the user to perceive the content may include presenting the content to the user when the user activates an input device after positioning the graphical interface tool over the indicator. The user may be prevented from capturing the content by limiting activities of the user while the input device is being used to perceive the content. For instance activation of another device may be prevented while the input device is being used to perceive the content. The functionality of the input device itself also may be limited to prevent the input device from being used to capture content that the input device is being used to access and or perceive.

The content may be presented in a browser window to allow perception of content by the user. In this manner the user may be prevented from capturing the content by preventing the user from accessing a browser application that otherwise enables copying and saving of the content.

Preventing the user from capturing the content may also include preventing a perception of the content whenever the user attempts to capture the content.

An icon that differs from the content and that indicates a presence of the content may be presented. The content may include an image and preventing the user from capturing the content may include preventing the user from copying or saving the image. Presenting the icon may include displaying the icon in an area that has a size and a location that are substantially the same as a size and a location of the image. Presenting the icon may also include directing the user to operate an input device in a prescribed manner to request access to the content when a graphical interface tool is positioned over the icon.

Receiving a request from the user to access the content may include receiving input from a user corresponding to the positioning of a graphical interface tool over the icon. Preventing the user from capturing the content may include preventing the user from using a single device to both present and capture the content.

Preventing the user from capturing the content may include preventing perception of the content whenever the user attempts to capture the content.

The method may be performed by a Java applet. The content may reside at a webpage and the content may be described in hyper text markup language HTML . The request received from the user to access the content may include instructions from the user to access a document with the instructions including a network address of the document.

The user may be enabled to perceive the content by displaying an image or otherwise making content perceivable. For instance the content may include sound and the user may perceive the content by playing the sound the content may include text and the user may perceive the content by displaying the text or the content may include video and the user may perceive the content by playing the video.

The features may be embodied in a method as described above may be embodied in a computer program or they may be performed by one or more physical elements structures and or systems.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description provided below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

Network users view and increasingly copy digital images also referred to as electronic images and other electronic content that appear on webpages even when not authorized to do so. Such images may be the property of content providers who intend to provide visual access to their webpages and the images in these webpages but who may not intend to enable copying of the webpages or images by unauthorized users. The present inventor recognized that it would be advantageous to provide content providers with a mechanism for preventing users from copying online digital images while still allowing users to view the images. To this end the following discussion is directed to preventing unauthorized capturing of an online digital image or any other electronic content that may be perceived by a user.

The computer system illustrated in represents a hardware setup for executing software that allows a user to perform tasks such as communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content that is any combination of text images movies music or other sounds animations 3D virtual worlds and links to other objects. The computer system of may also be programmed with computer readable instructions to enable content to be perceived for example viewed without being captured for example copied saved or printed .

The system includes various input output I O devices mouse keyboard display and a general purpose computer having a central processor unit CPU an I O unit and a memory that stores data and various programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs . The computer system preferably also includes some sort of communications card or device for example a modem or network adapter for exchanging data with a network via a communications link for example a telephone line .

As shown in using network a user of a computer system can access electronic content or other resources either stored locally at the user s own client system for example a personal or laptop computer remotely at one or more server systems or at other client systems . An example of a server system is a host computer that provides subscribers with online computer data and services such as e mail e commerce chat rooms Internet access electronic newspapers and magazines etc.

Users of a host computer s online services typically communicate with one or more central server systems through client software executing on their respective client systems . In practice a server system typically will not be a single monolithic entity but rather will be a network of interconnected server computers possibly physically dispersed from each other each dedicated to its own set of duties and or to a particular geographical region. In such a case the server computers are interconnected by a network of communication links.

Each client system runs client software that enables communication with corresponding software running on the server system . The client systems communicate with the server system through various channels and lines such as a modem connected to a telephone line a direct Internet connection using a transfer protocol such as TCP IP Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol cable integrated services digital network ISDN or other transfer protocols. The server system is responsible for receiving input from the client systems manipulating the collective body of input information and possibly information from other sources into a useful format and retransmitting the formatted information back to one or more clients for output on an output device such as a display screen.

A browser is an example of client software that enables users to access and view electronic content stored either locally or remotely such as in a network environment of interconnected computer systems for example local area network LAN wide area network WAN intranet Internet . A browser typically is used for displaying documents described in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML and stored on servers connected to a network such as the Internet. A user instructs a browser to access an electronic document webpage by specifying a network address or Uniform Resource Locator URL indicating the location of a desired webpage. In response the browser contacts the corresponding server hosting the requested webpage retrieves the one or more files that make up the webpage and then displays the webpage in a window on the user s computer screen.

For illustrative purposes describe a communications system for implementing techniques for transferring files between subscribers of a host complex. Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging data between a client system and a host system through a communications link . The client system typically includes one or more client devices and or client controllers . For example the client system may include one or more general purpose computers for example personal computers one or more special purpose computers for example devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the host system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The client system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as for example one or more Local Area Networks LANs and or one or more Wide Area Networks WANs .

The client device is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a client controller . The client device is connected to the client controller by a wired or wireless data pathway capable of delivering data.

The client device and client controller each typically includes one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a client device is a general purpose computer for example a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. An example of client controller is a software application loaded on the client device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the client device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client device to interact and operate as described herein. The client controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client device .

The communications link typically includes a delivery network making a direct or indirect communication between the client system and the host system irrespective of physical separation. Examples of a delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web WANs LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks for example PSTN ISDN and xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanism for carrying data. The communications link may include communication pathways that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks described above. Each of the communication pathways may include for example a wired wireless cable or satellite communication pathway.

The host system includes a host device capable of executing instructions under the command and direction of a host controller . The host device is connected to the host controller by a wired or wireless data pathway capable of carrying and delivering data.

The host system typically includes one or more host devices and or host controllers . For example the host system may include one or more general purpose computers for example personal computers one or more special purpose computers for example devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the client system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The host system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as for example one or more LANs and or one or more WANs.

The host device and host controller each typically includes one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a host device is a general purpose computer for example a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. An example of host controller is a software application loaded on the host device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the host device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the host device to interact and operate as described herein. The host controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the host device .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the host system and communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to host system and communications link of respectively. Likewise the client system of typically has attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the client system of .

The client device typically includes a general purpose computer having an internal or external storage for storing data and programs such as an operating system for example DOS Windows Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows 2000 Windows NT OS 2 and Linux and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include authoring applications for example word processing database programs spreadsheet programs and graphics programs capable of generating documents or other electronic content client applications for example AOL client CompuServe client AIM client AOL TV client and ISP client capable of communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content and browser applications for example Netscape s Navigator and Microsoft s Internet Explorer capable of rendering standard Internet content.

The general purpose computer also includes a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions in response to commands from the client controller . In one implementation the client controller includes one or more of the application programs installed on the internal or external storage of the general purpose computer . In another implementation the client controller includes application programs externally stored in and performed by one or more device s external to the general purpose computer .

The general purpose computer typically will include a communication device for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver a set top box a communication card a satellite dish an antenna or another network adapter capable of transmitting and receiving data over the communications link through a wired or wireless data pathway . The general purpose computer also may include a television TV tuner for receiving television programming in the form of broadcast satellite and or cable TV signals. As a result the client device can selectively and or simultaneously display network content received by communications device and television programming content received by the TV tuner .

The general purpose computer typically will include an input output interface to enable a wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices include but are not limited to a mouse a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a keyboard a display monitor with or without a touch screen input and or a TV remote control for receiving information from and rendering information to subscribers. Other examples may include voice recognition and synthesis devices.

Although illustrates devices such as a mobile telephone a PDA and a TV remote control as being peripheral with respect to the general purpose computer in another implementation such devices may themselves include the functionality of the general purpose computer and operate as the client device . For example the mobile phone or the PDA may include computing and networking capabilities and function as a client device by accessing the delivery network and communicating with the host system . Furthermore the client system may include one some or all of the components and devices described above.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in respectively.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server for enabling access by subscribers and routing communications between the client system and other elements of the host device . The host device also includes various host complexes such as the depicted Online Service Provider OSP host complex and Instant Messaging IM host complex . To enable access to these host complexes by subscribers the client system may include communication software for example an OSP client application and an IM client application. The OSP and IM communication software applications are designed to facilitate the subscriber s interactions with the respective services and in particular may provide access to all the services available within the respective host complexes. For example Instant Messaging allows a subscriber to use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

Typically the OSP host complex supports different services such as email discussion groups chat news services and Internet access. The OSP host complex is generally designed with an architecture that enables the machines within the OSP host complex to communicate with each other certain protocols that is standards formats conventions rules and structures being employed to enable the transfer of data. The OSP host complex ordinarily employs one or more OSP protocols and custom dialing engines to enable access by selected client applications. The OSP host complex may define one or more specific protocols for each service based on a common underlying proprietary protocol.

The IM host complex is generally independent of the OSP host complex and supports instant messaging services regardless of a subscriber s network or Internet access. Thus the IM host complex allows subscribers to send and receive instant messages whether or not they have access to any particular ISP. The IM host complex may support associated services such as administrative matters advertising directory services chat and interest groups related to the instant messaging. The IM host complex has an architecture that enables all of the machines within the IM host complex to communicate with each other. To transfer data the IM host complex employs one or more standard or exclusive IM protocols.

The host device may include one or more gateways that connect and therefore link complexes such as the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway . The OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway may directly or indirectly link the OSP host complex with the IM host complex through a wired or wireless pathway. Ordinarily when used to facilitate a link between complexes the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway are privy to information regarding a protocol anticipated by a destination complex which enables any necessary protocol conversion to be performed incident to the transfer of data from one complex to another. For instance the OSP host complex and IM host complex may use different protocols such that transferring data between the complexes requires protocol conversion by or at the request of the OSP host complex gateway and or the IM host complex gateway .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in respectively. However describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of OSP host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an OSP application for communicating with servers in the OSP host complex using OSP protocols that may or may not be exclusive or proprietary. The client controller also may include applications such as an IM client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the IM host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as OSP host complex and IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of these elements.

The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are typically connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may generally perform protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between one or more of the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

The OSP host complex supports a set of services to be accessed through and or performed by from one or more servers located internal to and external from the OSP host complex . Servers external to the OSP host complex may communicate using the Internet . Servers internal to the OSP complex may be arranged in one or more configurations. For example servers may be arranged in large centralized clusters identified as farms or in localized clusters identified as pods .

More specifically farms are groups of servers located at centralized locations within the OSP host complex . Farms generally are dedicated to providing particular functionality and services to subscribers and clients from a centralized location regardless of the location of the subscriber or client. Farms are particularly useful for providing services that depend upon other remotely located or performed processes and services for information such as for example chat email instant messaging news newsgroups search stock updates and weather. Thus farms tend to rely on connections with external resources such as the Internet and or other servers within the OSP host complex .

By contrast to farms pods are clusters of localized servers that provide some services offered by the OSP host complex from a location local to the service or information recipient thus reducing and avoiding time delays and congestion inherent in centralized processing. Each pod includes one or more interrelated servers capable of operating together to provide one or more services offered by the OSP host complex in a geographically localized manner the servers within a pod generally operating independently rather than relying on resources external to the pod to operate. A pod may cache content received from external sources such as farms or the Internet making frequently requested information readily available to the local service or information recipients served by the pod . In this way pods are particularly useful in providing services that are independent of other processes and servers such as for example routing to other localized resources or recipients providing access to keywords and geographically specific content providing access to routinely accessed information and downloading certain software and graphical interface updates with reduced processing time and congestion. The determination of which servers and processes are located in the pod is made by the OSP according to load distribution frequency of requests demographics and other factors.

In addition to farms and pods the implementation of also includes one or more non podded and non farmed servers . In general the servers may be dedicated to performing a particular service or information that relies on other processes and services for information and may be directly or indirectly connected to resources outside of the OSP host complex such as the Internet and the IM host complex through an OSP gateway within OSP host complex gateway . In the event that subscriber usage of a particular service or information of the servers becomes relatively high those servers may be integrated into a farm or pod as appropriate.

In the implementation of one particular exemplary pod is shown in more detail. Pod includes a routing processor . In a packet based implementation the client system may generate information requests convert the requests into data packets sequence the data packets perform error checking and other packet switching techniques and transmit the data packets to the routing processor . Upon receiving data packets from the client system the routing processor may directly or indirectly route the data packets to a specified destination within or outside of the OSP host complex . In general the routing processor will examine an address field of a data request use a mapping table to determine the appropriate destination for the data request and direct the data request to the appropriate destination.

For example in the event that a data request from the client system can be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request to a local server in the pod . In the event that the data request cannot be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request internally to one or more farms one or more other pods or one or more non podded servers in the OSP host complex or the routing processor may direct the data request externally to elements such as the IM host complex through an OSP pod gateway .

The routing processor also may direct data requests and or otherwise facilitate communication between the client system and the Internet through the OSP pod gateway . In one implementation the client system uses an OSP client application to convert standard Internet content and protocols into OSP protocols and vice versa where necessary. For example when a browser application transmits a request in a standard Internet protocol the OSP client application can intercept the request convert the request into an OSP protocol and send the converted request to the routing processor in the OSP host complex . The routing processor recognizes the Internet as the destination and routes the data packets to an Internet Protocol IP tunnel . The IP tunnel converts the data from the OSP protocol back into standard Internet protocol and transmits the data to the Internet . The IP tunnel also converts the data received from the Internet in the standard Internet protocol back into the OSP protocol and sends the data to the routing processor for delivery back to the client system . At the client system the OSP client application converts the data in the OSP protocol back into standard Internet content for communication with the browser application.

The IP tunnel may act as a buffer between the client system and the Internet and may implement content filtering and time saving techniques. For example the IP tunnel can check parental controls settings of the client system and request and transmit content from the Internet according to the parental control settings. In addition the IP tunnel may include a number a caches for storing frequently accessed information. If requested data is determined to be stored in the caches the IP tunnel may send the information to the client system from the caches and avoid the need to access the Internet .

In another implementation the client system may use standard Internet protocols and formatting to access pods and the Internet . For example the subscriber can use an OSP TV client application having an embedded browser application installed on the client system to generate a request in standard Internet protocol such as HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP . In a packet based implementation data packets may be encapsulated inside a standard Internet tunneling protocol such as for example User Datagram Protocol UDP and routed to a web tunnel . The web tunnel may be a Layer Two Tunneling Protocol L2TP tunnel capable of establishing a point to point protocol PPP session with the client system . The web tunnel provides a gateway to the routing processor within the pod the Internet and a web proxy .

The web proxy can look up subscriber information from the IP address of the client system to determine demographic information such as the subscriber s parental control settings. In this way the web proxy can tailor the subscriber s content and user interfaces. The web proxy can also perform caching functions to store certain Uniform Resource Locators URLs and other electronic content so that the web proxy can locally deliver information to the client system and avoid the need to access the Internet in the event that data requested by the client system has been cached.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in respectively. However describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex utilizing exclusive IM protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an OSP client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with elements such as the OSP host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the OSP host complex and IM host complex login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of the elements. The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

To access the IM host complex to begin an instant messaging session the client system establishes a connection to the login server . The login server typically determines whether the particular subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex by verifying a subscriber identification and password. If the subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex the login server employs a hashing technique on the subscriber s screen name to identify a particular IM server for use during the subscriber s session. The login server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular IM server gives the client system an encrypted key that is a cookie and breaks the connection. The client system then uses the IP address to establish a connection to the particular IM server through the communications link and obtains access to that IM server using the encrypted key. Typically the client system will be equipped with a Winsock Application Programming Interface API that enables the client system to establish an open TCP connection to the IM server .

Once a connection to the IM server has been established the client system may directly or indirectly transmit data to and access content from the IM server and one or more associated domain servers . The IM server supports the fundamental instant messaging services and the domain servers may support associated services such as for example administrative matters directory services chat and interest groups. The domain servers can be used to lighten the load placed on the IM server by assuming responsibility for some of the services within the IM host complex . By accessing the IM server and or the domain server a subscriber can use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers or buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

In the implementation of IM server is directly or indirectly connected to a routing gateway . The routing gateway facilitates the connection between the IM server and one or more alert multiplexors . For example routing gateway may serve as a link minimization tool or hub to connect several IM servers to several alert multiplexors . In general an alert multiplexor maintains a record of alerts and subscribers registered to receive the alerts.

Once the client system is connected to the alert multiplexor a subscriber can register for and or receive one or more types of alerts. The connection pathway between the client system and the alert multiplexor is determined by employing a hashing technique at the IM server to identify the particular alert multiplexor to be used for the subscriber s session. Once the particular multiplexor has been identified the IM server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular alert multiplexor and gives the client system an encrypted key that is a cookie used to gain access to the identified multiplexor . The client system then uses the IP address to connect to the particular alert multiplexor through the communication link and obtains access to the alert multiplexor using the encrypted key.

The alert multiplexor is connected to an alert gate that like the IM host complex gateway is capable of performing the necessary protocol conversions to enable communication with the OSP host complex . The alert gate is the interface between the IM host complex and the physical servers such as servers in the OSP host complex where state changes are occurring. In general the information regarding state changes will be gathered and used by the IM host complex . However the alert multiplexor also may communicate with the OSP host complex through the IM gateway for example to provide the servers and subscribers of the OSP host complex with certain information gathered from the alert gate .

The alert gate can detect an alert feed corresponding to a particular type of alert. The alert gate may include a piece of code alert receive code capable of interacting with another piece of code alert broadcast code on the physical server where a state change occurs. In general the alert receive code installed on the alert gate instructs the alert broadcast code installed on the physical server to send an alert feed to the alert gate upon the occurrence of a particular state change. Thereafter upon detecting an alert feed the alert gate contacts the alert multiplexor which in turn informs the appropriate client system of the detected alert feed.

In the implementation of the IM host complex also includes a subscriber profile server connected to a database for storing large amounts of subscriber profile data. The subscriber profile server may be used to enter retrieve edit manipulate or otherwise process subscriber profile data. In one implementation a subscriber s profile data includes for example the subscriber s buddy list alert preferences designated stocks identified interests geographic location and other demographic data. The subscriber may enter edit and or delete profile data using an installed IM client application on the client system to interact with the subscriber profile server .

Because the subscriber s data is stored in the IM host complex the subscriber does not have to reenter or update such information in the event that the subscriber accesses the IM host complex using a new or different client system . Accordingly when a subscriber accesses the IM host complex the IM server can instruct the subscriber profile server to retrieve the subscriber s profile data from the database and to provide for example the subscriber s buddy list to the IM server and the subscriber s alert preferences to the alert multiplexor . The subscriber profile server also may communicate with other servers in the OSP host complex to share subscriber profile data with other services. Alternatively user profile data may be saved locally on the client device .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of respectively. Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible embodiment of the host systems and shown in respectively. However describes several aspects of one implementation of the host system in greater detail focusing primarily on one particular implementation of the login server and IN host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the IM host complex . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex utilizing exclusive IM protocols.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host is device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the IN host complex and the OSP host complex login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The IM host complex includes an IM server network a routing gateway an alert multiplexor network and one or more alert gates . The IM server network may include an interconnected network of IN servers and the alert multiplexor network may include an interconnected network of alert multiplexors. In the implementation of the IM server network and the alert multiplexor network are interconnected by a routing gateway that serves as a common hub to reduce the number of connections. Each IM server within IM server network can directly or indirectly communicate and exchange information with one or more of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network . Each of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network may be connected to several alert gates that receive different types of alerts.

During a session a subscriber typically will be assigned to one IM server in the IM server network and to one alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network based on one or more hashing techniques. In one implementation for example each IM server in the IM server network may be dedicated to serving a particular set of registered subscribers. Because all of the IM servers can communicate with each other all subscribers can communicate with each other through instant messaging. However the IM servers and the alert multiplexors are capable of storing subscriber information and other electronic content that may be accessed by the other IM servers and alert multiplexors. Thus in another implementation each alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network may be dedicated to storing information about a particular set or subset of alerts. Because all of the alert multiplexors can communicate with each other all registered subscribers can receive all types of alerts. This networking arrangement enables the load to be distributed among the various servers in the IM host complex while still enabling a subscriber to communicate share information or otherwise interact with other subscribers and servers in the IM host complex .

Referring also to a host device or a client device interacts with one or more client devices according to procedure to prevent a user from capturing online content such as for example an image sensitive or classified text audio or video. The procedure may be implemented by any type of hardware software device computer computer system equipment component program application code storage medium or propagated signal. In one implementation procedure is performed by a Java applet which is an application program that ruts inside a client device. When the user on a client device visits a webpage containing a Java applet the Java applet is downloaded automatically from a host server to the client device and the Java applet is then run automatically in the client s browser.

The procedure may be performed in any computer environment in which a user wishes to access electronic content. Thus for example the procedure may be implemented in a software package that a user accesses or operates from a home computer while offline. In this way the producers of the software prevent certain content in the application program from being captured by the user.

The procedure may be implemented in any programming language including for example machine language assembly language HTML Fortran C BASIC Visual Basic or any other high level language.

Examples of the elements that may perform procedure may be broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client devices typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client devices and and the host device typically has attributes comparable to those described with respect to host devices and . The client devices and or the host device may be directly or indirectly interconnected through any type of delivery network described herein. In this manner the procedure of may be performed by devices such as client devices or and host devices or .

To prevent unauthorized access to content access providers with electronic content and information to protect may set preferences regulating the ability of access seekers who perceive content for example a user who views an image or listens to audio to capture the content for example an image may be saved or audio may be recorded . Typically the access provider that wishes to protect content will be presented with a Graphical User Interface GUI and will use that GUI to select among various capture preferences including for example the conditions for making content available to access seekers and the directory where the available content is stored. An access provider s capture preferences may be maintained locally or on a host device.

In one implementation the host device it should be understood that the client device or any other type of medium may also or alternatively perform this procedure presents information that indicates the location of content that is potentially accessible though not presently perceivable step . The host device receives a request from an access seeker to access the content step . The host device determines whether the request from the user is valid step . If the request from the user is valid the host device enables the user to perceive the content step . For example if the content is an image the host device enables the user to view the image. If the content is an audio signal the host device enables the user to listen to the audio signal. While the user perceives the content the host prevents the user from capturing the content step . For example the host may prevent the user from saving and copying an image while that user is viewing the image. After the user finishes requesting the content the host device removes the content so that the user may no longer perceive the content step and presents information that indicates the potentially accessible content step .

When the user positions the cursor on top of the display area and clicks the mouse button an image is displayed as shown in . As soon as the user releases the mouse button the image disappears and the screen resumes the appearance shown in .

Accordingly the only way that the user can view the image is to click and hold the mouse button with the cursor on the display area . While the mouse button is pressed the image is displayed but other browser functions are unavailable. For instance while pressing the mouse button a user is unable to print or save the webpage by accessing the File menu . Accordingly the user is unable to use the File save or print features of the browser to capture the image because the only time that the File save operation is available to the user is when the mouse button is released and the image has disappeared.

Moreover as shown in the user is unable to use the browser s right click feature to save or print a copy of the image. Ordinarily in many browser applications clicking the mouse s right button while the cursor is positioned over an image brings up a menu such as menu in that provides the user with several options including printing and or saving the image. However the right click menu is not available when the user already is holding down the mouse s left button which as noted above is the only time that the image is displayed. Accordingly the user cannot use the right click menu to print or save the image . If the user right clicks the mouse button while the cursor is positioned over the display area that is where the image would appear if the left mouse button was depressed while atop the display area the resulting menu provides no option for saving an image because the cursor is not atop a presently displayed image. Moreover if the user selects the Print option from the menu the resulting hard copy print will appear similar to what is shown in FIG. that is the print out will not include the image shown in .

Details for implementing the mechanisms and techniques discussed above follow. In particular a source code listing is set forth below for a Java applet that was used to generate the screenshots of .

A first design parameter for the implementation is that the single image applet should be made secure for multiple clients and or servers.

A second design parameter for the implementation is that the actual applet that is displaying the image preferably would be displayed in a frame. The text in the frame may for example be CLICK . The image is displayed only when the users clicks and holds the mouse button. When the mouse button is released the image is no longer displayed. Regarding this second design parameter owners of images are often concerned with the security of their image files as well as with the ability of others to print the images. By requiring users to hold down their mouse buttons to view images the users ability to do a File Print is effectively disabled.

It should be understood that the above detailed description and specific examples are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

For brevity several elements in the figures described above are represented as monolithic entities. As would be understood by one skilled in the art however these elements each may include numerous interconnected computers and components designed to perform a set of specified operations and or dedicated to a particular geographical region.

The techniques methods and systems described here may find applicability in any computing or processing environment in which digital images can be viewed generated copied or otherwise manipulated. Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here may be realized in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations thereof. A system or other apparatus that uses one or more of the techniques and methods described here may be implemented as a computer readable storage medium configured with a computer program where the storage medium so configured causes a computer system to operate on input and or generate output in a specific and predefined manner. Such a computer system may include one or more programmable processors that receive data and instructions from and transmit data and instructions to a data storage system and suitable input and output devices. Each computer program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors.

Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Storage deices suitable for tangibly embodying computer instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM disks.

These elements also can be found in a conventional desktop or workstation computer as well as other computers suitable for executing computer programs implementing the methods described here which can be used in conjunction with any content viewing or manipulation software or any other software capable of displaying portions of a larger body of content. Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or implemented in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that advantageous results still could be achieved if steps of the disclosed techniques were performed in a different order and or if components in the disclosed systems were combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

For example as shown in the successive screenshots of the output of the Java applet may include a button labeled PRESS AND HOLD BUTTON TO VIEW IMAGE. When the user positions the cursor on top of the button and clicks the mouse button the image is displayed as shown in . As soon as the user releases the mouse button the image disappears and the screen would appear as in .

Accordingly the user views the image by clicking and holding the cursor on the button . Moreover as shown in the user is unable to use the browser s right click feature to save or print a copy of the image. If the user right clicks the mouse button while the cursor is positioned over the display area that is where the image would appear if the left mouse button was depressed while atop the button the resulting menu provides no option for saving an image because the cursor is not atop a presently displayed image.

