---

title: Reconfigurable wireless ultrasound diagnostic system
abstract: An untethered ultrasound imaging system having selectable command control and wireless component connection and image transmission. Ultrasound data collected by the ultrasound system can be augmented with additional sensor data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08221324&OS=08221324&RS=08221324
owner: Worcester Polytechnic Institute
number: 08221324
owner_city: Worcester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070504
---
This application is a U.S.C. 371 of PCT US2007 068234 filed May 4 2007 and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from provisional application Ser. No. 60 798 440 entitled RECONFIGURABLE WIRELESS ULTRASOUND DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM filed on May 5 2006.

This invention was made with United States Government support from TATRC Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center under contract number DAMD17 03 0006. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to an untethered ultrasound imaging system having selectable command control and wireless component connection and image transmission. Ultrasound data gathered by the ultrasound system can be augmented with additional sensor data.

The needs set forth above as well as further and other needs and advantages are addressed by the present invention. The solutions and advantages of the present invention are achieved by the illustrative embodiment described herein below.

For a better understanding of the present invention together with other and further objects thereof reference is made to the accompanying drawings and detailed description. The scope of the present invention is pointed out in the appended claims.

The present invention is now described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which the illustrative embodiment of the present invention is shown. The following configuration description is presented for illustrative purposes only. Any computer configuration satisfying the speed and interface requirements herein described may be suitable for implementing the system of the present invention.

Referring now to system can include but is not limited to including an output device such as for example head mounted display also referred to as headset an input device for example array microphone a use specific entity for example vest a power source for example Li Ion batteries ultrasound transducer operating with an ultrasound imaging system such as Terason 2000 3000 ultrasound front end and embedded computer A which can be a dual core processor with a hardware accelerator. Note that this specification does not limit the invention to a single type of transducer any type of transducer that satisfies the requirements of the invention can be used. Algorithms that take a significant amount of time to process can be implemented in a parallel fashion to take advantage of an optional dual core processor. System requires no infrastructure such as access to power table or desk. System is not limited to the use of Terason 2000 3000 rather it can encompass any ultrasound system that can be implemented in a modular fashion.

System can provide an ultrasound diagnostic system having untethered imaging command control by for example voice and image management for example wirelessly. In vest is shown in use. Headset also referred to herein as viewer is the illustrative output device for this application. Vest could include embedded cabling batteries could be positioned in breast pockets ultrasound transducer and front end could be positioned in lower front pockets and embedded computer A could be positioned in the back of vest for example attached to a belt. In the general case the use specific entity can be configured to hold enclosure power supply input device and ultrasound transducer and front end . To accompany the use specific device headset can be configured with output device and can be electronically coupled with embedded computer A. Communications among the components could be conducted wirelessly. The use specific entity could be tailored for such applications as military work emergency transport disaster and rescue expeditions space explorations and to aid in medical care in developing countries.

Continuing to refer to a major aspect of system is its reconfigurability which is achieved by adhering to the following requirements 1 embedded computer A can be configured with sufficient processing power for example multiple processors in order to execute imaging algorithms required for ultrasound processing 2 embedded computer A can be configured with sufficient memory for example 2 gigabytes to manipulate three dimensional data sets in real time 3 system can be configured to operate over a sufficient temperature range for example from 10 C. to 45 C. to enable usage in harsh envisioned climatic environments 4 system can be configured to be weather and dust resistant to enable outdoor operation 5 system can be configured to accommodate ruggedized connectors such as MIL SPEC connectors 6 system can be modular 7 system can be configured with a hardware co processor to enable two and three dimensional image processing in real time 7 system can be configured with a condition tolerant relatively low power consumption relatively fast start storage such as for example solid state disk drives 8 system can be configured to operate for extended periods of time for example 10 hours on non grid power 9 system can be configured to accept data from physiological sensors 10 system can be configured to support for multiple network interfaces 11 system can be configured with flexible antenna configurations for example external antennas to allow for maximizing antenna geometry for a particular application 12 system can be configured with an efficient way to manage power consumption for example a software controlled power supply.

Referring now to another use specific entity case is shown from the outside and also schematically. The components of system as described with respect to are also shown in . System can be packaged in any of several configurations whichever is best suited for the given imaging situation. Besides vest and case a belt for example containing internally all the necessary cabling and with the individual components configured in fanny bag type compartments could be used.

Referring now to possible components of system are pictorially illustrated. shows illustrative enclosure which can contain embedded computer A . shows illustrative ultrasound transducer and shows an illustrative power source batteries . shows an illustrative input device computer mouse device and shows illustrative helmet which can include microphone and shows illustrative headset which can include earphone . shows an illustrative viewing device removable display which can be for example a touch screen. Removable display can be configured with a touch keypad. Removable display can be connected in the same manner as the wearable viewer in headset . The touch screen as well as voice data may be used to annotate image such as for example in overlay. Also the touch screen can be used in the manipulation of on screen controls. The touch screen data are composited using alpha blending onto the images and presented to the user and or remote viewer as an integrated image. Images can be stored separately from the annotations.

Continuing to refer to image and system information viewing can be accomplished through headset or display both of which can be generally referred to as viewing device can be used for such purposes as for example to view ultrasound images power source status patient information communication equipment status physiological data A and medical data among other things. Viewing device can be wearable as shown in . The wearable viewer can be equipped with a standard Video Graphics Array VGA connection. System can provide a connector that contains a VGA interface. The wearable viewer can be directly connected to the system by a short adapter cable. Power for the wearable viewer can be supplied by a small battery. The VGA connector can be hermetically sealed and can meet MIL SPEC requirements to ensure that the electronics in sealed section A are properly sealed and ruggedized. System can accommodate several types of input devices including but not limited to a touch screen microphone a joystick and a computer mouse device .

Referring now to the environment in which system can execute can include but is not limited to including embedded computing platform which can include applications processor and server processor . Embedded computing platform can be electronically coupled with communications network to accommodate for example receiving remote information from client and sending ultrasound and other data to client among other uses for such a connection which can be wireless and can be facilitated by for example a standard 802.11 interface a cellular telephone or satellite communications such as Globalstar and Inmarsat. System can be controlled by voice commands and audio can be used for wireless internet connection or two way radio communication for Doppler sound or for voice annotation of ultrasound images.

Referring now to embedded computing platform can be encapsulated in enclosure to accommodate ruggedization of the device. Enclosure can be separated into multiple for example two internal compartments sealed section A and ventilation section B. Sealed section A can be hermetically sealed and protects all of the sensitive electronics. Ventilation section B can contain one or more cooling devices for example two fans that can be controlled by power supply controller . Sealed section A can be thermally coupled to ventilation section B which can remove excess heat using for example passive or forced convection. The forced convection is run at the minimum level required to keep the electronics operating in a safe temperature range to minimize power consumption. Sealed section A can be configured to enclose embedded computer A computer readable medium power supply and power supply controller and ventilation section B can be configured with at least one cooling device that can be controlled by cooling device controller . System is designed to be used in environments that are normally hostile to medical equipment. shows the inside of enclosure . The electronics of system are located in sealed section A which is separated from ventilation chamber B by heat sink . Thus any heat generated by the electronics of system are dissipated by ventilation chamber B without exposing the electronics of system to rain dust and rough handling which could render system useless.

Referring now primarily to system a ruggedized ultrasound imaging system can include but is not limited to including power supply controller configured to control power supply ultrasound transducer and front end configured to provide signal input device configured to receive input data from a user and embedded computer A electronically coupled with power supply power supply controller ultrasound transducer front end input device output device and computer readable medium . Embedded computer A can be configured to receive signal and formulate signal into image receive input data from input device communicate power supply data to power supply and power source through power supply controller and present image on said output device store input data in association with image in database configured to enable retrieval of the associated information. System can also include sealed enclosure configured to enclose embedded computer A a computer readable medium power supply and power supply controller . System can still further include a cooling device configured to maintain the temperature inside sealed enclosure . System can further include heat sink configured to separate cooling device from sealed enclosure and a temperature sensor A configured to control cooling device .

Continuing to refer primarily to system can still further include a use specific entity such as vest configured to package sealed enclosure power source ultrasound transducer and front end output device and input device . System could also be configured with headset that could be associated with output device . System can include wired and wireless communications capabilities to enable local type communications such as for example among embedded computer A input device and output device and also wide area communications such as for example communications between embedded computer A and a remote location. System can even still further include a three dimensional capable display configured to render three dimensional images. With respect to three dimensional capability of this system PCT US06 12327 filed on Mar. 30 2006 is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Three dimensional imaging can include a sensor suite and real time processing performed on a co processor to provide timely image orientation information to three dimensional reconstruction algorithms running within the applications processor . The three dimensional volume can be presented to the user as wither a rendered surface or a true three dimensional image if there exist appropriate display devices such as a stereo optical head mounted display using the system s client software.

Referring now to embedded computer A can include but is not limited to including applications processor and server processor . Applications processor can include but is not limited to including ultrasound transducer front end configured to communicate with ultrasound transducer database manager configured to communicate with database image processor configured to receive and transmit image which can include image loops and other data associated with image such as for example audio data text and patient information. Applications processor can further include image archiver configured to archive for example image which can include image loops physiological data A and medical data to database . Data such as patient information metrics and metadata for stored patient images or cine loops are stored in database for example a relational database. In one embodiment images cine loops and voice annotations can be stored on an NTFS partition. In an embodiment an Applications Programming Interface API rather than a query language can be used to directly access and update database information. Data can be stored and transmitted in compressed form which may or may not involve data loss. Stored images for example could be stored in compressed form without any loss of the original data by used of lossless compression such as Portable Network Graphic PNG . Stored voice annotations on the other hand can be stored in compressed form with possible data loss for example using a lossy compression format such as GSM 6.10.

Applications processor can also include image annotator configured to associate image with input data logging processor configured to track a plurality of commands configuration processor configured to couple embedded computer A with power supply computer readable medium speech recognition device ultrasound transducer and front end output device and input device . Applications processor can also include error handler configured to manage failures in embedded computer A three dimensional volumetric processor configured to present three dimensional images on output device and three dimensional sensor interface configured to process three dimensional data from ultrasound transducer and front end and provide the three dimensional data to three dimensional volumetric processor . Embedded computer A can also include server processor that can include but is not limited to including language processor configured to process a language such as a markup language such as XML used to enable communications between embedded computer A and a remote location and server interface process configured to transmit messages between embedded computer A and a remote location either through a wired or wireless connection and communications mechanism configured to provide interprocess communications between said applications processor and server processor by means of for example a pipe.

Referring now to B and system can further include at least one physiological sensor probe configured to measure physiological data A and at least one medical device configured to measure medical conditions. Embedded computer A can be dynamically reconfigured with other physiological sensor probes other medical devices other input devices and other output devices. Power sources such as batteries can be hot swappable. System can be augmented with additional physiological sensors such as for example pulse oximeter probe C ECG device B a spirometer camera A a wireless camera a blood gas analyzer and stethoscope D . With respect to examination camera A video data from camera A can be integrated into the ultrasound display to show the user what camera A is seeing. In one embodiment video from camera A can be provided by the DirectX API in WINDOWS and integrated into the display. A remote user using the client software can also view this video as an additional video stream. Examination camera A can be connected to the system by an adapter cable that can convert the composite video provided by camera A into a USB video device. Camera A can be powered by a battery.

Referring now to power source for example AC adapter can convert 120 240 VAC power into 24 VDC power to simultaneously power system and recharge power source . Alternatively the power source can be recharged from solar panels or any other kind of energy source. Smart batteries are batteries with integrated electronics to provide data such as for example current voltage and remaining capacity. When input device is configured as microphone system can be augmented by for example a conventional microphone an array microphone a wireless microphone Bluetooth or proprietary RF for example or a network microphone. Input device can be configured as for example a computer mouse for example a handheld optical mechanical wireless or three dimensional mouse a touch screen or a joystick. When output device is configured as viewing device such as a display system can be augmented by for example a conventional video monitor a television a head mounted display a three dimensional monitor a three dimensional head mounted display for example stereo optical a network display a handheld monitor or a wireless display. MiniCard a small form factor board used to implement the PCI Express interface on small computers and Mini PCI a standard for a computer bus for attaching peripheral devices to a computer motherboard in a small computer can provide interface functionality for various devices that could be configured with system . USB can provide an interface connection for these devices. System can be configured or reconfigured by creating a core platform that can include required and optional devices . One embodiment could include a 120 VAC adapter two smart batteries ultrasound transducer and front end array microphone stereo headphones a stereo optical head mounted display a handheld computer mouse all enclosed in case or bag . Another embodiment could include a 120 VAC adapter two smart batteries ultrasound transducer and front end a Bluetooth microphone and speaker a handheld monitor a touch screen all enclosed in a backpack. Thus the core platform can include one item from for example an ultrasound a front end a microphone a speaker a display an input device and a form factor such as for example a bag or a vest in addition to an AC adapter smart batteries and an embedded computing platform. In addition to the core platform optional interfaces such as for example for ECG pulse oximeter spirometer and smart stethoscope and antennas GPS devices still cameras and video cameras can be configured. Additional optional interfaces may require the addition of hardware within the embedded computing platform including a ruggedized enclosure such as for example a co processor and wireless processing devices. System can reconfigure itself to accommodate the addition of hardware and other options.

Referring now to the reconfigurable nature of physiological sensors can be accomplished using sensor manager and sensor drivers that are specific to each supported physiological sensor . Sensor manager can be responsible for selecting the appropriate sensor driver by means of a globally unique identifier GUID that is unique for each supported physiological sensor . Upon system initialization for non hot swappable physiological sensors or upon insertion or removal of a physiological sensor for hot swappable physiological sensors sensor manager can instantiate and configure the appropriate sensor driver for each supported physiological sensor . Each sensor driver although specific to a particular physiological sensor can belong to a class of physiological sensors . These classes can include pulse oximeter ECG stethoscope still camera video camera etc. Each sensor driver can have the same control interface and event interface for interaction with applications processor . Sensor driver can be responsible for translating control and data between the interface for physiological sensor such as USB Bluetooth Wireless USB proprietary RF infrared FireWire Mini PCI etc. . . . and control interface and event interface to the applications processor . This translation may include data mapping data translation and emulation.

Continuing to refer to event interface can carry the data from different physiological sensors via sensor driver in events that are specific to each class of supported physiological sensors . Sensor driver can be responsible for translating the data emanating from physiological sensor into event interface events specific to a particular class of physiological sensors . Each event interface data event can carry the GUID of the particular physiological sensor along with a payload that is defined by the class to which the physiological sensor belongs. Other events carried over event interface can contain contextual information about physiological sensor such as for example capabilities vendor information date of manufacture etc. . . . and can state specific information such as for example running stopped acquiring and low battery.

Continuing to still further refer to control interface can carry commands and control information from applications processor through sensor driver to physiological sensor . Control interface can be specific to each class of physiological sensors . Sensor driver can be responsible for translating the command emanating from applications processor through control interface into commands and control information specific to a particular physiological sensor . These commands can include but are not limited to including start stop reset and increase gain.

Continuing to even still further refer to the reconfigurable nature of physiological sensors can be accomplished using a sensor manager and a series of sensor drivers that are specific to each supported physiological sensor . A dynamic Graphical User Interface GUI can be used to present information on the attached sensors. Data from each sensor can be logged into database for off line or remote viewing as well as for trend analysis. Physiological sensors can be connected to system by means of a conventional USB port which is also used to power physiological sensor . External hardware can be used to adapt physiological sensors that do not include a USB interface. Each physiological sensor can be individually identifiable via an identifier that is unique to every USB peripheral. In one embodiment applications processor can access the identifier and select an arrangement for displaying the data based on the identifier.

Referring now to command can include but is not limited to including changing an imaging modality for image changing a focal depth of ultrasound transducer changing a gain of ultrasound transducer changing a color palette of ultrasound transducer entering patient information into database sequencing power source based on power supply data detecting abnormal power conditions based on power supply data correcting abnormal power conditions based on power supply data maintaining power source based on power supply data activating and deactivating cooling device based on the temperature of heat sink and a pre selected temperature of enclosure and storing images created from signals from ultrasound transducer and front end . Controller can control event and command traffic. Speech recognition device and computer mouse for example can provide commands to applications processor through command interface A while transducer for example can respond to events generated by applications processor and passing through event interface . View can provide data to for example two dimensional display audio or three dimensional display A through output interface .

Referring now to power supply controller can include but is not limited to including voltage monitor configured to monitor power supply data host interface configured to receive power supply data from power supply and power source send power supply data to power supply and power source and present power supply data at viewing device microcontroller configured to adjust power supply data power source charger configured to recharge power source temperature sensor A configured to measure heat emitted by embedded computer A and cooling device controller configured to control cooling device based on the measured heat and the temperature of heat sink .

Continuing to refer to power supply can include commercial off the shelf COTS voltage regulators and power supply controller PSC . PSC can integrate microcontroller voltage monitor host interface cooling device controller temperature sensor and power source charger onto a compact board. Microcontroller can allow software control of voltage regulators to efficiently use the available power as well as oversee recharging of power source for example batteries . Using on board voltage monitor microcontroller can sequence power sources depending on the operating state of system to achieve the lowest possible power usage. Voltage monitor can serve as a safety device by detecting and correcting abnormal conditions before damaging system or injuring the user. All of the information and events collected by the PSC can be available to embedded computer A for monitoring and determining condition based maintenance scheduling. Condition based maintenance can determine maintenance intervals based on actual system usage and wear instead of simply using some measure of operating time.

Continuing to still further refer to in one embodiment power can be provided to hardware as needed depending on operating conditions and can be managed by power source manager . For example ultrasound transducer can be powered off when not in use. Power can be further reduced by employing a staged power saving approach. System can monitor a user s activity and reduce power consumption accordingly by for example hibernating the system. Smart batteries can be used as a portable power source . Smart batteries can include a data bus that can be used to set and retrieve the information contained within batteries . This information can include for example the remaining capacity current voltage current draw and serial number. PSC can include an interface to the data bus and via host interface applications processor can access power source data for example smart battery information and provide a graphical display to the user. Power source data can also be used to detect low power conditions and take appropriate action to prevent loss of information and inform the user to swap power source or connect system to an AC adapter. Power source can include a plurality of batteries that are hot swappable.

Referring now to system can further include speech recognition device configured to receive audio data receive grammar A and provide recognition result and command to embedded computer A based on audio data and grammar A. Speech recognition device can consume audio samples and can return recognition result . Recognition result can be a data structure that can contain among other things an assigned number and a string representing what was recognized.

Referring now to the architecture of an embodiment can include two processes 1 ISUltrasound which integrates all of the system s software components including speech recognition power supply monitoring control ultrasound interface physiological sensor interfaces data management image processing remote transmission archival annotation logging configuration error handling server interface to server process metrics three dimensional volumetric imaging generation compression transmission and three dimensional sensor interface and 2 a server process executing in the Sun Java Virtual Machine JVM to provide server functionality for telemedicine applications including XML processing and client interface via Java RMI using TLS security. The server process is connected to the ISUltrasound process via a Windows named pipe for inter process communication. The ISUltrasound process enables remote clients to connect to the server upon which the process executes. Remote clients can discover the server s location on a properly configured network . The ISUltrasound process follows a model view controller design paradigm. Data model is implemented as a combination of a relational database A a file system B and in memory storage RAM C . View can include graphical and audio formats locally and remotely. Data such as for example ultrasound images speech samples pulse oximeter data and ECG data consumed by applications processor can be carried in the form of events . Commands can originate from sources such as for example speech recognition computer mouse touch screen or remotely. The system s client software is accessed using a Java Web Start deployment method includes functionality to remotely view live ultrasound images and telemetry from physiological sensors as well as three dimensional volumes and provides services for discovering a deployed system on the network. The system itself functions as a server for the client software. The ISUltrasound and Java server processors both perform some actions to reconfigure the system based on network conditions.

Continuing to refer to the ISUltrasound process uses the commercially available speech recognition software to implement a speech recognition system. The ISUltrasound process implements software to acquire speech data from a microphone either hardwired or Bluetooth pass the data to the commercially available speech recognition engine and then perform some action based on the recognition result. Some of the specific actions that can be performed by the speech recognition interface include changing the current imaging modality B Mode M Mode Color Doppler etc. changing the current focal depth changing the gain changing the color palette and entering patient information. Voice commands can be used to control any aspects of the system where voice command may be appropriate. In one embodiment the commercially available speech recognition engine relies on a grammar file written in augmented Backus Naur format BNF a format that specifies a context free language to generate the language that can be recognized by the speech recognition engine . In this embodiment the speech recognition engine requires no training to use it is speaker independent but is limited to understanding a language defined by the grammar. By confining the language to only those particular sentences that are relevant for a given situation the accuracy of the speech recognition engine is increased. In this embodiment a dynamic grammar is use so that for example when using a command that requires a yes or no response to confirm an action a grammar containing only the sentences yes or no is activated. In this embodiment an integer is assigned to any particular sentence in the grammar. Upon obtaining a successful recognition result the integer is used to dispatch a command. This allows for multiple sentences to result in the same command.

Referring now primarily to method for ruggedized ultrasound imaging can include but is not limited to the steps of electronically coupling embedded computer A power supply ultrasound transducer ultrasound front end output device input device and computer readable medium enclosing embedded computer A computer readable medium at least one device interface at least one communications interface and power supply in a sealed enclosure maintaining the temperature inside sealed enclosure with an external cooling device creating ultrasound images in embedded computer A from signal received from front end and ultrasound transducer providing ultrasound images to output device and storing ultrasound images in database . Method can further include the steps of thermally controlling the temperature of enclosure by cooling device and separating sealed enclosure from cooling device with heat sink . Method can further include the step of configuring sealed enclosure power source ultrasound transducer ultrasound front end output device and input device into a use specific entity. Method can still further include the steps of configuring sealed enclosure power source ultrasound transducer front end and input device into a use specific entity selected from the group consisting of clothing a bag and a saddle and selecting output device based on clinical and physical requirements from a group consisting of a wearable display a removable display a wireless display and a human limb mounted display.

Referring now primarily to method can further include the steps of configuring embedded computer A with at least one physiological sensor power source at least one output device and at least one medical device and dynamically reconfiguring embedded computer A with another physiological sensor another medical device another input device and another output device. Dynamically reconfiguring is herein defined to mean that one device for example physiological sensor can be exchanged for another physiological sensor without restarting system . Method can further include the steps of selecting the at least one input device from a group consisting of a touch screen microphone a joystick and computer mouse device configuring wireless communications between embedded computer A and input device and configuring wireless communications between embedded computer A and output device . Method can further include the steps of receiving input data into the embedded computer A from at least one input device determining command based on input data and events and controlling the steps of formulating ultrasound images providing ultrasound images and storing ultrasound images by command . Method can further include the steps of configuring at least one input device as microphone configuring embedded computer A with speech recognition device and microphone receiving audio data into embedded computer A from microphone transmitting audio data to speech recognition device receiving recognition result associated with audio data from speech recognition device determining grammar A and determining command based on recognition result grammar A and audio data .

Method can also include the optional steps of configuring the embedded computer A with power supply controller for controlling power supply receiving power supply data from power supply and power source through power supply controller electronically coupling power source with power supply sequencing the use of power source based on power supply data detecting abnormal power conditions based on power supply data correcting abnormal power conditions based on power supply data maintaining power source based on power supply data and activating and deactivating the cooling device based on the temperature of heat sink and a pre selected temperature of enclosure . Method can further include the step of configuring viewing device as a three dimensional display for viewing of surface rendered three dimensional images.

Referring primarily to method can be in whole or in part implemented electronically. Signals representing actions taken by elements of the system can travel over electronic communications. Control and data information can be electronically executed and stored on computer readable media . System can be implemented to execute on embedded computing platform node in communications network . Common forms of computer readable media can include but are not limited to for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CDROM or any other optical medium punched cards paper tape or any other physical medium with for example patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The integrated data and image management system can be configured so that a central person expert can log on to system . The expert can observe what a physician or EMT doing the scanning is currently observing or the expert can view the pre stored images and or video clips. Alternatively the scanning may be guided by a remote expert who can monitor and guide the operator as to which images to capture. In another embodiment system can be used for teaching so that the person who is scanning is broadcasting image information to many observers or students.

Auxiliary slave display types can be accommodated instead of or in addition to the head mounted display. One form of a display might be a PDA type device which can be attached to the left arm and wirelessly communicate with the ultrasound device. Such a PDA may serve many additional purposes such as reference material or medical history taking. A larger slave display such as a laptop may also be used for training or group discussions. With adequate bandwidth available real time images from any version of the system can be streamed to a remote expert for interpretation and guidance in scanning. In one embodiment batteries can have a capacity of 200 watt hours or higher in order to deliver sufficient power for a full day of operation. In one embodiment heat sink is a heavy duty aluminum plate. Many forms of microphones can be used with system as long as they meet requirements such as for example performing under noisy conditions and being unobtrusive. Likewise many types of displays can be used with system as long as they meet requirements such as for example weight restrictions image quality requirements resolution requirements brightness requirements and headphones requirements. The display can be configured to be moved out of view for an unobstructed view of the physical world. System can be compatible with a Personal Information Carrier PIC which is a physical portable electronic mechanism designed to store the essential elements of a soldier s personal medical history so they can be readily accessed and updated by first responder medical personnel via laptop or hand held computers when real time connectivity to a database is unavailable. System can include three dimensional viewing on a three dimensional capable display such as for example a stereo optical head mounted display.

Although the invention has been described with respect to various embodiments it should be realized that this invention is also capable of a wide variety of further and other embodiments.

