---

title: Method of generating a digital photo slide show from an optical disc
abstract: Before generating a digital photo slide show, both original digital photos and related media playing packages are burnt into a same optical disc. While the optical disc is loaded by a disc playing device, a media playing module installed on the optical disc playing device loads both the original digital photos and the related media packages on the optical disc, and generates a required digital photo slide show according to digital photos and media playing packages, both of which are chosen by a user, for preventing the problem of causing damage of resolution of the digital photos by repeatedly encoding said digital photos, and for management and reuse of said digital photos on the optical disc hereafter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07792000&OS=07792000&RS=07792000
owner: Cyberlink Corp.
number: 07792000
owner_city: Hsin-Tien, Taipei Hsien
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20070510
---
The present invention relates to a method of generating a digital photo slide show from an optical disc and more particularly to a method of generating a digital photo slide show from an optical disc without causing damage of the visual quality of the generated digital photo slide show.

After a large party suitable for being taped is held such as a wedding there are assistants for arranging videos taped during the party. The taped videos are then burnt into conventional digital versatile discs DVD for sharing the taped videos with people who joined the party or did not join the party. For the conventional taped videos digital photos are most popular means for sharing the taped videos with people who joined or did not join the party. Under a conventional circumstance the assistants collect a plurality of digital photos taken during the party was held and burn the plurality of digital photos on digital versatile discs for sharing with people who joined the party or did not join said party. However there are problems in the conventional circumstance. For example after the digital versatile discs which are burnt with the digital photo slide show are sent to people who joined or did not join the party if there are updates on said digital photo slide show and related to digital photos taken on the party where the updates may refer to increasing or decreasing digital photos in the original digital photo slide show original digital photos which have not been encoded into the original digital photo slide show have to be retrieved first and digital photos for updating are then added to the retrieved original digital photos for being encoded into an updated digital photo slide show. Moreover when the updates refer to updating transition effects of the original digital photo slide show the plurality of original digital photos has to be retrieved first also then the updated digital photo slide show may thus be generated by adding the updated transition effects. The above mentioned situations disadvantage the sharing and the management of the digital photos after said digital photos are burnt into digital versatile discs. Besides before generating the digital photo slide show the digital photos for generating said digital photo slide show have to be encoded first. However compressions along with encoding the digital photos affect resolutions of said digital photos and therefore the visual quality of said digital photos is decreased. Repeated encoding affects the digital photos more severely while conventionally updating digital photos in a digital photo slide show and related transition effects. For solving the abovementioned problems methods of burning the plurality of original digital photos along with the digital photo slide show are disclosed in the prior art however the disclosed methods result in occupying at least twice the amount of memory of the plurality of original digital photos on the digital versatile disc for storing all of the plurality of original digital photos the digital photo slide show and the related transition effects. Therefore it is still extremely unbeneficial for the management and the sharing of the digital photos in the disclosed conventional methods because it may require providing at least two digital versatile discs for each one who joined the party or did not join the party for entirely sharing the digital photos related to the party.

The claimed invention discloses a method of generating digital photo slide show. The method comprises copying a plurality of digital photos and a plurality of digital media playing packages onto an optical disc reading the plurality of digital photos and the plurality of digital media playing packages from the optical disc and generating a digital photo slide show according to the plurality of digital media playing packages. The plurality of digital media playing packages comprises media special effects special effect packages and a playing module both of which relate to the plurality of digital photos.

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

Therefore a method of generating a digital photo slide show from an optical disc without causing damage of the visual quality of the generated digital photo slide show is disclosed in the present invention for solving the abovementioned problems of the prior art.

Please refer to which is a flowchart of the method of generating a digital photo slide show from an optical disc in the present invention. The method illustrated in includes steps as follows 

Step Copy a plurality of digital media playing packages onto the optical disc where the plurality of digital media playing packages includes media special effect packages and a playing module both of which relate to the plurality of digital photos.

Step Read the plurality of digital photos and the plurality of digital media playing packages from the optical disc load the plurality of digital photos by the playing module and dynamically generate a digital photo slide show according to the plurality of digital media playing packages.

Note that the optical disc mentioned in the steps illustrated in may be a next generation optical disc such as a Blu ray disc and a high definition digital versatile disc HD DVD . However the method of the present invention may still be utilized on other kinds of optical discs even on optical discs that have not been invented and therefore replacing the kind of utilized optical disc in the method of the present invention should not be limitations to the present invention.

Compared with the prior art in Step merely a plurality of original digital photos is stored into the optical disc whereas the digital photo slide show is not stored into said optical disc. Therefore the memory for storing the digital photo slide show is saved where the visual quality of the stored plurality of original digital photos is kept.

In Step digital media playing packages are copied onto the optical disc along with the stored plurality of original digital photos where the copied digital media playing packages include necessary packages such as transition effect packages sound packages background music packages and a playing module. The playing module may be implemented with playing software firmware and hardware and may include modules such as the Java Virtual Machine. When the optical disc is a next generation optical disc such as a Blu ray disc or a high definition digital versatile disc HD DVD the digital media playing packages are written based on languages including Java Script and Markup language or based on packages including Java Xlets and are burnt into the optical disc.

In Step a disc playing device corresponding to the optical disc burnt with the plurality of original digital photos and related digital media playing packages is utilized. The plurality of original digital photos is loaded by the playing module and is then utilized for dynamically generating a corresponding digital photo slide show according to the digital media playing packages copied in Step where the generated digital photo slide show has special effect packages which include digital media special effect packages such as fade out packages. At last the generated digital photo slide show is directly displayed by the optical disc playing device.

Please refer to which is a block diagram illustrating how the optical disc playing device dynamically generates and displays the digital photo slide show in Step shown in . As shown in the optical disc is burnt with the digital photo group and the digital media playing package group . The digital photo group includes a plurality of digital photos having their original visual qualities. The digital media playing package group includes a plurality of media playing packages such as transition effect packages sound effect packages background music packages and a playing module. After the optical disc is loaded into the optical disc playing device the optical disc playing device loads both a required plurality of digital photos from the digital photo group with a built in media playing module which may be implemented with software firmware or hardware and a default corresponding plurality of digital media playing packages from the digital media playing package group . Therefore the digital photo slide show having special effects is dynamically generated under the environment provided by the optical playing device and with the loaded plurality of digital media playing packages.

Associations between digital photos of the digital photo group and digital media playing packages of the digital media playing package group may be predetermined before both the digital photo group and the digital media playing package group are burnt into the optical disc and related settings such as transition effects sound effects background music and the playing module of the digital photo slide flow may be burnt into the optical disc also. Therefore after both a plurality of digital photos from the digital photo group and an associated plurality of digital media playing packages from the digital media playing package group are loaded into the optical playing device the digital photo slide show having special effects may be generated according to digital media playing packages of the digital media playing package group . It indicates the fact that there must be fixed and predetermined associations between the digital photo group and the digital media playing package group for reducing memory occupied in the optical disc and for dynamically generating the digital photo slide show within the optical disc playing device .

Note that in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the media playing module installed on the optical disc playing device is driven by software such as the Java Virtual machine for executing and installing digital media playing packages which are based on Java Xlets or Java Script of the digital media playing package group . Moreover digital media playing packages of the digital media playing package group are generated by classifications of the application programming interface API of the Java language.

According to descriptions of both Step and the block diagram illustrated in the aim of dynamically generating a digital photo slide show without causing damage of the visual quality of original digital photos can be achieved in the present invention. The problem which results from generating digital photo slide shows by repeatedly retrieving different original digital photos and is unbeneficial for the management and the sharing of the updated digital photos of the prior art can thus be solved also. Moreover the generated digital photo slide show is no longer necessary to be stored along with the original digital photos onto the optical disc so that said optical disc may be repeatedly used to generate updated and different digital photo slide shows.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the appended claims.

