---

title: System and method for financial transactions
abstract: Disclosed are systems and methods for providing a financial transaction. The systems and methods provide techniques for providing an automated teller machine (ATM) and allowing a customer to operate the ATM at the ATM to complete the transaction. In addition, the customer, while at the ATM, can communicate with a representative at a centralized hub that is remote from the ATM and the representative can take control of the ATM to complete the transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08833639&OS=08833639&RS=08833639
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08833639
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070424
---
The present application is related to 1 U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 11 739 412 filed on Apr. 24 2007 and 2 U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 11 739 454 filed on Apr. 24 2007 both entitled System And Method For Financial Transactions the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Various embodiments of the disclosure pertain to a system and method for providing financial transactions and more particularly to a system and method which provide financial transactions using an automated teller machine ATM operable to be controlled at the ATM or remotely to complete the transaction.

Technology is forcing businesses to rethink their business models in order to survive in today s fast paced efficient business environment. Similarly technologically based personnel lean companies are forcing large companies to compete in terms of dollars saved rather than in terms of dollars earned. Therefore in order to compete on level ground large businesses are re engineering business processes to accommodate the demand for a low maintenance low overhead business model. One example of this is creating incentives for customers in the banking financial and insurance industries to use low overhead cost automatic teller machines ATMs and the Internet for transactions rather than high overhead cost face to face transactions. What makes the task arduous for the provider is balancing the shortcomings of the technology based personnel lean model with the cost service and efficiency demands of the 21century customer.

Banking financial and insurance institutions are exploiting recent advances in telecommunications as well as data storage and retrieval to increase their customer base by offering customers the convenience of banking purchasing financial investments or obtaining insurance anywhere via an ATM or the Internet. Thus advances in technology information storage and retrieval and communications have created a dichotomy in the banking financial and insurance industry between service such as face to face banking and solvency such as ATM computer Internet banking. Additionally ATMs Internet banking and other on line financial and insurance transactions only offer a small portion of services offered by face to face transactions at traditional brick and mortar institutions.

In light of the foregoing systems and methods are needed that work cohesively to provide convenience and service to banking financial and insurance customers while reducing overhead costs for providers are needed. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide an improved system and method for providing a financial transaction.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to systems and methods for providing financial transactions. The systems and methods provide techniques for providing an ATM and allowing a customer to operate the ATM at the ATM to complete the transaction. In addition the customer while at the ATM can communicate with a representative at a centralized hub that is remote from the ATM and the representative can take control of the ATM to complete the transaction.

Referring now to in one embodiment a system for providing a banking financial or insurance transaction is illustrated. In an embodiment the system may be used to provide a plurality of financial transactions known in the art such as for example banking transactions insurance transactions investment transactions and or a variety of other financial transactions. The system includes a computer or communication network such as for example a Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP network e.g. the Internet or an intranet . However any communication network can be used. A provider is operably coupled to the communication network preferably using a T1 or T3 communication line. A plurality of customers and are also operably coupled to the communication network in order to allow communication between the customers and and the provider . In an embodiment the provider includes a membership organization which provides a plurality of services for its members such as for example banking insurance financial services loan providing and or a variety of other services known in the art wherein the members include customers and . In an embodiment the provider includes anyone performing banking financial or insurance transactions for customers. In an embodiment the provider is a third party to a customer and a banking financial or insurance provider where the provider provides banking financial or insurance accounts for the customer. In an embodiment the customers and may be for example persons acquiring and using a banking financial or insurance account.

Each of the provider and the customers and includes a respective network interface for communicating with the communication network e.g. outputting information to and receiving information from the communication network such as by transferring information e.g. instructions data signals between such customers and the communication network . Accordingly through the communication network the provider communicates with the customers and and the customers and communicate with the provider .

For clarity depicts only one provider . However the system may include a plurality of providers. Likewise for clarity depicts only three customers and . However the system may include a plurality of customers. In the discussion below the customer is a representative one of the customers and .

Each of the provider and the customers and includes a respective information handling system IHS a subsystem or a part of a subsystem for executing processes and performing operations e.g. processing or communicating information in response thereto as discussed further below. Each such IHS is formed by various electronic circuitry components. Moreover as illustrated in all such IHSs are coupled to each other. Accordingly the provider and the customers and operate within the communication network .

An IHS is an electronic device capable of processing executing or otherwise handling information. Examples of an IHS include a server computer a personal computer e.g. a desktop computer or a portable computer such as for example a laptop computer or a handheld computer. Examples of an IHS also include a router a switch and other devices coupled to a network e.g. the communication network .

Referring now to an IHS which is representative of one of the IHSs described above is illustrated. The IHS may include any or all of the following a a processor for executing and otherwise processing instructions b a plurality of input devices which are operably coupled to the processor for inputting information c a display device e.g. a conventional electronic cathode ray tub CRT device or a conventional liquid crystal display LCD which is operably coupled to the processor for displaying information d a print device e.g. a conventional electronic printer or plotter which is operably coupled to the processor for printing visual images e.g. textual or graphic information on paper scanning visual images and or faxing visual images e a computer readable medium which is operably coupled to the processor for storing information as discussed further below and f various other electronic circuitry for performing other operations of the IHS known in the art.

For example the IHS includes a a network interface e.g. circuitry for communicating between the processor and the communication network and b a memory device e.g. random access memory RAM device or read only memory ROM device for storing information e.g. instructions executed by processor and data operated upon by processor in response to such instructions . Accordingly the processor is operably coupled to the communication network the input devices the display device the print device and the computer readable medium as illustrated in

For example in response to signals from the processor the display device displays visual images. Information may be input to the processor from the input devices and the processor may receive such information from the input devices . Also in response to signals from the processor the print device may print visual images on paper scan visual images and or fax visual images.

The input devices include a variety of input devices known in the art such as for example a conventional electronic keyboard and a pointing device such as for example a conventional electronic mouse rollerball or light pen. The keyboard may be operated to input alphanumeric text information to the processor and the processor may receive such alphanumeric text information from the keyboard. The pointing device may be operated to input cursor control information to the processor and the processor may receive such cursor control information from the pointing device.

The computer readable medium and the processor are structurally and functionally interrelated with one another as described below in further detail. Each IHS of the illustrative embodiment is structurally and functionally interrelated with a respective computer readable medium similar to the manner in which the processor is structurally and functionally interrelated with the computer readable medium . In that regard the computer readable medium is representative of such computer readable media including for example but not limited to a hard disk drive.

The computer readable medium stores e.g. encodes records or embodies functional descriptive material e.g. including but not limited to software also referred to as computer programs or applications or data structures . Such functional descriptive material imparts functionality when encoded on the computer readable medium . Also such functional descriptive material is structurally and functionally interrelated to the computer readable medium

With such functional descriptive material data structures define structural and functional interrelationships between such data structures and the computer readable medium and other aspects of the system . Such interrelationships permit the data structures functionality to be realized. Also within such functional descriptive material computer programs define structural and functional interrelationships between such computer programs and the computer readable medium and other aspects of the system . Such interrelationships permit the computer programs functionality to be realized.

For example the processor reads e.g. accesses or copies such functional descriptive material from the computer readable medium onto the memory device of the IHS and the IHS more particularly the processor performs its operations as described elsewhere herein in response to such material which is stored in the memory device of the IHS . More particularly the processor performs the operation of processing a computer application that is stored encoded recorded or embodied on a computer readable medium for causing the processor to perform additional operations as described elsewhere herein . Accordingly such functional descriptive material exhibits a functional interrelationship with the way in which processor executes its processes and performs its operations.

Further the computer readable medium is an apparatus from which the computer application is accessible by the processor and the computer application is processable by the processor for causing the processor to perform such additional operations. In addition to reading such functional descriptive material from the computer readable medium the processor is capable of reading such functional descriptive material from or through the communication network which is also a computer readable medium or apparatus. Moreover the memory device of the IHS is itself a computer readable medium or apparatus.

Referring now to and the provider is illustrated in more detail. A customer communication engine which may be for example software stored on the computer readable medium in the IHS is included in the provider and is operably coupled to the communication network described above with reference to and to a customer information database . A remote teller engine which may be for example software stored on the computer readable medium in the IHS or a representative of the provider is included in the provider and is operably coupled to the customer communication engine and to the communication network described above with reference to . An automated teller machine ATM interaction engine which may be for example software stored on the computer readable medium in the IHS or a representative of the provider is included in the provider and is operably coupled to the customer communication engine and to the communication network described above with reference to . In an embodiment the customer information database is a conventional database known in the art. In an embodiment the customer information database may be located outside the provider and still operably coupled to the provider and the customer communication engine through for example the communication network described above with reference to . In an embodiment the customer information database includes a plurality of databases. In an embodiment the provider is a membership organization and the customer information database includes a variety of previously collected information on members of the membership organization. In an embodiment the customer information database is a publicly available database. In an embodiment the customer information database is a private database which is available to be accessed by the provider . In an embodiment a remote ATM is communicatively connected to the communication network to use for banking financial and or insurance transactions.

It is to be understood that the phrase financial transaction in this application can mean any transaction that can be performed at a banking or savings and loan type institution such as for example opening closing an account depositing withdrawing purchasing cashiers checks obtaining a loan and or a variety of other banking or savings and loan transactions known in the art. The term financial transaction in this application can also mean any financial transaction performed with a financial institution such as for example purchasing stocks bonds mutual funds individual retirement accounts IRAs and or a variety of other financial transactions known in the art. Additionally the term financial transaction in this application can mean a transaction performed with an insurance institution such as for example purchasing an insurance policy making a claim on an existing policy printing a proof of insurance form and or a variety of other insurance transactions known in the art. Furthermore the term financial transaction in this application can mean any other transaction for products or services.

It is also to be understood that the phrase automated teller machine or ATM in this application means any automated device that allows a customer to perform financial transactions as described above and is not limited to banking transactions. Thus an ATM of the present application may be for example a kiosk machine personal computer terminal and or a variety of other computing devices capable of communicating over a communications network to perform financial transactions.

Referring now to an embodiment of a system for conducting financial transactions is illustrated. In this embodiment a transaction monitoring station or centralized hub is communicatively connected to the communication network . The centralized hub is a center having one or more representatives available to operate IHSs such as the IHS of that allow interaction with one or more remotely located ATMs over the communication network . The ATMs can be located anywhere they may communicate with the communication network . In an embodiment there may be any number of centralized hubs interacting with any number of ATMs .

In an embodiment the IHSs used by the representatives include data audio and video communication such as teleconferencing or closed circuit communications available to communicate between the computing device at the centralized hub and the ATMs . This communication may be managed or driven by the ATM interaction engine and the customer communication engine of . The representatives at the centralized hub may use the remote teller engine to take operational control of the ATMs . Therefore the operators at the centralized hub may perform transactions from the centralized hub as if they were at the ATM . Thus with a combination of the customer communication engine the remote teller engine and the ATM interaction engine the representative at the centralized hub may interact using audio and video communications with a customer located at for example the ATM and assist the customer to complete any financial transaction desired by the customer at the ATM . Alternatively the representative at the centralized hub may take control of the ATM to complete the financial transaction for the customer .

Referring now to an embodiment of a system for providing financial transactions is illustrated. In the system the centralized hub communicates with the customer information database to obtain customer information related to the financial accounts of the customer . The representative at the centralized hub may communicate with a customer at an ATM or remotely located virtual banks . Data transfer between the centralized hub and the customer information database may pass over a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet and or a variety of other communication networks. Data transfer may also pass through a firewall or other security measures as commonly known in the art. Communication and data transfer between the centralized hub and the ATMs and or the virtual banks may pass through routers switches gateways and etc. as needed to provide a secure communication network and supporting hardware and software as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Referring now to and an embodiment is illustrated of an ATM that may be connected to the communication network . In this embodiment the ATM includes an application programming interface API for providing communication between a processor and the communication network . For integrating various peripheral devices to the processor the ATM includes a media card an input card device and a device manager communicatively connected to the API . These and a variety of other devices known in the art may or may not be used to facilitate data and communication transfers between the ATM and the centralized hub .

The media card integrates output from the API and the processor to a video display a picture in picture PIP on the video display and a speaker . The video display displays on a display device such as for example a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD and or a variety of other types of display devices known in the art allowing the customer at the ATM to view options or other communication messages to interact with the ATM to complete a financial transaction. In an embodiment the video display is capable of displaying a PIP image. This PIP image may be used to display a video image of a representative at the centralized hub . The speaker may be used to transmit audio messages and or vocal communications from a representative at the centralized hub . By having a video image of the representative at the centralized hub along with an audio of the vocal communication of the representative the customer may interact with the representative as if the representative were located at the remote ATM . This creates a virtual teller for the customer to interact with to complete financial transactions eliminating the need for a bricks and mortar building at each ATM location. If the customer has questions about the transaction or cannot complete the transaction for some reason the customer may contact the representative for help. As described above the representative at the centralized hub may take control of the ATM to complete the transaction for the customer . However if the customer chooses the customer may complete the financial transaction without the aid of the representative.

To allow the representative at the centralized hub to receive communications from the customer in an embodiment the ATM includes a microphone and a video camera for transmitting audio and video from the ATM to the centralized hub via the media card the API the processor and the communication network . This creates a closed circuit audio video communication between the ATM and the centralized hub .

The input card device receives input signals from a number pad a plurality of customer or customer buttons a magnetic strip reader and or an integrated circuit IC chip reader and allows the customer to communicate to the ATM and or the representative at the centralized hub . The number pad and the customer buttons may be integrated into the video display device for example if the video display device is a touch screen type display device. The magnetic strip reader and the IC chip reader are common in the industry and are used for reading information such as personal information and account information from a banking credit card type device. In addition biometric reading devices not shown may be included on the ATM and used to identify a customer . Biometric reading devices generally read unique bodily biometric data using devices such as for example fingerprint scanners eye scanners and a variety of other unique bodily feature scanners. These biometric reading devices may be integrated with the processor and serve as a testing device to ensure that the customer is authorized to access the respective accounts using the ATM . If the customer does not pass the biometric device test the user may not be allowed to access the account.

Generally transactions at the ATM begin with the customer inserting a banking credit account card into reader or . Depending on the type of card the ATM then prompts the customer to enter other information such as for example a personal identification number PIN and the type of transaction desired. One of skill in the art will recognize that magnetic strips and IC chips are commonly used on banking credit cards to provide account information. The readers may be slide in type readers proximity type readers or any other type of reader device for reading information from the account card. Additionally biometric devices may be included on the ATM and used to determine customer identity and related account information. In other words the customer may only need to submit to a biometric reading device for the ATM to properly identify the customer and associate the customer with the related account or accounts that the customer has authorization to access.

The device manager integrates the API and the processor with a cash dispenser apparatus a check sheet writer dispenser apparatus a receipt writer dispenser apparatus a cash account card writer dispenser apparatus a check reader scanner apparatus and a currency reader apparatus . The cash dispenser apparatus counts and dispenses cash currency to the customer when instructed to do so by the processor . In addition the cash dispenser apparatus may report to the processor when the ATM is low on currency or out of currency. The check sheet writer dispenser apparatus receives instructions from the processor and prints and dispenses items such as money orders cashiers checks and any other type document. For example the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus can be used to print new or existing bank or investment account information or statements insurance policies proof of insurance cards stock or annuity certificates and or a variety of other documents known in the art. The check sheet writer dispenser apparatus may also be used to imprint or emboss the printed documents such as for example raised numbers or raised seals. The receipt writer dispenser apparatus may be used in a similar manner as the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus and may also be used for printing and dispensing receipts about the financial transaction for the customer . The cash account card writer dispenser apparatus may be used to electronically code or set up print emboss and dispense credit and debit type account cards.

The check reader scanner apparatus is used to receive documents and scan them using methods known in the art. Once the document has been scanned the ATM and or the representative at the centralized hub may validate the document for the transaction. In addition the check reader scanner apparatus may check security features on the document such as for example water marks security codes and or a variety of other security features known in the art. The check reader scanner apparatus may also retain or return the scanned documents to the customer . The currency reader apparatus may be used to receive and count cash or currency into the ATM . The currency reader may check the currency to ensure that the inserted currency is legal tender and not a forgery.

Referring now to skeleton views of an embodiment of the cash dispenser apparatus and the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus are illustrated. These dispensers each have a dispenser outlet and respectively for dispensing currency or a document from the ATM to the customer . In an embodiment the dispensers and are theft and tamper resistant to prevent vandalism and theft. Document trays and allow the dispensers and respectively to hold and dispense different denominations of currency or different types of documents. In an embodiment the dispensers and have conveying systems such as for example transport guides and respectively on the dispensers and . The transport guides and move the different denominations of currency or different documents to the outlets and respectively. In addition the transport guides and may move the document trays and respectively to the outlets and so that counters not shown can count and dispense the documents. Additionally the ATM may have a coin counter and dispenser not shown if desired. Any country and denomination of currency may be used in the currency dispenser . Similarly as described above the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus may be used to print and dispense any type of document desired to complete desired transactions.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for printing documents using the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus is illustrated. The method begins at step with an internal procedure within the ATM and processor to initialize or set up the print protocol. The print protocol is called print protocol X and may be any system or method for printing as understood by those skilled in the art such as for example an instruction or series of instructions in software code such as for example the ATM interaction engine and or the remote teller engine used to cause the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus to print. The method proceeds to decision block where it is inquired whether there is a desired sheet to print on available in the document tray for protocol X. If no sheet to print on is available in the document tray to print the method proceeds to step where the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus sends a return message to the processor that no sheet is available to complete the printing request and the sequence stops. However if there is a sheet available the method proceeds to step where the document tray supplies the desired sheet from one of the document trays to the printing or check writing portion of the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus . The method then proceeds to decision block where the printing portion or check writing portion of the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus inquires whether there is a sheet to print on available in the printing portion of the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus . If no sheet is available in the printing portion of the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus to print the method proceeds to step where the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus sends a return message to the processor that no sheet is available to complete the printing request and the sequence stops. If there is a sheet in the printing portion of the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus the method proceeds to step where the printing portion of the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus prints the desired document using print protocol X and dispenses the document via the dispenser outlet at . The method then proceeds to step where the check sheet writer dispenser apparatus returns a print complete message to the processor . Other steps in printing documents can be added or deleted as necessary to obtain the desired results for printing documents.

Referring now to and a plurality of embodiments of display screen images are illustrated that may be displayed using the video display illustrated in and used to facilitate financial transactions using the ATM . illustrates a banking transactions screen shot . The banking transactions screen shot provides a plurality of selection icons to allow the customer to interact with either the ATM or the representative and to input data to complete the desired transaction. Thus any number of selection icons can be used. The customer s desired choice may be input using corresponding customer buttons the number pad or by simply touching the icon if a touch screen display device is used. Additionally the customer may select the help or contact teller icon . As described above if a customer desires the assistance of a teller or representative a representative from the centralized hub can communicate with the customer to answer questions help the customer to complete the transaction or even take control of the ATM to complete the transaction for the customer .

In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to issue a certified check from the ATM . In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to issue a money order from the ATM . In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to issue cash prepaid cards from the ATM . In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to issue a cashiers check from the ATM . In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to issue a travelers check from the ATM . In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to proceed to a Main Menu screen.

In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to move character selection icon to the left. In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to use the character highlighted by the character selection icon in the pay to the order of field . In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to move character selection icon to the right. In an embodiment selection icon instructs the ATM to follow procedures to use the characters entered into the pay to the order of field during the transaction.

Referring now to and an embodiment of a method for operating the ATM is illustrated. It is understood that other sequences of events may take place during the course of financial transactions depending on what type of transactions the customer is performing. The method begins at step . In the illustrated embodiment a customer inserts a bank account card into the reader device or on the ATM . The method proceeds to step where the ATM requests a PIN to ensure that the customer using the account card is the authorized card holder. The method proceeds to decision block where the ATM determines if a correct PIN has been entered. If a correct PIN has not been entered the method proceeds to step where the sequence ends and the ATM will not allow a transaction to occur. If a correct PIN has been entered the method proceeds to step where the ATM will display a main menu and allow the customer to proceed with a transaction. During the transaction the customer is allowed to request help from a live teller or representative or from a computerized avatar. A computerized Avatar may be a virtual system capable of interacting with the customer making decisions and issuing commands. The method proceeds to decision block where the ATM determines if the customer has requested help. If the customer has not requested help the method proceeds to step and the customer is allowed to complete the transaction as commonly done using ATMs. If the customer has requested help the method proceeds to step where a representative at the centralized hub may appear on the video display as a PIP and will communicate with the customer to assist with the transaction and or take over control of the ATM . The method then proceeds to step where the representative completes the transaction for customer . Once all the desired transactions are completed the method proceeds to step where the ATM will return the account card to the customer .

When the customer requests that the representative to take over control of the ATM the representative may activate software on an IHS at the centralized hub allowing the representative to see the same screen images shown on the ATM. In addition the representative may have the ability to see and hear the customer via a closed circuit audio video conference. The representative may be operable to electronically press or otherwise activate the user buttons or the number pad from the IHS using software and the communication network . The representative may also be operable to electronically initiate operations at the ATM . In an embodiment the representative may instruct the customer to provide an account card a PIN biometric data a type of transaction desired and or a variety of other information via the ATM to the representative to assist in the transaction. When the proper items or data have been supplied to the representative the representative may instruct the ATM to perform the necessary functions to complete the transaction such as for example receive payment and to print emboss and dispense a bearer instrument such as for example a money order a certified check a cashiers check a travelers check and or a prepaid debit card. The representative may also for example receive payment via a credit card cash check or bank account to purchase an insurance policy and then print and dispense the policy. The representative may also for example modify an investment account for the customer and then print and dispense a statement relating the account or the modification for the customer at the ATM . By controlling the ATM remotely the representative may be operable to receive information from any of the devices associated with the ATM and to also instruct any of the devices associated with the ATM to perform a variety of other financial transactions. The ATM may require the customer to give consent to have the representative take control of the ATM by requiring the customer to input a command on the ATM to allow the representative to take control of the ATM . Because the ATM is communicatively connected to the centralized hub via the communication network an ATM may notify the centralized hub if any operational problems so that the representative may dispatch repair personnel.

In an exemplary transaction a customer may walk up to an ATM and insert a banking card into the card reader to begin the transaction. The ATM will request that the customer enter a PIN to ensure the customer is authorized to access the account. If the customer has questions about the account or the transaction or the customer does not understand how to complete the transaction the customer may press the help or contact teller icon and a teller or representative may appear as a PIP image so that the representative and customer may have a closed circuit teleconference using audio and video to simulate face to face interaction between the representative and the customer . Once the representative has answered the customer s questions the PIP may disappear and the customer may complete the transaction on the ATM . Alternatively if the customer does not understand how to complete the transaction or just wants the feel of having a teller representative complete the transaction like at a brick and mortar bank the representative may take control of the operation of the ATM from the centralized hub and just have the customer insert the proper information or documents into the ATM such as a withdrawal slip into the reader and the representative may instruct the ATM to dispense currency from the ATM to complete the withdrawal. Similarly the customer may insert a deposit slip into the reader and currency into the currency reader and the representative can complete the deposit transaction. If desired the customer may press the help or contact teller icon before doing anything to get help from the representative for all steps in the transaction.

In another exemplary transaction using the ATM a customer may be walking past the ATM and hear an advertisement about insurance investments or other products or services coming from the video display device and the speaker . In this case the customer may 1 listen to the advertisement playing on the ATM 2 read more information by selecting a customer button and then complete a purchase or transaction and or 3 contact a teller representative for live information and interaction about the available products or services offered by the provider and then interact with the representative to complete the transaction.

These examples of transactions are only a small sampling of the unlimited possibilities using the interactive ATM . Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the interaction between the representative at the centralized hub and the customer at the ATM allow the ATM to be used for any type of transaction for goods or services and improves customer service without having a need for the high overhead cost of facilities and staff.

In light of the previous embodiments of the ATM may be located world wide and perform essentially as stand alone banking investment and insurance financial centers allowing real time face to face communications twenty four hours a day seven days a week with a live representative via closed circuit audio video. The ATMs may be stand configured as walk up drive up or otherwise. The representative for the system may be an automated computerized avatar capable of interacting with the customer and performing tasks. A customer may receive assistance for any type of service desired. This system and method significantly reduces the overhead costs of building complete financial centers yet provides similar services and results. The ATM may be located in existing banks stores military bases police stations etc. The systems and methods of the present application may be in compliance with applicable ISO ISE parameters and adherence to ISO 8583 and ANSI X4.16 protocols.

Although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the embodiments may be employed without a corresponding use of other features. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein.

