---

title: Soft MEMS
abstract: A microscale polymer-based apparatus comprises a substrate formed from a first polymer material and at least one active region integrated with the substrate. The at least one active region is patterned from a second polymer material that is modified to perform at least one function within the at least one active region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08431080&OS=08431080&RS=08431080
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08431080
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070601
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 810 799 filed Jun. 2 2006 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

This invention was made with Government assistance under Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA Grant No. FA9550 05 1 0459. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

It is known to incorporate polymer materials such as elastomers into microscale devices for structural purposes while relying on non polymer materials such as metals in such devices for performing active device functions. In some applications however use of metal components introduces problems for example due to a lack of robustness or conformity of the devices used.

According to example embodiments of the invention a microscale polymer based apparatus is provided. The apparatus comprises an insulating substrate formed from a first polymer material and at least one active region embedded in the substrate. The at least one active region is patterned from a second polymer material that is modified to be conductive and perform at least one function within the at least one active region.

According to other embodiments of the invention a method of forming a microscale polymer based device is provided. In an example method a photoresist is patterned on a substrate to provide a photoresist mold. A modified polymer is applied to the photoresist mold to form at least one modified polymer structure. The patterned photoresist is removed and nonmodified polymer is formed around the at least one modified polymer structure to provide a nonmodified polymer structure and capture the at least one modified polymer structure within the nonmodified polymer structure. The at least one modified polymer structure and the nonmodified polymer structure are released from the substrate.

It is desirable to create devices that can be handled directly take advantage of the unique characteristics of composite elastomers and allow applications that require conformal and robust materials. Preferred embodiments of the present invention provide preferably all polymer devices with embedded sensors or other active components. Such devices provide improved robustness and reduce or eliminate the need for silicon or metal parts in particular sensors.

Generally a preferred structure includes a monolithic integration of at least two polymer based materials differing in at least one property. The two types of polymer materials may be for example a modified polymer e.g. a polymer composite and the same polymer without modification. In an exemplary embodiment a polymer is mixed or otherwise combined or treated with another material to provide the modified polymer e.g. polymer composite with new properties and thus making the modified polymer functional. Such properties as nonlimiting examples may make the polymer conductive or sensing e.g. signal producing . Exemplary nonlimiting materials that may be mixed with a polymer to provide additional properties include metal powder e.g. nickel for increasing conductivity multi walled carbon nanotubes MWNT for conductivity carbon black aluminum nitrate for thermal sensitivity silicon dioxide to make the polymer porous molecules that combine to induce swelling or electrical charge a biological agent an enzyme chemical markers and others.

In a preferred method for forming a structure a polymer is combined e.g. mixed with one or more materials to provide new properties for a modified polymer and one or more different regions of the modified polymer are integrated with e.g. formed in or on the other e.g. non modified polymer to provide active regions. For example the polymer composite may be micropatterned. Generally a region including the polymer having the additional property such as the modified polymer is encapsulated or separated by the other non modified or nonfunctional polymer.

An exemplary method for forming regions in a single layer fabrication process includes patterning a photoresist mold on a substrate applying the composite or modified polymer to the mold removing excess composite or modified polymer removing the mold to leave patterned modified polymer behind spin casting the unmodified polymer and peeling off the structure from the substrate. However other elastomer patterning techniques may be used such as techniques for defining microfluidic or pneumatic channels. Further multiple layers may be combined to create more complex devices.

Electrical connections between the formed active regions may be provided by for example forming conductive paths using the modified e.g. composite material between the active regions and outside devices. Alternatively liquid metals may be applied to the device such as but not limited to Gallium Indium tin mercury etc. to improve localization of the active regions.

It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that various types of structures may be formed according to embodiments of the present invention and that the specific structures polymer modifications polymers patterns etc. described in examples herein are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention to such examples. Forming active regions may as nonlimiting examples include forming a series of freestanding and or embedded wires on or in a substrate gaskets valves heaters sensors or any of various layers and or structures. The modified polymer may be used in an integrated polymer based structure to provide any of various applications including but not limited to capacitive plates tactile sensors strain gauges etc.

Such integration for example can result in strips or other patterned pieces of polymer that are functionalized or active. For example clear polymer sheets may be provided having strips functioning like metal but made of polymers. The particular modifications including the material s to be used the ratio for combining or treating etc. and the pattern or region formed from the modified polymer with respect to the non modified polymer may vary depending on the desired application.

Particular example devices according to the present invention use modified and unmodified PDMS polydimethylsiloxane elastomer. PDMS is widely used in MEMS. However PDMS is non conductive and as a result elastomers such as PDMS have played a large but mainly structural role in MEMS serving as protective layers encapsulants valve diaphragms fluidic channel structures etc.

A number of active devices have been made using modified elastomers including organic vapor sensors liquid sensors force sensitive resistors and ultrasonic emitters. Such devices use elastomers mixed with solid fillers such as carbon black MWNT or metallic powders to give the resulting composite material desired properties. Researchers have also captured metal films in PDMS layers to create elastomer tactile sensors. More recently work has been done to capture in situ grown MWNT in PDMS to create strain gauges and field emission devices.

According to embodiments of the present invention wholly polymer based devices with embedded elastomer wires electrodes heaters sensors etc. can be realized by monolithic integration of modified e.g. conductive and unmodified e.g. non conductive PDMS. Using such integration elastomer strain gauges capacitive pressure sensors microfluidic channels with integrated heaters and sensors and various other devices are possible providing MEMS capabilities in soft devices. An example device fabrication process according to embodiments of the present invention uses a series of PDMS patterning micromolding and bonding techniques with conductive PDMS features made by mixing with multiwall carbon nanotubes MWNT .

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention provide devices that can be handled directly take advantage of the unique characteristics of composite elastomers and allow applications that require conformal and robust materials. By combining spin casting and molding one can provide a number of all elastomer devices with embedded conductors and sensors.

In example devices conductive PDMS is incorporated within structural insulating PDMS substrates to realize devices having functional regions of conductive PDMS. An exemplary fabrication process is provided for such incorporation according to embodiments of the present invention. Referring now to the drawings the example process begins with the vapor coating of chlorotrimethylsiloxane CTMS on a substrate to assist in the release of the final elastomer assembly . Next photoresist PR is spun and patterned to define the molds for the conductive PDMS .

PDMS is then mixed with multiwalled carbon nanotubes MWNT to make a conductive composite. The ratio of MWNT to PDMS elastomer is chosen depending on the desired application and performance of the device. In example devices having simple conductors for capacitive sensors or resistive heaters a large amount of MWNT may be added to increase the conductivity of the composite. In the case of strain or force sensitive devices a lower loading of MWNT may be desired to increase sensitivity. Details on the conductivity of PDMS and MWNT composites can be found in J. M. Engel J. Chen N. Chen S. Pandya and C. Liu Multi Walled Carbon Nanotube Filled Conductive Elastomers Materials and Application in Micro Transducers IEEE International Conference on MEMS 2006. In an exemplary device 10 by weight MWNT is mixed with Sylgard 184 PDMS to form the conductive PDMS.

Once the MWNT and PDMS have been mixed the conductive PDMS is applied to the PR mold and patterned to form one or more conductive PDMS structures . An example patterning method is described in K. Ryu X. Wang K. Shaikh and C. Liu A method for precision patterning of silicon elastomer and its applications Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems vol. 13 pp. 568 575 2004. Excess conductive PDMS after application may be removed for example using a blade. The patterned elastomer is cured at 90 C. for 10 minutes and the PR mold is removed for example in acetone . The conductive PDMS structures are then captured by either spin or pour casting unmodified PDMS around them . The resulting assembly is cured at 90 C. for 30 minutes in a leveled oven before being removed for example peeled from the substrate .

This exemplary process can be combined with other traditional elastomer patterning techniques such as those used for defining microfluidic or pneumatic channels. Multiple layers can also be combined to create complex devices such as but not limited to capacitive pressure sensors.

For example shows a PDMS tactile sensor sheet. The sensor sheet includes an array of electrodes shown in black made of conductive PDMS and embedded in transparent nonconductive PDMS skin. It will be appreciated that the number specific pattern etc. of the individual electrodes can be varied. The device provides for example a soft capacitive tactile sensor sheet.

Other nonlimiting examples of devices include elastomer strain gauges. shows a sheet of unmodified clear PDMS with an embedded strain gauge of conductive PDMS. The strain gauge extends generally along the length of the unmodified PDMS sheet shown in perimeter by dashed white lines. In an example operation of the strain gauge shown in applied strain alters the average spacing between conductive particles in conductive PDMS within unmodified clear PDMS and therefore alters a resistance reading. Thus the strain is transduced as a change in resistance. In general tensile strain causes increased resistance while compressive strain decreases mean particle spacing and decreases resistance. In contrast to existing semiconductor and metal strain gauges the exemplary all elastomer strain gauge shown in can repeatably measure large strains e.g. 1 . Embedded in the insulating elastomer the strain gauge undergoes the same strain as the bulk PDMS surviving large deformations typical of elastomers. shows sample data collected with an Agilent 34401A multimeter from an elastomer strain gauge such as that shown in undergoing large 25 strain while being manually stretched.

Another example device using conductive and nonconductive PDMS shown in includes a nonconductive PDMS sheet having embedded conductive flow sensors. Conventionally a rigid substrate is needed to bring heaters or sensors into close proximity to microfluidic channels and reaction chambers. Compliant total analysis systems such as required for implantation or use with wearable labs cannot be easily implemented in this way. To overcome these limitations the device shown in embeds conductive elastomer sensors along with microfluidic channels to allow detection of liquids flow organic solvents as well as localized heating.

In the device shown in which may be capable of one or several functions an embedded sensor array shown in dotted shading in formed of conductive PDMS is disposed along a microfluidic channel shown as a horizontal line formed from nonconductive PDMS. The conductive portion serves as both a heater and a sensor.

The exemplary operating principle generally is that of a heated flow meter as schematically represented in . The flow meter includes a plurality of sensors formed of conductive PDMS with connectors generally surrounding a fluidic channel formed from nonconductive PDMS within a substrate . When the sensor is heated above ambient and the resistance monitored a change in output signifies a change in heat lost to the environment. With an excitation voltage of 6V and only 1 W input power a large e.g. 10 change in output voltage is measured when a fluid such as water is introduced into the channel . This change is due to heat loss to the fluid . Measurements are made using an Agilent 34401A multimeter. This exemplary sensor can be used to detect fluid fronts or analyte plugs as commonly used in micro total analysis systems.

By using multiple layers devices that are more complex may also be provided. For example by combining two layers of elastomer with embedded electrodes such as in the tactile sensor sheet shown in and orienting them orthogonal to each other a collapsible capacitive polymer device having a matrix of capacitive pressure sensors can be created an example of which is shown in . The capacitance of a flat plate capacitor is proportional to electrode area and inversely proportional to electrode gap. Thus large area and small gaps are desired but using soft materials like PDMS presents a significant challenge for maintaining a small electrode gap. Previous efforts to make collapsible capacitive PDMS devices required larger gaps numerous bonding steps and subsequently a large area.

The exemplary collapsible capacitive polymer device uses a PDMS filled capacitive gap of 4 m which gives it high stiffness compared to air gap capacitive devices. However the filled gap gives increased robustness to stiction particles and mechanical overload as well as increasing the baseline capacitance of the sensors. Air gap capacitors are possible using similar techniques to those used to create the microfluidic channels shown in .

Testing reveals that interrogating the row and column capacitance of the array of sensors allows imaging of contact with other objects. For example when loaded by a 3 mm spherical indenter under a 500 g load and the capacitance measured with an Agilent 4263B LCR meter the array changes capacitance as shown in . Additionally the negative valued artifacts observed in can be eliminated by for example using electronics designed to interrogate multiplexed capacitive arrays. These circuits switch non interrogated rows and columns to ground to minimize parasitic parallel capacitance.

Thus exemplary fabrication techniques according to embodiments of the present invention allow realization of all elastomer MEMS devices soft MEMS . In some example embodiments this is accomplished by combining micropatterning of modified e.g. conductive elastomer features with traditional spin casting and molding of nonmodified e.g. insulating elastomers. Conductive elastomers are made functional by methods including but not limited to mixing with multi walled carbon nanotubes. In this way example embodiments of the present invention can provide various new devices including but not limited to all elastomer strain gauges microfluidic systems with embedded elastomer sensors and heaters and robust stretchable capacitive elastomer tactile sensors. Other applications of exemplary fabrication techniques include soft biomedical applications such as interocular pressure measurements large strain measurements for smart prosthetics and robotics and compliant pathogen detection systems for wearable deployment.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

