---

title: Mobile client device driven data backup
abstract: Tasks associated with backing up the data of a mobile client device are performed predominantly by the mobile client device. A backup server functions as a server with limited functionality that merely stores backup data received from the mobile client device and retrieves the backup data under the request of the mobile client device. The mobile client device functions as a master device, and the backup server functions as a slave device. A backup program for performing tasks associated with the backup operation on the mobile client device may itself be stored as part of the backup data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09128882&OS=09128882&RS=09128882
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09128882
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070808
---
The present disclosure relates generally to backing up the data of mobile client device to a backup server specifically to backing up the data of the mobile client device in a manner that requires performance of minimal tasks on the part of the backup server.

Data stored in a mobile client device is backed up in a backup device either to restore the mobile client device to an operational state after a disaster or to restore some files or data that were accidentally deleted or became corrupt. During a backup operation the backup data of the mobile client device is sent to a backup device e.g. a backup server for its safe storage. The backup data can later be retrieved during a restore operation to restore the mobile client device to the previous state where the backup data was created or to replace the corrupted data or supplant the deleted data.

The backup operation is particularly important in the mobile client devices because mobile client devices are more vulnerable to loss of data compared to stationary client devices. For example mobile client devices can experience depletion of power source which may wipe out the data stored in volatile memory of the mobile client device. Also the mobile client device may be inadvertently mishandled or become lost resulting in corruption or loss of the data stored in the mobile client device. If the data is lost or corrupted the user needs to restore the backup data to the mobile client device in order to resume his use of the mobile client device from the state before the data corruption or loss. Alternatively the data may be restored to a replacement mobile client device that replaces a previous mobile client device for reasons such as losing the previous mobile client device damages to the previous mobile device or an upgrade from the previous mobile client device.

The backup operation is generally performed by storing the backup data in a backup server physically separate from a client device. The backup data may then be retrieved from the backup server during the restore operation to restore the data of the client device. Conventionally the backup server performs various tasks associated with backing up and restoring the data of the mobile client device including among other tasks identifying the data to be backed up comparing the backup data received from the client device encrypting the backup data performing deduplication to remove any redundancy in the backup data authenticating the client device decrypting the backup data and sending the backup data to the client device.

Requiring the backup server to perform various tasks associated with the backup and restore operation is disadvantageous for at least the following reasons. The backup server must be capable of storing and running backup programs related to the backup and restore operation. If various types of backup servers are used the backup program must be deployed on each backup server. This may result in waste of the backup server resource especially if the backup server interacts with multiple types of mobile client devices requiring different backup programs.

Further the backup data stored in the backup server is vulnerable to unauthorized access by a third party because the backup program for encrypting or decrypting the backup data is running on the backup server. The third party making unauthorized access to the backup data may take advantage of the backup program stored in the backup server to decrypt the backup data. Therefore storing the backup program and the backup data on the same backup server is vulnerable to unauthorized access.

Another type of backup devices often used is flash memory cards such as Secure Digital SD card or memory stick. These flash memory cards are generally inserted into the slots integrated with the mobile client device and stores various data including the backup data. The disadvantage of using the flash memory cards is that the mobile client device must dedicate already scarce real estate of the mobile client device to the slots. Also the types of flash memory cards that can be used are limited to the type of card slots implemented on the mobile client device. Another disadvantage of using the flash memory cards is that their cost per unit memory size is much expensive than the backup servers. Moreover the flash memory cards must be manually inserted into the mobile client device before performing the backup operation which is inconvenient to the user. The reliability of using the flash memory cards is also questionable because the flash memory cards can be easily lost stolen or damaged after being removed from the mobile client device.

Therefore among other deficiencies the present art lacks backup architecture and methods that allow more generic network storage devices to be used as backup server. The present art also lacks backup architecture and methods that enhance the security of the backup data stored in the backup server.

Embodiments disclosed employ a master slave model to shift most of the tasks associated with backup operation from a backup server to a mobile client device. Tasks for backing up the data stored in the mobile client device are performed predominantly by the mobile client device. The backup server is relegated to performing minimal tasks associated with transporting and storing the data of the mobile client device. Because most of the tasks associated with the backup and restore operations are performed by the mobile client device less restrictions or requirements are imposed on the backup server.

In one embodiment the backup server does not perform tasks associated with data backup and data restore other than storing the backup data during a backup operation and retrieving and sending the backup data to the mobile client device during a restore operation. All of the other tasks associated with the data backup and data restore are performed by the mobile client device.

In one embodiment the backup operation is performed by a backup program running on the mobile client device. The mobile client device runs the backup program to perform the backup operation and the restore operation of the data in the mobile client device. The backup program may be stored in the backup server as part of the backup data. When initializing the mobile client device the mobile client device may retrieve the backup program from the backup server and deploy the backup program on the mobile client device. Then the backup program retrieves the backup data stored in the backup server and performs the restore operation.

Performing tasks associated with the data backup predominantly by the mobile client device allows simpler types of backup servers to be used for backing up the data of the mobile client device. Simpler backup servers may more easily support a broader range of mobile devices without updates to a backup server program and can support extension of the backup data set to include more data types and different data structures with no changes or minimal changes to backup server operation. In one embodiment the backup servers are commodity storage devices that reduce the cost of backup or restore operations. Also the backup data stored in the backup server is more secure because the backup server does not need to store any keys or programs to decrypt the backup data.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

Tasks associated with the backup operation are performed predominantly by the mobile client device in the following embodiments. The backup server has specialized or limited functions e.g. an appliance or simple storage server and merely performs the tasks of storing backup data received from the mobile client device during the backup operation and retrieving the backup data under the request of the mobile client device during a restore operation. In other words the mobile client device functions as a master device and the backup server functions as a slave device. The backup server slave device device performs tasks associated with the backup operation in accordance with instructions from the mobile client device master device .

The backup server refers to a computing device that is located remotely from the mobile computing device and has processing capacity and storage space to store the backup data. The backup server may be a computing device dedicated to backing up the data of the mobile client server. Alternatively the backup server may be a general purpose computing device that stores the backup data in addition to performing other tasks unrelated to the data backup.

The mobile client device refers to any portable computing device having the data for backup. The mobile client device can be computing devices including among others devices a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a game console an MP3 player and a mobile phone. The mobile client device may also be referenced as a mobile computing device or handheld computing device. The mobile client device includes at least a component for communicating with the backup server and a component for performing the backup operation.

The tasks associated with the data backup include tasks associated with restoring the backup data to the mobile client device. The tasks associated with the data backup include among other tasks identifying the data of the mobile client device to be backed up deduplicating the data to be backup up time stamping the data to be backed up compressing the data identified for backup encrypting the compressed data establishing connection between the mobile client device and the backup server sending the backup data to the backup server storing the backup data in the backup server retrieving the backup data from the backup server tracking changes in the data for backup to perform incremental data backup and restoring the backup data onto the mobile client device.

In one embodiment the backup data backed up by the mobile client device is restored onto the other e.g. alternate or second mobile client device . The mobile client device receives backup data from the backup server . By receiving and restoring the backup data of the mobile client device the user may continue the use the data of the mobile client device on the mobile client device . The backup data may be the same as the backup data from the mobile client device or it may a portion of the backup data that is compatible with the mobile client device .

The mobile client device e.g. the second or alternate mobile client device may be a device of the same type as the mobile client device . Alternatively the mobile client device may be a device that is of a type different from the mobile client device . For example if the mobile client device is a smartphone operating on Palm Inc. s Palm Operating System the mobile client device may be the same or different type of smartphone operating on Microsoft s Windows Mobile Operating System.

In one embodiment the mobile client device may communicate with the backup server via a wire a short range radio protocol or a long range radio protocol as explained below in detail with reference to .

In one embodiment the backup server includes a storage module for storing the backup data received from the mobile client device . The backup server may include among other devices a desktop computer a laptop computer and a database server. In one embodiment the backup server may be a device paired with the mobile client device that extends the capabilities of the mobile client device . The paired device may be operable only in conjunction with the mobile client device .

In one embodiment the task performed by the backup server in connection with the data backup is limited to storing of the backup data. All of the other tasks associated with the data backup are performed by the mobile client device . For example identifying data to be backed up time stamping the data to be backed up compressing of the data deduplicating of the data to be backed up encrypting the compressed data decrypting the backup data resolving any conflicts with the backup data retrieving of the backup data decrypting of the backup data decompressing of the backup data tracking changes in the data for backup to perform incremental data backup and restoring of the backup data in the mobile client device are all performed by the mobile client device .

Performing tasks associated with the data backup predominantly by the mobile client device is advantageous because more types of backup servers can be used for backing up the data of the mobile client device . For example a limited function server e.g. a simple storage server or a server having specialized processing capacity may be used as the backup server because only minimal tasks or processes storing and retrieving the backup data are performed during the backup operation and the restore operation. Such server may be configured as a specialized appliance configured for this backup storage and restoration configurations.

Another advantage of having the backup server to perform most of the tasks associated with the data backup is that because the encryption and decryption are performed by the mobile client device the backup server does not need to store any keys or programs to encrypt or decrypt the backup data. Even if an unauthorized access to the backup data in the backup server is made there is no key or information available from the backup server that would allow decryption of the backup data. Therefore encrypting and decrypting the backup data by the mobile client server is more secure than encrypting and decrypting the backup data by the backup server . The backup server may also have a simple architecture reducing the cost of the backup server needed to perform the backup operation.

The software or firmware may be embodied as instructions for the processors . The processor executes instructions associated with the operation of the mobile client device . The memory module or other tangible computer readable medium stores program codes e.g. instructions to be executed by the processor including but not limited to data items associated with application programs operable on the mobile client device . The memory module may be a non volatile type persistent memory such as a hard disk a compact flash or an EEPROM. The memory module may also be a volatile type such as a random access memory a buffer a cache a register a combination of non volatile and volatile memory or other device capable of storing instructions and data.

The communication module performs peer to peer communication or network based communication with the backup server . In one embodiment the communication module communicates with the backup server via a wire using for example Universal Serial Bus USB or RS232C or a short range radio protocols using for example Bluetooth or Wireless Fidelity WiFi protocol . In another embodiment the communication module communicates with the backup server via a long range radio protocol such as Global System of Mobile GSM communication a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA communication a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS communication General Packet Radio Service GPRS third generation 3G mobile communication High Speed Download Packet Access HSDPA and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX .

The output module includes an output controller not shown that is coupled to output devices such as a display device or a speaker. The input includes an input controller not shown that is coupled to an input device such as a keypad or a touch screen to receive inputs from a user. The input module and the output module may be implemented as hardware software or a combination thereof. The input module and the output module may also be capable of servicing other input output modules or peripheral devices associated with the mobile client device .

The backup module performs tasks associated with the backup of the data in the mobile client device . During the backup operation the backup module identifies the data to be backed up from the memory attaches time stamps to the data to be backed up deduplicates the data to be backed up compresses the data to be backed up into one or more files and encrypts the data using encryption algorithms. Then the backup module sends the backup data to the backup server via the communication module . During the restore operation the backup module retrieves the backup data from the backup server decrypts the backup data decompresses the backup data and then restores decompressed data to the memory .

In one embodiment the backup module is implemented as a combination of hardware component and software component. The software component of the backup module is hereinafter referred to as a backup program . The backup program includes instructions associated with the backup and restore operation. The backup module either alone or in conjunction with the processor performs tasks as defined by the backup program .

In one embodiment a copy of the backup program itself maybe backed up by the backup module . When the mobile client device is initialized or the backup data is restored on a new mobile client device referring to for example the mobile client device the initialized mobile client device or the new mobile client device may retrieve the backup program from the backup server and deploy the backup program on the mobile computing device . The deployed backup program then performs the restore operation as explained below in detail with reference to .

In one embodiment the backup server stores the backup program for various types of devices. When initialized the mobile client device automatically retrieves a compatible backup program when connected to the backup server . The mobile client device then deploys the backup program. After the backup program is deployed the backup module now operational with the installed backup program retrieves the backup data from the backup server and restores the data in the mobile client device . In one embodiment the backup program only retrieves the backup data that is compatible with the mobile client device on which the backup program is running. In another embodiment the backup program retrieves all of the backup data from the backup server and then selectively restores the data that is compatible with the mobile client device . By automatically retrieving or restoring the compatible data the user s intervention during the restore operation is minimized. It is noted that the processor the memory module the communication module the output module the input module and the backup module communicate with each other through a conventional bus . More than one component of the mobile client device may be combined into a single unit. For example the software component of the backup module may be combined with the memory module and the hardware component of the backup module may be combined with the processor .

In one embodiment the backup module backs up selected data in the memory . Specifically the backup module generates the backup data for all or selected data of the following data application programs that are preinstalled on the mobile client device the configuration data for the operating system the configuration data of application programs background or color schemes for the screen of the mobile client device and notification configurations e.g. ringtones or vibration . The backup module may also generate the backup data for different data during each backup session.

The data to be backed up is compressed into one or more files. In one embodiment a deduplication process may be performed before compressing of the files to remove any redundant data from the backup data. The compressed data is encrypted using an encryption algorithm. The encrypted backup data is sent to the backup server and is stored in the storage of the backup server .

Note that the tasks associated with the data backup of the mobile client device are performed predominantly by the mobile client device . The only task performed by the backup server associated with the backup operation is the storing of the backup data. Performing tasks associated with the data backup predominantly by the mobile client device allows more types of backup servers to be used for backing up the data of the mobile client device .

The backup module retrieves the backup data from the backup device . The backup module then decrypts the backup data and decompresses the backup data. The backup module restores the decompressed data in the memory of the mobile client device . In one embodiment the backup module selects and restores parts of the backup data that are compatible with the mobile client device .

Note that the tasks associated with the restoring of the data of the mobile client device are also performed predominantly by the mobile client device . The only operation performed by the backup server associated with the restore operation is the retrieving and sending of the backup data to the mobile client device . As described above performing tasks associated with the data backup predominantly by the mobile client device is advantageous because this allows more types of backup servers to be used for backing up the data of the mobile client device .

The software may be written or coded using a programming language. Examples of programming languages may include C C BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC JAVA ActiveX assembly language machine code and so forth. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code object code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The software may be stored using any type of computer readable media or machine readable media. Furthermore the software may be stored on the media as source code or object code. The software may also be stored on the media as compressed and or encrypted data. Examples of software may include any software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application programming interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using any tangible computer readable media machine readable media or article capable of storing software. The media or article may include any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit such as any of the examples described with reference to a memory. The media or article may comprise memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD subscriber identify module tape cassette or the like.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B is true or present .

Also use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of embodiments of the present invention. This was done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the embodiments of the present invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Performing tasks associated with the data backup predominantly by the mobile client device allows more types of backup servers to be used for backing up the data of the mobile client device. Another advantage of having the mobile client device to perform the data backup operations predominantly is that the backup data stored in the backup server is more secure because the backup server does not need to store any keys or programs to decrypt the backup data.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for a software configured multimedia control mechanism through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus of the present invention disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

