---

title: Method and system to detect a network deficiency
abstract: A system to detect a network deficiency, in one example embodiment, comprises a receiving module to receive utilization metrics of at least one network resource, wherein the utilization metrics are collected and made available at a network level, an aggregator to aggregate the utilization metrics of at least one network resource with the utilization metrics of a plurality of the network resources, a processing module to determine a level of aggregated utilization metrics of the network resources, and a detecting module to detect a precursor indicative of a network traffic deterioration based on the level of the aggregated utilization metrics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08135824&OS=08135824&RS=08135824
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08135824
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071001
---
Some of the issues of distributed network system performance include the handling of spikes in the network traffic. Dealing with such conditions may be desirable in distributed network systems.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer hardware or a combination of software and hardware.

Some of the issues of distributed network systems may include spikes in the network traffic that are predictably caused by a planned event. A predictable situation may involve the network traffic spikes that occur on a free service day . Other network traffic issues may be less predictable and caused by a failure of one of the network components. A network deficiency may originate anywhere within the distributed network. Observing traffic and network characteristics at the network level may be a lagging indicator of a network deficiency. Once a network traffic issue is discovered by observing the traffic and network characteristics stabilizing the system may involve cutting client access until the issue is resolved. Described herein is a method and system for determining the degradation of network capacity predicting future situations and dealing with them.

The illustrated web server load balancer and the application server load balancer e.g. F5 NetScaler or Cisco are not limited to any specific type. The web server load balancer and the application server load balancer may be utilized to spread work between many servers in order to horizontally scale the application and provide redundancy for failover. The web server load balancer and the application server load balancer may be utilized to increase capacity of a plurality of servers. The web server load balancer and the application server load balancer may include a virtual server which in turn includes an IP Internet Protocol address and port. The virtual server may be bound to a number of physical services running on physical servers in a server farm. A physical server may contain the physical server s IP address and port. As an example a service request may be sent to the virtual server using the virtual server IP address which in turn selects a physical server in a server farm and directs this request to the selected physical server.

When a service request is placed at the application tier the service request may go through initial firewalls and routers before getting into the sample network environment . The service request may pass through the web server load balancer and the application server load balancer where the request may be directed according to a category of the request. The sample network environment may be distributed throughout multiple geographically remote facilities. It will be appreciated that the gateway the web server load balancer and the application server load balancer may not be included in the sample embodiments of the systems described herein because the sample network environment is merely a sample implementation and the systems described herein are not technology specific.

In an example embodiment the gateway may be a network point that acts as an entrance to the sample network environment . In the sample network environment a computer server acting as a gateway may also be acting as a proxy server and a firewall server. The gateway may be associated with both a router which knows where to direct a given packet of data that arrives at the gateway and a switch which may furnish the actual path in and out of the gateway for a given packet.

In an example embodiment the web server load balancer may be used to increase the capacity of a server farm beyond that of a single server. It may also allow the service to continue even in the face of server down time due to server failure or server maintenance. As mentioned above the application server load balancer may include a virtual server which in turn may include an IP address and port. This virtual server may be bound to a number of physical services running on the physical servers in a server farm. These physical services may contain the physical server s IP address and port. When a request is sent to the virtual server the virtual server in turn selects a physical server in the server farm and directs this request to the selected physical server. Accordingly a role played by the application server load balancer is managing connections between clients and servers. Different virtual servers may be configured for different sets of physical services such as Transmission Control Protocol TCP and User Datagram Protocol UDP services in general. Protocol or application specific virtual servers that may be supported include Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP File Transfer Protocol FTP SSL SSL BRIDGE SSL TCP NNTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP and Domain Name System DNS . The load balancing methods may manage the selection of an appropriate physical server in a server farm. The application server load balancer may also perform server monitoring of services in a web server farm. In case of failure of a service the application server load balancer may continue to perform load balancing across the remaining services. In case of failure of the servers bound to a virtual server requests may be sent to a backup virtual server if configured or optionally redirected to a configured Uniform Resource Locator URL .

In some example embodiments the data center may be a facility utilized for housing electronic equipment typically computers and communications equipment. The computers and the communication equipment may be used for the purpose of handling the data of the data center . One of the purposes of the data center may be to run the applications that may handle business and operational data. The data center may be proprietary and developed internally or bought from enterprise software vendors. Components of the data center may include databases file servers application servers and middleware. The data center may also be used for offsite backups. A list of enabled filters as determined by the request filtering processor may be maintained in a database of the data center and applied against specific URLs and available URLs.

In some example embodiments the active connections pool may be a number of threads that are created to perform a number of tasks usually organized in a queue. As soon as a thread completes its task it may request the next task from the queue and so forth. The thread may then terminate or sleep until there are new tasks available. The number of threads used is a parameter that can be altered to provide the best performance. The cost of having a larger thread pool may be an increased resource usage. Too many threads in the active connections pool may waste resources utilized in creating the unused threads destroying too many created threads and spending more time later creating the threads again. On the contrary creating threads too slowly may result in poor performance and may starve other processes of resources. With reference to the active connections pool there may be a finite number of threads available per the active connections pool . A thread pool may be used instead of creating a new thread for each task to improve performance and system stability.

In some example embodiments the policy engine may comprise the deficiency detection processor the request filtering processor and the feature degradation processor . Each of the processors may be responsible for its corresponding area of a network deficiency detection policy determination and its enforcement. It will be appreciated that the roles of the processors described herein are closely related and may be supplemental or redundant.

In some example embodiments the deficiency detection module may gather information and report to the deficiency detection processor . The deficiency detection module may not utilize agents placed throughout various components of the sample network environment . In some embodiments the deficiency detection module may be completely agentless. The deficiency detection module may include a network component to collect resource metrics that are made available to be queried by the deficiency detection processor . In some example embodiments the policy execution module may implement the overall policy as determined by the policy engine and is located throughout the network components and tiers including gateway application server load balancer data center and the active connections pool . The policy execution module may enforce the feature degradation and the request filtering policies to various degrees as determined by the feature degradation processor and the deficiency detection processor . In some example embodiments the feature degradation module may implement the feature degradation policy and is located throughout the network components and tiers including gateway application server load balancer data center and the active connections pool . The feature degradation module may enforce the feature degradation policy to various degrees as determined by the feature degradation processor .

In some example embodiments the request filtering module may implement the request filtering policy and is located throughout the network resources and tiers including gateway application server load balancer data center and the active connections pool . The request filtering module may enforce the request filtering policy to various degrees as determined by the request filtering processor .

In some example embodiments the deficiency detection processor may detect a network deficiency by gathering the utilization metrics collected by the deficiency detection module at the network resource level. Upon collection of the utilization metrics the deficiency detection processor analyzes the utilization metrics and makes a determination as to whether or not there is an indication of a precursor to a network deficiency. The determination is based upon the utilization metrics of the network resources. As an example increasingly high memory utilization may indicate an imminent deterioration in the network traffic.

In some example embodiments the request filtering processor may determine the request filtering policy from the utilization metrics received and analyzed by the deficiency detection processor . The policy enforcement implemented by the request filtering processor may be implemented in conjunction with the feature degradation policy implemented by the feature degradation processor . As the enforcement policy is being implemented feedback from the deficiency detection module is processed and analyzed by the deficiency detection processor and passed on to the request filtering processor to be considered in its further policy enforcement.

In some example embodiments the feature degradation processor may determine the feature degradation policy from the utilization metrics received and analyzed by the deficiency detection processor . The policy enforcement implemented by the feature degradation processor may be implemented in conjunction with the request filtering processor . As the enforcement policy is being implemented feedback from the deficiency detection module is processed and analyzed by the deficiency detection processor and passed on to the feature degradation processor to be considered in its further policy enforcement. A system to detect a network deficiency is described by a way of example with reference to .

Referring to of the drawings the deficiency detection processor is shown to include several components that may be configured to perform various operations. The deficiency detection processor may comprise a receiving module an aggregator a processing module a detecting module a display an automation module an alarming module and a reporting module .

The receiving module in an example embodiment may be configured to receive information gathered by the deficiency detection module about component utilization at the service level and made available at the network component level. The information received may comprise utilization metrics of performance of various network resources such CPU utilization thread utilization and memory consumption.

The aggregator in an example embodiment may be configured to aggregate the utilization metrics received from a network resource by the receiving module with the utilization metrics received from the network resources homogeneous to the network resource. The aggregation may be performed to allow an analysis to be performed with respect to the aggregated utilization metrics to determine the overall policy.

The processing module in an example embodiment may be configured to determine whether or not there is a precursor indicative of a deterioration of the network traffic based on the analysis of the aggregated utilization metrics received by the receiving module and aggregated by the aggregating module . If the processing module determines that the aggregated utilization metrics of the network resources exceed a predetermined threshold the detecting module may be alerted. The detecting module in an example embodiment may be configured to detect the precursor indicative of deterioration in the network traffic based on the utilization metrics received by the receiving module and the alert issued by the processing module .

The display in some example embodiments may be configured to display the utilization metrics received and aggregated on a Graphical User Interface GUI and to allow the operator to implement enforcement policies to alleviate network deficiency based on the determination made by the processing module . The display may be used both for monitoring of the situation and for the control of parameters set for the policy enforcement. Various uses of the GUI are discussed in more detail below.

The automation module in some example embodiments may be configured to automate the process of gathering the utilization metrics and policy enforcement. Using the automation module the system to detect a network deficiency may determine whether or not a precursor for a network deficiency is detected and what actions may be taken to implement various policies in response to the detection. In some embodiments transaction logging may facilitate data collection for the automation and fine tuning and support the enforcement of the request filtering and feature degradation policies if sudden spikes in traffic cause the application server tier performance to deteriorate. In some embodiments the automation module may be utilized to control a planned event that causes a spike in the network traffic of an e commerce website e.g. a free listings day or the holiday season The automation module may be provided to detect a precursor event to a lost capacity situation to reduce resource consumption and to avoid meltdown through selection and reduction of incoming traffic by partial or total shutdown wherein the partial shutdown is implemented through the feature degradation and the complete shutdown is implemented through the request filtering.

The reporting module in an example embodiment may be configured to report a determination made by processing module as to whether a predetermined threshold of network resource utilization was made and a precursor to a network deterioration was detected by the detecting module . A report may be made to the policy engine the request filtering processor or the feature degradation processor . Various operations performed by the system to detect a network deficiency are described by way of example with reference to an example method of .

As shown in the method commences with a deficiency detection module collecting the utilization metrics at operation . The method to detect network deficiency may be used to monitor utilization of network resources. By monitoring utilization of the network resources the method to detect network deficiency may predict what is going to happen to the network traffic even before there is a detectible deterioration in the network traffic with no user input required. Additionally an aggregate of the utilization metrics from many different points in the network may be utilized to analyze a network deficiency in the macro context. Thus the method to detect a network deficiency may utilize an ability of the network resources to collect the utilization metrics and make the information available to a service collecting the information and sending it to be analyzed by the system to detect a network deficiency .

A correlated matrix of the point where the utilization metrics are collected at the servers allows the detection on multiple levels of a network deficiency. Accordingly enforcement of the policies may also be performed on multiple levels. The utilization metrics may be collected at load balancers such as web server load balancer and application server load balancer application servers and data centers such as data center . Auto learning may be utilized and the entire utilization metrics gathering and policy enforcement automated. The utilization metrics are gathered for the purpose of their analysis and to determine whether or not a referral to the request filtering processor and the feature degradation processor is warranted.

The policy enforcement may depend on a particular scenario. In some scenarios the request filtering may be utilized a set of users the same set of users are blocked consistently may be blocked in other scenarios the feature degradation module may turn off some features. In yet other scenarios both request filtering and feature degradation may be combined. The methods and systems may utilize network deficiency detection and policy execution across various nodes from a web server to a load balancer to a proxy server to an application server. Depending on the level of the network deficiency multiple tiers of enforcement may be utilized in intelligent modules making policy determinations based on the anticipated traffic.

The method to detect a network deficiency may leverage the utilization metrics collected from the network resources in multiple areas. The utilization metrics may be informative of a number of connections utilized and a number of maximum connections. The utilization metrics may be used to determine when the active connections will reach their maximum value which is indicative of a network deficiency. In some embodiments the maximum number of the connections by itself may not manifest a network deficiency therefore the load balancers may be looked at to ascertain whether there are more requests than there are connections to process the requests. If the connections start increasing on the load balancer this may indicate that the outer servers are overloaded with the requests and the load balancer may not keep up. When this situation occurs some users may not be able to connect to the server.

At operation the utilization metrics are made available and gathered by the network deficiency detection module . In the example method the server may send a request to a network resource to make the utilization metrics available. The utilization metrics made available at the network resource level may include CPU utilization thread utilization and memory exhaustion. The thread utilization made available by the network resource may include computing the percentage of the threads utilized. The system to detect a network deficiency may monitor the network resources that may have direct impact on the network traffic in the future. The system to detect a network deficiency may also collect the utilization metrics information at the network resources themselves including CPU and memory utilization. By collecting the utilization metrics the system to detect a network deficiency may get an understanding of how the back end servers are performing and apply predetermined formulas to decide whether a network resource is near its maximum capacity. Accordingly a response may be generated to an anticipated network deficiency. Thus system to detect a network deficiency may monitor the application transactions at the network resource level and may not monitor the network traffic for the purposes of detecting a network deficiency.

At operation the deficiency detection processor may request the utilization metrics by querying the deficiency detection module . The information collected at the network resources may comprise CPU utilization and it may be determined for example that the CPU utilization is reaching 80 or 90 . Even though the latency in the network traffic has not built yet the situation may be a precursor to imminent network traffic deterioration. The network resources analyzed to determine whether or not there is an indication of precursor to a network deficiency may comprise CPU utilization average memory usage and thread usage.

At operation the deficiency detection processor may receive the utilization metrics via the receiving module . In some embodiments the utilization metrics received may allow intelligent decisions based on the speed of the URLs and the speed at which a data center can process information. A cost determination may be based on the analysis of data associated with data centers. Thus the detection may occur on many tiers such as load balancer application server and data centers. The cost determination may be based on the collected utilization metrics. A UI User Interface may be utilized to support an enablement and a disablement of any action with respect to the utilization metrics received at operation . When either or both request filtering and feature degradation policies are enforced further UI monitoring of the resource consumption may be utilized. The UI in some embodiments may be able to display effectively the state of the resource consumption after the enforcement of either or both policies.

In some embodiments an operator of the policy engine may enable blocking of the BOT web robot a software application that runs automated tasks over the Internet using the UI policy enablement control. The UI can be used to block BOTs at any level Web Load Balancer Application Server Load Balancer Active Connections Pool on the Application Server and Data Center The BOT may be blocked by specifying its name or by specifying a name of a group of BOTS. In some example embodiments action in a single data center or across data centers may be blocked for a target pool of active connections. The set of actions available for enablement using the UI may be dynamic and pool specific. The set of actions of actions may also be Data Center specific. For example actions specified in one pool may not be available in another pool. The UI may provide instant feedback to the operators by constantly monitoring the resource consumption.

At operation the network resources in already degraded mode may be filtered out due to the current implementation of the feature degradation. At operation the utilization metrics received at operation may be aggregated across homogeneous network resources using aggregator . The received utilization metrics of a network resource may be aggregated with a homogeneous group of the network resources that perform similar tasks. The aggregation may be performed across entire pools of network resources to make a determination of whether or not there is an indication of a network deficiency against a pool of the network resources homogenous the network resource in question. Detecting a network deficiency at the network resource level allows anticipating the network deficiency because excessive resource consumption may often be a precursor to a network deficiency.

At operation the utilization metrics aggregated at may be used by the processing module to determine the aggregate utilization metrics. It will be noted that the system to determine a network deficiency may be agnostic of the mode of collection of the utilization metrics. In some embodiments the utilization metrics may be monitored and intelligently aggregated. Additionally intelligent trending and baselining may be utilized to identify when predetermined thresholds are trespassed wherein the predetermined threshold set may be set manually or determined by the system. Thus an inadequate capacity to serve client requests in aggregation within proper SLAs Server Level Agreements may be detected. Tools for the network deficiency analysis and detection may be provided by enabling an alarm facilitated by the alarming module when the utilization metrics reach a particular level of degradation and the threshold is surpassed.

For example a promotional event such as a free service day may result in overloading of the site. Such an event may be expected and measures may be taken beforehand. If however an event is unexpected more drastic measures may be employed until the site operators are able to resolve the traffic issues and stabilize the pool of active connections. Some other situations may warrant a long term action to reduce traffic to the pool of active connections until a capacity analysis is completed and a resolution is reached to stabilize the pool. The feature degradation and the request filtering policies may be enforced in a specific data center or across data centers. Different operating locations of a distributed site may be allowed to query the state of the system independently and execute the feature degradation and request filtering policies on their respective locations.

At operation the display may display the utilization metrics. In order to take action site operators may constantly request updated utilization metrics. The UI may be provided to monitor the utilization metrics and a customization of a number of parameters allowed. Users may be allowed to define a custom view in the UI and data that appear in the custom view. The UI may come pre configured with several pre existing views. It may show and allow the users to view inconsistencies on a pool of active connections. For example five out of four hundred machines may have the policy enforcement enabled. The UI may show the state of the policy event table and the pools of active connections that have policy enforcement enabled. Additionally the UI may show an audit log for the pools of active connections over a time period live metrics how long the pools of active connections have been in degraded mode and how many requests were blocked by request filters. Additionally the UI may show the pools of active connections flagged by the method to detect a network deficiency and the pools of active connections in a degraded mode but no longer alarming.

At operation the detecting module may detect a network deficiency and at decision block the processing module may determine whether or not the network deficiency is detected. If it is determined at decision block by the detecting module that the network deficiency is not detected no alert is issued to the policy enforcement processors. If on the contrary it is determined at decision block by the detecting module that the network deficiency is detected the method may proceed to alarm the network operators at by the alarming module and to report the detection of a network deficiency to the policy execution processors using the reporting module . In some example embodiments if the network deficiency is detected at operation a report of a live monitoring of the resource consumption may be made available to the policy engine operators at operation . A system for intelligent request filtering in response to a network deficiency is described by way of example with reference to .

Referring to of the drawings the request filtering processor for intelligent request filtering in response to a network deficiency is shown to include several components that may be configured to perform various operations. The request filtering processor for intelligent request filtering in response to a network deficiency may comprise a monitoring module a receiving module a processing module a filtering module an aggregator a display an automating module and a reporting module . The monitoring module in an example embodiment may be configured to monitor the deficiency detection processor for an indication that a network deficiency is detected the indication based on the utilization of network resources. If the network deficiency is detected by the deficiency detection processor an alarm may be issued by the alarming module to the request filtering processor and the feature degradation processor .

The receiving module in an example embodiment may be configured to receive the alert issued by the deficiency detection processor . The processing module in an example embodiment may be configured to receive a service request for a network resource from a requesting entity and to aggregate the revenue generated by the requesting entity with revenue generated by the entities homogeneous to the requesting entity. Additionally the processing module may determine network resource utilization for the service request and determine the revenue to network resource utilization ratio based on the revenue generated by the requesting entity and the network utilization. The processing module may also implement the request filtering policy by filtering the response to the service request when the revenue to network resource utilization ratio is below a second predetermined threshold unless the utilization of the network resources drops below the predetermine threshold.

The filtering module in an example embodiment may be configured to filter responses to the request for services based on the processing module to implement the request filtering policy. The aggregator in an example embodiment may be configured to aggregate the requests from homogeneous entities in order to determine the combined effect on resource consumption the combined revenue and the cost function of the ratio of the combined revenue to resource consumption.

The display in an example embodiment may be configured to display the information received and aggregated on a GUI and to allow the operator to implement enforcement policies to alleviate a network deficiency based on the determination that the network deficiency is imminent. The display may be used both for monitoring of the situation and for the control of parameters set for the policy enforcement. Various uses of the GUI are discussed in more detail below. The automating module in an example embodiment may be configured to automate the process of information gathering and policy enforcement. The automating module may determine whether or not a precursor for to network deficiency is detected and what actions may be taken to implement various policies in response to the detection. The reporting module in an example embodiment may be configured to report the effect of the enforcement of the request filtering policy back to the policy processors. A report may be made to the policy engine the deficiency detection processor or the feature degradation processor . Various operations performed by the system for intelligent request filtering in response to a network deficiency are described by way of example with reference to an example method of .

As shown in the method commences with the monitoring module monitoring the utilization metrics at operation wherein the utilization metrics are reported by the deficiency detection processor . At operation the receiving module may receive a request for service. As a result of implementation of the request filtering policy a percentage of requests in a pool of active connections may be turned away based on type of request. The request filtering may be implemented by blocking requests for service. The request filtering can be placed on any tier in the system. The request filtering may be placed before a request enters a web server load balancer . The request filtering may be implemented on the application server load balancer data center and at several different tiers. When filtering the request the processing module may be able to distinguish between using entities such as a user and a BOT .

As an example the processing module may be able to distinguish a regular request from the BOT web robot request. The BOT is a software application that runs automated tasks over the Internet. Typically the BOT performs tasks that are structurally repetitive at a much higher rate than would be possible for a human editor alone. The largest use of BOTs is in web spidering in which an automated script fetches analyses and files information from web servers at many times the speed of a human. A server may have a file e.g. robots.txt containing rules for crawling of that server that the BOT is supposed to obey. Because a BOT used to index an Internet site may perform its tasks at the times the traffic to the site is reduced e.g. early morning hours the BOT may be asked to return and crawl the site at a certain time.

At operation the processing module may determine the level of resource utilization and the method may proceed to decision block . At decision block it may be determined using the processing module whether or not the level of utilization is high. If it is determined by the processing module at decision block that the level of utilization is low the request for service may be responded to with the requested resources at operation and the monitoring may continue using monitoring module . If on the contrary it is determined at decision block by the processing module that level of utilization is high the method proceeds to determine by the processing module the requesting entity revenue at operation . At operation the requesting entity may be characterized using the processing module .

In some embodiments the processing module may determine the identity of the using entity by analysing the request. One of the parameters that is included in the request is the user s IP Internet Protocol . Because IP addresses may be dynamic and a previously used IP address may be reassigned user s identity may based on a maintained list of users. For example users may be classified as belonging to gold silver and bronze levels with gold being more expensive and accordingly generating more revenue and bronze generating less revenue. In some embodiments the visitors may be classified as infrequent visitors frequent visitors and power users. Based on the user characterization provided by the processing module there may be different degrees of features made available to users. For example while infrequent users may make up 40 of the traffic they may contribute 2 to the revenue. Accordingly the less frequent users may be first to be affected by the feature degradation and request filtering policies because they generate little revenue.

In some embodiments the processing module may analyze visitors vis vis features and the feature degradation enforced by eliminating the rarely used features. For example there may be features that more frequent visitors rarely use. Those features can be degraded during the implementation of the feature degradation policy. In some embodiments user may be classified as currently signed into a site or as users that remain non signed. In some embodiments it may determined that a user is currently in the signed in session. As an example if a user is in the middle of a commercial transaction the user may be allowed to proceed without enforcing the feature degradation or the request filtering and to complete the transaction. Accordingly users starting new workflows may be blocked before users who are currently in a workflow. In some embodiments if the user is a seller higher priority will be given to the features that are seller oriented. Thus user roles may be differentiated whether they are in a workflow whether they are signed in or not signed in and how valuable each visitor is in terms of revenue generation.

The processing module may place a cookie on the user s client system when the user signs in and during the user s session. When the user signs in again the cookies placed on the user s system may be looked at for user characterization. In some embodiments the cookie may be looked at when a policy enforcement decision is made. The types of cookies placed onto the user s system may vary and in some embodiments the cookie may be used for an initial categorization. As an example if an initially characterized user starts to engage in more commercial transactions another cookie may be placed onto the user s system. In some embodiments a cookie may be used to keep track of how fresh the current session is. Thus because a new activity is conducted data collection may be done information may be gathered for the generated revenue and based on the information gathered a classification may be done and used by a policy enforcement determination.

In some embodiments a batch job may be utilized to run after hours and update the database with information pertaining to users activities. When a user logs into a site a cookie may be placed at the user s client machine based on the database data. The total user profile may be based on the user history on the site and the characterization assigned to the user by the processing module . At operation the revenue may be aggregated using the aggregator . At operation the processing module may determine resource utilization per request. At operation the processing module may determine a revenue to utilization ratio. Thus spikes in resource utilization may be handled appropriately while maximizing revenue to resource utilization ratio. At decision block it may be determined whether or not the ratio is high using the processing module . If it is determined at decision block that the ratio is low the processing module may respond to request at operation and continue monitoring using the monitoring module . If on the contrary it is determined at decision block by the processing module that the ratio is high the processing module may not respond to the request and will proceed to receive the state of the current filtering at operation using the filtering module .

At operation the processing module may determine a filtering policy and proceed to block the response to the request for service using filtering module at operation . It will be appreciated that the filtering policy may be enforced through the data centers which are inter connected to handle implementation over distributed systems. A system for feature degradation in response to a network deficiency is described by way of example with reference to .

Referring to of the drawings the feature degradation processor for feature degradation in response to a network deficiency is shown to include several components that may be configured to perform various operations. The feature degradation processor may comprise a monitoring module a processing module a degrading module an aggregator a display an automating module and a reporting module .

The monitoring module in an example embodiment may be configured to monitor the deficiency detection processor for an indication that a network deficiency is detected the indication based on the utilization of network resources. If the network deficiency is detected by the deficiency detection processor an alert may be issued to the request filtering processor and the feature degradation processor . The monitoring module in an example embodiment may be configured to receive the alert issued by the deficiency detection processor . The processing module may determine whether the utilization of the network resource is above a predetermined threshold determine the category of the using entity and determine the revenue generated by using entity. Additionally the processing module may degrade application level features available to the using entity unless the utilization of the network resources drops below the predetermined threshold.

The degrading module in an example embodiment may be configured to degrade the application level features based on the determination by processing module that the features may be degraded. The aggregator in an example embodiment may be configured to aggregate the using entity with the homogeneous using entities. The display in an example embodiment may be configured to display the information received and aggregated on a GUI and to allow the operator to implement enforcement policies to alleviate a network deficiency based on the determination that the network deficiency is imminent. The display may be used both for monitoring the situation and for the control of parameters set for the policy enforcement. Various uses of the GUI are discussed in more detail below.

The automating module in an example embodiment may be configured to automate the process of the information gathering and policy enforcement. Using the automation module it may be determined whether or not a precursor to network deficiency is detected and what actions may be taken to implement various policies in response to the detection. The reporting module in an example embodiment may be configured to report back to the policy processors an effect of the enforcement of the request filtering policy. A report may be made to the policy engine the deficiency detection processor or the request filtering processor . Various operations performed by the system for feature degradation in response to a network deficiency are described by way of example with reference to an example method of .

As shown in the method may commence with the monitoring module monitoring the utilization metrics at operation by receiving the utilization metrics updates from the deficiency detection processor . It will be appreciated that with reference to the feature degradation policy the feature degradation processor may decide what triggers the decision to go into the degraded mode and when to return back to normal mode again based on the monitoring of resource consumption at operation . Once it is determined that the feature degradation processor may go into the degraded mode the feature degradation processor may weigh the benefits and costs of different options and may also consider how the policy implementation is beneficial over the short term mid term and long term periods. The feature degradation processor may also decide where to implement the policy e.g. web gateway level application server level API Application Programming Interface gateway level . Thereafter the feature degradation processor may determine a level of degradation and response filtering to maximize the revenue.

At operation the processing module may determine the level of the resource utilization. According to the method the feature degradation policy may be enforced at the application level by degrading features available to the users and by eliminating some features of the displayed page.

The implementation of the feature degradation may be performed in conjunction with the request filtering as illustrated by the sliding scale with reference to . As an example the processing module may escalate the level of degradation watch for traffic and calculate the effect of the degradation. If the effect is not satisfactory to alleviate the network deficiency the request filtering may be implemented escalating the enforcement to affect more and more users. An automation may be implemented by having an engine located inside or outside the network receive the gathered data determine the level of the policy enforcement and start the feature degradation and the request filtering.

At decision block the processing module may determine whether or not the resource utilization is above a predetermined threshold. If it is determined at decision block that the utilization is below the predetermined threshold the method may proceed to operation without degrading the application features. The method may continue monitoring the resource utilization using the monitoring module . If on the contrary it is determined at decision block that utilization is above the predetermined threshold the method may proceed to determine the category of the using entity at operation using the processing module . At operation the processing module may determine the requesting entity revenue generation.

The feature degradation processing module when enabled may allow the request to pass through but with a limited number of features. There may be different levels of feature degradation available to the site operators e.g. 1 4 As an example 1 may be least restrictive and 4 may be the most restrictive feature degradation enforcement. Application developers may be provided with a GUI available for view on the display to register the features they want to allow or disallow when this policy is enforced. In some embodiments the connection pool owners may choose to implement different levels of feature degradation on their respective pools of active connections and reduce current features on the pool of active connections. This feature degradation may allow the requests to flow through the application server but the URL may carry a lighter weight with an increased throughput. Because of its lighter effect on the users the feature degradation may be enforced before the request filtering is enforced to allow features be degraded before turning requests away.

At operation the processing module may characterize the requesting entity. The processing module may implement a reduction of components on a web page. For example to show ten components on a page may take less computing power than generation of 100 components. Some components generated on the page may involve more computational resources and Internet traffic bandwidth but do not necessarily generate significant revenue. So a user characterized at a certain predetermined level may be shown certain limited number of features. Thus the page may still be shown but the page shown will be one that is cheaper and lighter without losing the content. The features that generate little revenue may be tracked and then automatically degraded. Accordingly the feature degradation and the request filtering may involve two variables revenue and resource. A better indicator to determine which feature to degrade or which request to filter may be a ratio of revenue divided by the computing power required to process the request.

The feature degradation may be specific to a pool of active connections so pools may decide their own features to be degraded as some features may be more valuable to some pools. In some embodiments the framework of the feature degradation may be pluggable and the domain owners may plug in their own solutions for the feature degradation. Thus a pool may designate a set of features corresponding to different levels of users that are to be degraded depending on how the features were rated by the domain owners in terms of the features revenue generation. When the feature degradation is turned on the features may be degraded based on their rating. In some embodiments the site may declare the features the capacity and when the features are to be degraded for example by 30 it may be determined which features to be degraded according to the declared features and the capacity.

At operation the aggregator may aggregate the revenue in a manner of aggregation discussed above with reference to the method . At decision block the processing module may determine whether or not the revenue to resource utilization ratio is above a predetermined threshold. If it is determined at decision block that the ratio is below the predetermined threshold no feature degradation may be performed at operation and the monitoring may continue using the monitoring module . If on the contrary it is determined by the monitoring module at decision block that the ratio is above the predetermined threshold the method may proceed to receive the state of the current degrading at operation using the monitoring module . At operation the processing module determines the degradation policy.

In some embodiments a response satisfying request may not be filtered because no filtering policy applies at the time so the request is allowed to pass through. Even if the response is not filtered if the feature degradation policy is enabled it may allow some limited features at the application tier. Thus at operation the degrading module may degrade the application level features notwithstanding the enforcement of the filtering policy. In some example embodiments because the feature degradation policy may affect the user interface features the feature degradation policy may be executed on the application server tier. is a graph illustrating an effect of applying a method for intelligent request filtering and a method for intelligent feature degradation on active connections in accordance with an example embodiment.

The graph in illustrates by a way of example active threads in a pool of active connections. There may be service requests coming into a number of application servers. The application servers may have a pool of threads where multiple threads are idle and waiting for an incoming request. As an example a server may have a maximum of ten threads. When the thread pool reaches the maximum number of threads it may not serve any more requests. Thus for example if there are 600 servers 6000 requests can be handled per second concurrently. With the number of service requests increasing the number of utilized connections may approach the maximum. At this point the feature degradation and request filters policies may be turned on and will start turning off features and turning away requests. It may be determined by the processing module that a network deficiency is caused as an example by low database a bug in an application server a free listing day or the pool of active connections reaching its capacity. The feature degradation and the request filtering policies may allow the pool of active connections to recover sooner and serve faster without affecting users who generate larger revenues to continue uninterrupted.

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or features described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of transfer protocols e.g. HTTP .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium may be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium may be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media. Such media may also include hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer hardware or a combination of software and hardware.

Thus a method and system to detect a network deficiency have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present application. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

