---

title: Coated-poly containers
abstract: A container for facilitating bulk storage and transport of goods, which includes a top portion, a base portion, and a sidewall portion which define an interior cavity, and a polyurea layer of sufficient thickness adhering to and coating at least the exterior areas of the top, base and sidewall portions. The top, base, and sidewall portions are preferably composed of polystyrene. The sidewall portion further includes a plurality of panels, wherein each of the plurality of panels includes end portions configured for interlocking engagement with one another to form a rigid joint exhibiting tensile strength.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07896182&OS=07896182&RS=07896182
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07896182
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071212
---
The present invention relates to containers and more particularly to a container exhibiting high strength lightweight and insulating properties adapted for facilitating safe bulk storage and transport of goods and cargo.

Since the beginning of the American Revolutionary War the United States Army has depended on the use of wooden boxes and crates to support its shipping storage and logistic needs. Now more than 230 years later the U.S. Department of Defense still relies on the use of millions of wooden boxes and crates for supporting the same needs. Although wooden boxes and crates have provided useful service they are generally expensive heavy for the carry volume and not environmentally friendly. Wooden boxes and crates are time consuming and labor intensive to assemble. They also do not offer a high degree of protection against the elements for the goods and cargo being stored or transported particularly against water moisture and fluctuating temperature changes.

Such wooden boxes and crates including cleated plywood boxes are typically assembled by fastening wooden panels and lumber with nails screws strapping poly or steel and the like. The assembling process thus requires the use of additional materials tools for fastening. The wooden box or crate may require disassembly to minimize space for subsequent re use. The disassembly process is also time consuming and labor intensive. The high cost and the time consuming nature of a carpenter built wooden box or crate further diminishes their ease of use and accessibility.

Corrugated cardboard materials are also used to make shipping containers. Such containers are relatively inexpensive but are very easily damaged and have limited reusable capabilities. With cardboard boxes if one of the sides is damaged the structural integrity of the package is compromised. When the items to be packaged are heavy in weight or have a high density the container must have a high bursting factor to support the stress pounds per square inch generated by this heavy weight. To obtain the proper high bursting factor the container is reinforced either by double boxing or by using boxes of double or triple wall thickness. This greatly reduces the carrying volume and significantly increases the weight of the box. Furthermore cardboard boxes provide little or slight protection against the elements and must be kept dry to prevent disintegration.

Accordingly there is a need to develop a container exhibiting high strength lightweight and insulating properties for facilitating safe bulk storage and transport of goods and cargo. There is a further need for a container that is cost effective and simple to fabricate and implement. There is a need for a container designed with enhanced bursting strength exceptional stacking strength low thermal conductivity pierce resistance wear abrasion resistance acid corrosion resistance and enhanced carrying volume to weight ratio while remaining relatively compact and lightweight.

The present invention relates generally to a container exhibiting high strength lightweight and insulating properties and adapted especially for facilitating safe bulk storage and transport of goods and cargo. The container of the present invention is designed with enhanced bursting strength exceptional stacking strength low thermal conductivity pierce resistance wear abrasion resistance acid corrosion resistance and enhanced carrying volume to weight ratio while remaining relatively compact and lightweight. The robust structure of the container of the present invention further provides enhanced shock absorbing performance. The container of the present invention is further designed to effectively protect the goods and cargo contained therein from the external effects of the environment including passage of water moisture and extreme temperature changes.

The container of the present invention comprises interlocking panels sections or portions providing ease of assembly without the need for tools or the efforts of skilled personnel. The panels of the container are adapted to form tight joints exhibiting high tensile strength. The container of the present invention further includes a coating of polyurea extending over at least the exterior portions of the panels which provides high exterior strength and exceptional performance. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the polyurea coating is a unitary layer covering at least substantially the entire exterior surface of the container. The container of the present invention can be readily recycled or re used thus further being environmentally friendly.

The container of the present invention is simple and cost effective to fabricate and implement. The container of the present invention is compact lightweight and rugged and can easily accommodate any goods or cargo. The container of the present invention is suitable for shipping and storage use and is especially suitable for use in the military sector where extreme environments including battlefield and urban warfare conditions are typically encountered.

In one aspect of the present invention there is provided a container for facilitating storage and transport of goods and cargo comprising 

a sidewall portion whereby the top and base portions are adapted for positioning the sidewall portion there between 

a polyurea layer of sufficient thickness adhering to and coating at least the exterior areas of the top base and sidewall portions thereof.

In a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a container for facilitating storage and transport of goods and cargo comprising 

a sidewall portion whereby the top and base portions are adapted for positioning the sidewall portion there between 

the sidewall portion comprises a plurality of panels each of the plurality of panels includes end portions configured for interlocking engagement with one another to form a rigid joint exhibiting tensile strength there between and

a polyurea layer of sufficient thickness adhering to and coating at least the exterior areas of the top base and sidewall portions thereof.

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a container for facilitating storage and transport of goods comprising 

the pair of side panels and the pair of end panels each including means for interlocking opposing end portions with one another whereby in the interlocked state the side and end panels form a rigid structure surrounding an interior storage volume with open top and bottom portions 

the base panel being adapted for receiving and closing off the open bottom portion of the interlocked pairs of side and end panels and

the top panel being adapted for receiving and closing off the open top portion of the interlocked pairs of side and end panels thereof.

The present invention relates generally to a container exhibiting high strength lightweight and insulating properties and adapted especially for facilitating safe bulk storage and transport of goods and cargo. The container of the present invention is designed with enhanced bursting strength exceptional stacking strength low thermal conductivity pierce resistance wear abrasion resistance acid corrosion resistance and enhanced carrying volume to weight ratio while remaining relatively compact and lightweight. The robust structure of the container of the present invention further provides enhanced shock absorbing performance. The container of the present invention is further designed to effectively protect the goods and cargo contained therein from the external effects of the environment including passage of water moisture and extreme temperature changes.

The container of the present invention comprises interlocking panels sections or portions providing ease of assembly without the need for tools or the efforts of skilled personnel. The panels of the container are adapted to form tight joints exhibiting high tensile strength. The container of the present invention further includes a coating of polyurea extending over at least the exterior portions of the panels which provides high exterior strength and exceptional performance. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the polyurea coating is a unitary layer covering at least substantially the entire exterior surface of the container. The container of the present invention can be readily recycled or re used thus further being environmentally friendly.

The container of the present invention is simple and cost effective to fabricate and implement. The container of the present invention is compact lightweight and rugged and can easily accommodate any goods or cargo. The container of the present invention is suitable for bulk shipping and storage use and is especially suitable for use in the military sector where extreme environments including battlefield and urban warfare conditions are typically encountered.

In one embodiment of the present invention there is provided a container for facilitating storage and transport of goods which includes a top portion a base portion and a sidewall portion whereby the top and base portions are adapted for positioning the sidewall portion there between wherein the top base and sidewall portions further define an interior cavity and a polyurea layer of sufficient thickness adhering to and coating at least the exterior areas of the top base and sidewall portions.

Referring to a container exhibiting high strength lightweight and insulating properties for safe storage and transport of goods and cargo is shown for one embodiment of the present invention. The container comprises a top panel or portion a base panel or portion located opposite from the top panel a pair of opposing side panels or portions and and a pair of opposing end panels or portions and . In this embodiment only three types of panel components or portions are fabricated to implement the present invention.

The panels and in combination define on the interior side thereof an inner cavity see for securely accommodating and retaining goods and cargo and include an outer surface on which adheres a layer of a polyurea compound. The polyurea compound is generally a reaction product of an isocyanate component and a resin blend component comprising amine terminated polymer resins and or amine terminated chain extenders. The polyurea layer exhibits a sufficient thickness that adheres to and coats at least the exterior side of the panels and .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the polyurea layer is a unitary layer covering at least substantially the entire exterior surface of the container . The polyurea layer can extend across the joints between the joined panels and to enhance the structural integrity and strength and sealing properties of the container . Optionally the joint between the top panel and the remainder of the container may remain unsealed to facilitate ease of access.

The polyurea layer is applied to the exterior side of the container and surface portions in contact with adjacent panels or . The application of the polyurea layer can be made prior to assembly of the container or after assembly. Optionally the polyurea layer can be applied to the interior sides of the panels and . To ensure proper adherence the surface areas of the panels and is prepped and cleaned to remove contaminants. The polyurea layer can be applied through any suitable means including spraying dipping and the like. The polyurea layer can further include a colorant to produce a desired color in the resulting container . Examples of such colors include black olive drab green desert sand Navy gray or any other colors desired.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the thickness of the polyurea layer is at least 0.030 inch and more preferably ranging from about 0.030 inch to 0.080 inch. The cured stress tensile is at least 2800 psi and preferably from about 2800 psi to 3000 psi. The cured elongation at 25 C. is at least 350 and preferably from about 350 to 375 . The cured hardness is about 90 Shore A. The cured tear strength ply is at least 400 PLI and the cured impact notch is at least 65 ft lb inch. An example of a suitable polyurea product is InstaCote M 25 marketed by InstaCote Inc. of Erie Mich.

The end portions of the side panels and and the end panels and are configured for interlocking engagement with one another to form a rigid joint exhibiting tensile strength i.e. resistance to being pulled apart therebetween. The top and base panels and the side panels and and the end panels and are preferably composed of a foam like polymer material and more preferably selected from polystyrenes polyethylenes polypropylenes and combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the polymer material is in an extruded form. The panels and can be formed through for example sheet stamping and injection molding or hot wire cutting. The foam like polymer material exhibits a density of at least 1.5 lbs per cubic foot and preferably from about 2.8 to 3.2 lbs per cubic foot. The R or thermal value of the foam like polymer material for the lower density material is at least 3.5 R Value per every inch thickness. It is noted that as the density of the material increases the R value decreases. It is further noted that as the density of the polymer material increases the strength of the container increases.

Optionally the container can further comprise at least one strap fasteners in the form of a flat metal strapping for securing the closure of the container and a plurality of corner protectors located at each corner areas of the container to ensure proper placement of the strap fasteners . It will be understood that the present invention is not limited to strap fasteners for securing closure and that other securing mechanisms can also be used as known to one skilled in the art.

Each of the top and base panels and the side panels and and the end panels and are configured to fit and couple with one another to form a stable and interlocking structure. As shown in the top and base panels and include a stepped protrusion centrally located on the interior side thereof. The stepped protrusion slightly projects into the interior cavity to provide a snug fit with the assembled structure of the side panels and and the end panels and as will be described hereinafter.

The side panels and each include a pin or projection extending from opposing ends thereof. The end panels and each include a corresponding tail or groove cut into the interior surface at the end portions thereof. The pins and the tails can be formed through any suitable means including but not limited to shaping and cutting via hot wire foam cutting 3 and 5 axis routers or molding. The pins of the side panels and are configured to snugly fit into the corresponding tails of the end panels and to form a dovetail joint. The dovetail joint can be selected from a through dovetail joint a half blind dovetail joint a sliding dovetail joint a full blind dovetail joint and any combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the dovetail joint is a sliding dovetail joint.

Referring to the top and base panels and are shown for one embodiment of the present invention. Each of the top and base panels and is rectangular in shape and includes the stepped protrusion located central on the interior side thereof. The polyurea layer is generally applied to coat a top surface edge surfaces and a flange surface of the top and base panels and . The stepped protrusions of the top and base panels and provide a snug fit and sealing contact with the assembled side panels and and the end panels and as shown in . Optionally a bead of sealant can be applied to edge portions along the periphery of the stepped protrusion to further enhance sealing contact and provide a small interference fit.

Referring to the side panels and are shown for one embodiment of the present invention. Each of the side panels and is rectangular in shape and includes the pins or projections extending from opposing ends thereof. The polyurea layer is generally applied to coat an outer surface and an edge surface of the side panels and . Optionally the polyurea layer can be applied to coat an inside surface .

The pins of the side panels and are adapted to fit into and mate with the corresponding tails of the end panels and see to form a snug fit joint therebetween. The pins and the tails are trapezoidal in shape and configured to fit together with no gap therebetween so that the joint interlocks tightly with no movement. The resulting joint forms a sliding dovetail joint. The angle of the slope of the trapezoid can range depending on the hardness of the side panels and and the end panels and and the slope can range from 1 6 to 1 8 and preferably 1 7.

Referring to the end panels and are shown for one embodiment of the present invention. Each of the end panels and is rectangular in shape and includes the tails located proximate the ends on the interior side thereof. The end panels and further include an outer surface side surfaces top and bottom surfaces and an inside surface . The polyurea layer is generally applied to coat the outer surface the side surfaces the top and bottom surfaces of the end panels and . Optionally the polyurea layer can be applied to coat the inside surface . The tails of the end panels and are each in the form of a straight groove extending between the top and bottom surfaces and are adapted to fit into and mate with the corresponding pins of the side panels and see to form a snug fit joint therebetween.

With references to the container can be readily assembled in a simple manner. The top panel is prepped and cleared of contaminants on the surface and may be pre coated with the polyurea layer over the areas previously described above. The top panel is set aside to allow the polyurea layer to properly dry and cure. The base panel is placed flat with the stepped protrusion extending upward. Each of the end panels and are placed on the flange portion and abutting against the edge portion of the base panel respectively with the tails facing towards one another. Each of the side panels and are placed on the flange portion of the base panel with the pins sliding into the corresponding tails of the end panels and .

Once assembled the panels and form a bottom structure of the container . The bottom structure of the container is prepped and cleared of contaminants on the surface. The polyurea layer is applied as a unitary coating to the exterior portions of the bottom structure of the container . The polyurea layer securely retains the corresponding panels and to one another thus enhancing tensile strength and rigidity therebetween. The coated bottom structure is set aside to allow the polyurea layer to properly dry and cure.

Once the polyurea layer is fully cured the pre coated top panel is placed on top of the bottom structure formed by the coupled bottom side and end panels and with the stepped protrusion inserted into the interior cavity to form the container . Optionally a bead of sealant such as silicone can be applied around the sealing edge portions of the top and base panels and to provide a small interference fit to seal the container and or along the inside seams or joints of the container after assembly. The corner protectors are placed at the corner portions of the top and base panels and and the strap fasteners are affixed around the container on the corner protectors for securing closure of the container .

A test study was implemented to test and evaluate four test containers two containers one of each density tested to ASTM D 4169 DC 18 and two containers one of each density stack tested to 30 000 lb or failure whichever occurs first . The test containers were constructed and packaged as specified below.

A sample size of four test containers two containers for ASTM D 4169 DC 18 Schedule H and F testing and two containers for ASTM D 4169 DC 18 Schedule B stack to failure testing was delivered in a new untested condition to the PSCC Testing Lab for ASTM D4169 Distribution Cycle 18 testing.

These test containers included a bead of silicon added to the test containers top where it contacts the inside edge of the test container when closed. The test containers were designed for use as a Level A shipping container for ground and air transportation of Carrier Assay Assemblies Assay Strips.

The test containers were developed in accordance with military handling requirements to include preservation packing unitization and marking. The Carrier Assay Assemblies required passive temperature control for shipment. Carrier Assay Assemblies are sensitive to extreme temperature conditions including freezing temperatures and elevated temperatures. One of the requirements for the test containers is protection of the Carrier Assay Assemblies from extreme temperature for about 72 hours.

Two test containers of different densities were packaged at the testing facility and banded. The test containers were pre numbered by the customer ID and density numbers and used throughout the test for identification of results. The test container ID dimensions and weights are shown in Table 1 below.

The Carrier Assay Assemblies were packaged and cushioned in their individual fiberboard containers and then in water vapor proof bags along with desiccant packs. A temperature indicator was placed in the interior of the containers to alert whether the Carrier Assay Assemblies has been exposed to temperature environments beyond the limits of the Carrier Assay Assemblies. The individually packed Carrier Assay Assemblies were placed in a 3 to 4 lb density polyethylene containers having a removable lid. The exterior surfaces and interior top edges of the test containers were sprayed with a commercially available polyurea product. The inside surface of the lid and interior of the packaging remained unsprayed in its original extruded condition. A bead of silicon was placed around the entire inside of the top edge of the removable top where contact is made with the inside edge of the test container when closed. Closure sealing was accomplished using three pieces of 0.023 steel banding.

All testing was performed in the PSCC container laboratory with ambient conditions ranging from 70 to 74 degrees Fahrenheit and 43 to 56 percent Relative Humidity unless stated otherwise. A Tenney Environmental Walk in T H chamber Model WITR Calibration expiration date 14 Mar. 2008 was used for conditioning. Temperature and humidity were recorded using a Honeywell DR 4300 chart recorder and controlled with a Tenney Versa Tenn III controller.

The test containers were inspected for damage as received prior to testing. The number 2 and 3 test containers used for schedule H and F testing were packaged gross weight of 57 lb by the customer according to an established government SPI at the PSCC container laboratory. On completion of packaging the test containers were placed into a T H walk in chamber and conditioned in accordance with ASTM D 4332 in standard conditions 73.4 F. 1.4 50 RH 5 for a minimum of 72 hours prior to testing.

The test containers were tested in accordance with requirements of ASTM D 4169 05 schedules H F and B per Distribution Cycle 18 Quality Assurance Level I Level A Military packaging per MIL STD 2073 1D Acceptance criteria 1 for Small Shipping Containers. Small shipping containers are defined as one having no edge dimension or diameter over 60 inches and a gross weight of 150 lb or less. The test schedule is shown in Table 2 below.

The acceptance criteria at the completion of the test included compliance with Criterion 1 of ASTM D 4169 and protection of the Carrier Assay Assemblies against damage. Although both of these test containers have a re usable application for other products they will not be used as re usable test containers in the JBPDS life cycle. Minor damage or minor blemishes to the test containers may be allowed at the discretion of the government as long as these conditions do not affect the performance of the test container or its expected life as a non reusable test container as used in this application. Pass Fail ratings were given for each test.

Testing procedures were conducted on the loaded test containers in the following sequence with results included for each procedure.

Schedule H Environmental Hazards Fourth Sequence determines the susceptibility of the total pack to the effects of moisture temperature shock or the combined effects of cyclic exposure. The Environmental Hazards test was implemented over a four day testing period. A Tenney Environmental walk in chamber with a Watlow 920 series controller and Honeywell model 9500 chart recorder was used to accomplish the temperature exposure of the testing and Packaging Rain Room with water recycling system capable of up to 6 inches of rainfall per hour .

The environmental test was performed in accordance with ASTM D 4169 para 15.1 15.2 and Test Method D 951 99 where spray intensity of 4 1 inches per hour is used for Assurance Level I. Rainfall levels were recorded using a LaCrosse model WS 7048U Rain. Meter self calibrating . Testing was performed at ambient conditions of 70 74 F. 43 56 RH. The test levels used to perform this test is shown in Table 4 below.

After the environmental testing was completed the test containers were weighed and examined for damage. The average weight gain per container after environmental exposure was approximately 4 lb. The test containers were palletized for ease of handling transportation on their sides to check for excessive water inside prior to vibration testing. Although the test containers leaked at the sealed top edges there was no excessive water runout from inside. A PASS was given for this test.

The test levels and test methods for Schedule F Loose Load Vibration Fifth Sequence of the distribution cycle were intended to determine the ability of shipping units to withstand the vertical vibration environment during transport. The test levels and methods account for the magnitude frequency range duration and direction of vibration. The Loose Load Vibration test was implemented at ambient conditions of 70 F. 56 RH. Vibration tests were conducted on the loaded test container as specified in ASTM D 999 01 Method A2 Repetitive Shock Test Rotary Motion .

This test was conducted on an L.A.B. Model 2000V 2 000 pound capacity and Model 1250V 1250 pound capacity vibration table with the double amplitude displacement of the vibration table fixed at one inch. The test ran for a total of three hours per test container . The test containers were vibrated for 90 minutes in the longitudinal orientation test container end to left then rotated 90 degrees and vibrated for 90 minutes in the lateral orientation test container end to front . Table 5 shows the RPM Hz required for liftoff of the different test containers.

There was minor scuffing of all four tested containers bottoms caused by the rotary motion of the vibration table and friction of the package on the table s platform. There was no other visible damage. A PASS rating was given for this test.

At the completion of sequence two the two tested were opened and assessed for damage. When opened and unpacked test container was dry inside but there was a slight feeling of moisture present on the bottom of the intermediate packagings. The intermediate packagings were damage free and were not opened due to their condition. Upon opening and unpacking it was concluded that the seals silicon bead on both test containers had slight leaks contributing to the 4 lb gain in container weight test container was a bit damper than test container and had a few small droplets of water inside due to the environmental exposure testing . The outside of the test container showed no splits or other damage as did the inside. Both test containers were given a PASS rating at test completion.

The purpose of Schedule B Warehouse Stacking Third Sequence destructive was to determine the structural strength of the test containers in relationship to each other. The test container was manufactured from polyethylene materials and coated with a polyurea material. The test container with the sprayed on polyurea coating was proposed to reduce cost provide better water proof protection provide thermal protection when required and reduce weight of the current pack. This test container has military applications far beyond the current configuration.

In the Stacking Test a static load of 30 000 lb was placed on each test container empty until failure. The test was implemented for strength comparison only. This test was conducted on a Gaynes Model 30KCT Compression Tester with a 30 000 pound compressive limit. Calibration expiration date is April 2007. Testing was performed at ambient conditions of 72 F. 43 RH. Stacking test of the test containers was performed in accordance with Test Method ASTM D 642 00 and ASTM D 4169 04a para 11.3. The test container ID and stack weights used for testing are shown in Table 6 below.

As shown in Table 7 below the test containers reached peak loads of 12 508 lb and 17 490 lb before losing structural strength causing the sidewalls to bow. The lid of the test containers was critical in adding to its strength absorbing most of the compression approx. 0.75 inches observed during testing.

It can be concluded from the results of testing that there is still a small problem sealing the test container tops but considerable progress was made as indicated by the weight gain seen during environmental exposure testing which showed less than half the weight gain experienced during testing on similar container without the silicon bead seal added.

The polyurea coating added to the interior top edge added structural strength to the test container preventing the inner cracking and separations seen in the previous testing of the same container design during stack to failure of the container. The test containers used in the packaging of the Carrier Assay Assemblies Assay Strips are durable and would be an acceptable replacement for cleated panel board boxes as a shipping container used for shipment of the parts thus reducing the cost of packaging and shipping to the government. Recommendations include different placement of the silicon beading on the test container tops along with a different banding pattern to prevent the induction of water moisture to the interior of the test containers.

The forgoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims. For example side panels and can alternatively be square in shape as can be the end panels and and the top and base panels and .

