---

title: End-to-end joining of nanotubes
abstract: A method for joining nanotubes end-to-end, includes contacting the nanotubes with a joining fluid. The joining fluid has at least one property that is different from at least one property associated with ends of the nanotubes. In one embodiment, the method further includes contacting the nanotubes with a first, treating fluid and removing the bulk first fluid before the nanotubes are contacted with the joining fluid. The joining fluid is immiscible in the treating fluid to effect end-to-end joining of the nanotubes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08012278&OS=08012278&RS=08012278
owner: University of Pittsburgh—of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education
number: 08012278
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070427
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 796 283 filed Apr. 28 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under the Department of Defense Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative MURI Grant No. DAAD19 01 1 0619. As such the United States government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to end to end joining of nanotubes and particularly to methods of end to end joining of nanotubes based upon physiochemical properties of the nanotube ends.

Tubular microstructures including carbon and other nanotubes have attracted enormous attention over the past decade as a result of their potential significance in microelectronic devices and nanobiotechnology Iijima et al. vol. 363 603 1993 Hirsch et al. . vol. 41 1853 2002 . One of the primary reasons for using nanotubes on these applications is their hollow structures that can transport biomaterials as well as electronic signals and also can provide a space for cell growth. For this objective the control of nanotubes in diameter and length is essential to enhance the selectivity and detection limit of nanotubes against target materials. Along with the carbon nanotubes diacetylene nanotubes were observed by Schoen and Yager . vol. 106 371 1984 as having assembled in water from liposomes of the two chain chiral lipid diacetylene 1 2 bis tricosa 10 12 diynoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholine DCPC . Tubules formed from DCPC have an average diameter of 0.5 m and lengths which range from 50 to 200 m. The size and stability of these tubules were sensitive to preparation conditions and thermal history resulting in a non homogenous preparation. Other work with chiral lipids bearing two diacetylenic chains has demonstrated that it is difficult to generate uniform nanotube structures from these precursors see e.g. Thomas et al. vol. 267 1635 1995 Spector et al. vol. 1 375 1984 Wand et al. vol. 15 6135 1999 Svenson et al. vol. 15 4464 1999 Seddon et al. . vol. 41 2988 2002 and Thomas et al. . vol. 124 1227 2002 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference .

Various attempts have been made to control nanotubes diameters and lengths by changing chemical modification and fabrication method of amphiphilic diacetylene lipids. Schoen et al. have discussed method of making lipid tubules composed of chiral diacetylenic phosphocholine by a cooling process. See U.S. Pat. No. 4 990 291. The diacetylenic phosphocholines have distinctly different endothermic and exothermic transition temperatures. Lipid tubules can be formed by hydrating a diacetylenic phosphocholine at a temperature above its endothermic transition temperature then slowly lowering the temperature. However the tubule like structures discussed in these publications were quite heterogeneous.

It remains desirable to develop compositions systems and methods to improve control of nanotube dimensions.

In several embodiments the present invention provides methods for variation and control of nanotube dimensions and particularly length via end to end joining of nanotubes without the use of templates. Further the present invention also provides methods for permanently joining end to end nanotubes of the present invention for example via the polymerization of polymerizable end to end joined nanotubes of the present invention . Nanotubes suitable for use in the present invention include but are not limited to diacetylenic nanotubes carbon nanotubes silica nanotubes porphyrin nanotubes boron nitride nanotubes tungsten disulfide nanotubes zeolite nanotubes polymeric lipid based nanotubes carbohydrate based nanotubes peptide nanotubes WSnanotubes vanadium oxide nanotubes polyaniline nanotubes Au nanotubes gallium nitride nanotubes Fullerene nanotubes MoSnanotubes InP nanotubes rhenium IV sulfide nanotubes steroid nanotubes alumina nanotubes titania nanotubes tellurium nanotubes NbSnanotubes block copolymer nanotubes and combinations thereof.

In one aspect the present invention provides a method for joining nanotubes end to end including contacting the nanotubes with a joining fluid. The joining fluid has at least one property that is different from at least one property associated with ends of the nanotubes. In one embodiment the method further includes contacting the nanotubes with a treating fluid before the nanotubes are contacted with the joining fluid. The treating fluid can be immiscible in the joining fluid. In this embodiment the method can further include removing the bulk first fluid before contacting the nanotubes with the second joining fluid to effect end to end joining of the nanotubes. As used herein the term immiscible refers to two fluid phase which do not form a homogeneous mixture. The method can further include the step of removing the second joining fluid.

In one embodiment the first treating fluid is polar or nonpolar and the second joining fluid is polar if the treating fluid is nonpolar or the joining fluid is nonpolar if the treating fluid is polar. Other immiscible treating fluid joining fluid pairs can also be used for example aqueous phases organic phases and organic phases fluorous phases . In several embodiments of the present invention the treating fluid is nonpolar and the joining fluid is polar. Examples of suitable nonpolar fluids for use in the present invention include but are not limited to linear branched and or cyclic alkanes such as pentane hexane heptane octane isooctane nonane decane and or cyclohexane. Examples of polar fluids suitable for use in the present invention include but are not limited to water alcohols chloroform and or dichloromethane.

The nanotubes can for example be formed from one or more amphiphilic diacetylenic compounds. In several embodiments with amphiphilic diacetylenic compounds nonpolar polar fluid phase pairs are used to effect end to end joining as described above. In several embodiments the nanotubes are formed from one or more amphiphilic non chiral single chain diacetylenic compounds. The amphiphilic non chiral compounds can for example have the structure W C C C C V L Q Y

wherein the moiety W C C C C V is a bilayer compatible hydrophobic chain L is a linker group comprising a chain from about 1 to 10 atoms and Q and Y together are an ion pair. Q can for example be a protonated secondary amine. In several embodiments Q is a NHR group and R is a Cto Calkyl group. W can for example be a Cto Calkyl group. V can for example be a Cto Calkylene group. In several embodiments L is a CONH CH group and m is about 2 to 8.

In several embodiments of the present invention the nanotubes are formed by self assembly of at least one of N 10 12 pentacosadiynoyl N ethylethylenediamine hydrobromide N 10 12 pentacosadiynoyl N N diethylethylenediamine hydrobromide N 10 12 pentacosadiynoyl N N N triethylethylenediammonium bromide N 10 12 pentacosadiynoyl N ethylethylenediamine and or N 10 12 pentacosadiynoyl N N diethylethylenediamine.

Contacting the nanotubes with the treating fluid can for example include adding the treating fluid to the nanotubes in a container and sonicating the treating fluid. The method can further include adding a support surface into the treating fluid and sonicating to attach the nanotubes to the support surface. Removing the bulk treating fluid can for example include removing the support surface from the container and drying the support surface. The support surface can be rinsed with the treating fluid after removal from the container and before drying. Contacting the nanotubes with the joining fluid can for example include adding the joining fluid to the support surface and removing the joining fluid can include allowing the support surface to dry.

The method can further include the step of polymerizing the end to end joined nanotubes. For example nanotubes formed from amphiphilic diacetylenic compound can be irradiated with ultraviolet light to effect polymerization.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method for joining nanotubes end to end including associating a physiochemical property with ends of the nanotubes and contacting the nanotubes with a fluid having properties different from the physiochemical property to effect end to end joining of the nanotubes.

In still another aspect the present invention provides a composition including end to end joined nanotubes formed by contacting nanotubes with a joining fluid to effect end to end joining of the nanotubes wherein the joining fluid has at least one property that is different from at least one property associated with ends of the nanotubes. In one embodiment before the nanotubes are contacted with the joining fluid the nanotubes are contacted with a treating fluid as described above. The bulk treating fluid can be removed before contacting the nanotubes with a joining fluid. The joining fluid is immiscible in the treating fluid.

Among a variety of potential uses the connection association and disconnection dissociation of nanotubes of the present invention can for example provide the potential for the connection of two electronic circuits and for the connection of a nano bridge between neuronal cells.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a cyclic moiety includes a plurality of such cyclic moieties and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth and reference to the nanotube is a reference to one or more such nanotubes and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

As described above the present invention generally provides a method for the end to end joining of nanotubes. In several embodiments the present invention takes advantage of one or more physiochemical properties associated with the ends of the nanotubes. Nanotubes having a certain property associated with the ends thereof are contacted with or placed within a fluid which has a property that is different from or incompatible with the property of the nanotube ends.

The property associated with the ends of the nanotubes can be a physiochemical property of the nanotube itself. For example both ends of self assembled diacetylenic nanotubes may be hydrophobic as for example compared to the inner and outer wall of the nanotube where hydrophilic head groups are exposed. illustrates nanotubes having ends that have one or more physiological properties associated therewith. For example ends can be hydrophobic as in the case of diacetylenic nanotubes. The nanotubes are contact with or placed within a joining fluid that has properties that are different from or incompatible with the property of the nanotube ends as described above see Example 2 below . Without limitation to any mechanism it is believed that the nanotube ends which share a like property have an affinity for each other resulting in an end to end joining of the nanotubes when the nanotubes are within the joining fluid. After end to end joining is achieved as illustrated in the joining fluid can be removed for example evaporated to leave the end to end joined nanotubes.

One or more properties associated with the ends of the nanotubes can also be enhanced or altered. For example the nanotubes can be contacted with or placed within a first or treating fluid having the property or properties desired to be associated with nanotube ends as illustrated in see also Example 3 below . Without limitation to any mechanism it is believed that some of the chemical entities of the first fluid become associated with the nanotube ends. The treated nanotubes are then contacted with or placed within a second or joining fluid that has properties that are different from or incompatible with the properties of the first fluid and thus different from properties associated with the nanotube ends . As described above and without limitation to any mechanism it is believed that the nanotube ends which share a like property as enhanced or provided by the first fluid have an affinity for each other resulting in an end to end joining of the nanotubes when the nanotubes are within the second or joining fluid.

Several aspects of the present invention are described herein through representative examples of end to end joining and polymerization of end to end joined self assembled diacetylene nanotubes having generally uniform dimensions. In several representative studies of the present invention end to end joining of the diacetylene nanotubes was effected by sequential contacting of the nanotubes with a nonpolar fluid and then a polar fluid as described above. In that regard diacetylenic nanotubes can be contacted with or placed within a first non polar fluid to associate a non polar chemical entity for example hexane with the hydrophobic ends of the diacetylenic nanotubes. The diacetylenic nanotubes are then placed within a second polar fluid for example methanol in which the nanotube ends align and join as described above and as illustrated in

The remarkable ability of achiral amphiphilic diacetylenes with secondary amine salt head groups to form uniform self assembled nanotubes has been described in S. Lee et al. . 2004 126 13400 13405 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. It has also been shown that the diacetylene molecules in these nanotubes are well aligned and amenable to polymerization. See S. Lee et al. 2005 5 11 2202 2206 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The synthesis and or polymerization of such nanotubes are also described in Published PCT International Applications WO 2006 08589 and WO 2006 132662 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Suitable diacetylenic nanotubes for use in the present invention include but are not limited to those formed by self assembly of at least one compound having formula W C C C C V L Q X wherein the moiety W C C C C V is a bilayer compatible hydrophobic chain L is a linker comprising a chain of from 1 to 10 atoms and Q and X together are an ion pair. In several embodiments the compound has formula CH CH C C C C CH CONH L NR R X wherein a b is from about 4 to about 30 L is selected from the group consisting of CHCH CHCHCH and CHCHZCHCH where Z is selected from the group consisting of CH O S and NR X is a leaving group each R is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C Calkyl and C Caryl wherein each R is optionally substituted with at least one selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo acyl alkenyl alkoxyl alkyl alkylamino amino aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl and heterocyclylalkyl and R is C Calkyl optionally substituted with at least one selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo acyl alkenyl alkoxyl alkyl alkylamino amino aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl and heterocyclylalkyl.

In general L is a spacer of from one to ten atoms in length. Suitable spacers include but are not limited to atom chains comprising CHCH CHCHCH CHCHOCHCH CHCHSCHCH CHCHNHCHCHor CHCHNRCHCH and may optionally incorporate keto ester and or amide moieties. In several embodiments the spacer comprises an amide. For example in several embodiments L is selected from CONHCHCH CONHCHCHCH CONHCHCHOCHCH CONHCHCHSCHCH or CONHCHCHNHCHCH.

In several embodiments the nanotube are prepared by self assembly of at least one of the following diacetylenes 

In a representative example of end to end joining of for example diacetylene nanotubes of the present invention a non polar solvent is added to a vial containing diacetylene nanotubes and the vial is sonicated in an ultrasonic bath to detach the nanotubes from the walls of the container. Next the liquid is transferred to a second container and a fresh non polar solvent is added followed by further sonication to disperse the nanotubes. A clean 25 mm 75 mm glass slide is placed in the resulting nanotube suspension to serve as a support surface and the solution is agitated for 5 minutes to coat the glass slide with nanotubes. Without limitation to any particular mechanism the nanotubes presumably attach themselves to the glass surface via electrostatic interactions between surface silicate anions and the quaternary or protonated amine in the diacetylene monomer head group and or by hydrogen bonding interactions. The slide is then briefly rinsed with the same solvent and dried overnight in vacuo at room temperature.

Suitable non polar fluids solvents for use in the present invention can for example be linear branched or cyclic alkanes and include but are not limited to pentane hexane heptane octane isooctane nonane decane cyclohexane and the like as well as mixtures thereof. Sonication is typically conducted in a water bath at room temperature. An ultrasonic bath with a power level of 100 W is suitable the sonication method is preferably continuous rather than pulsed.

After removal of the bulk non polar fluid from the surface bound nanotubes for example via drying overnight in vacuo at room temperature a suitable polar fluid solvent is for example added to the surface bound nanotubes for the end end joining. Suitable polar fluids solvent for use in the present invention can be linear branched or cyclic and include but are not limited to water alcohols hydrocarbons and the like and mixtures thereof.

As described above in several embodiments the present invention provides for the end to end joining of nanotubes by simple fluid solvent treatment without the use of templates. Once again the end to end joining of self assembled diacetylenic nanotubes described in the experimental examples set forth below and a possible mechanism for the end to end joining of nanotubes of the present invention are illustrated in . Without limitation to any mechanism and with reference to after removal of the bulk first or treating fluid an amount of the first fluid hexane for example can remain associated with the ends and or interior of the nanotubes. For example the first fluid can be entrained within the nanotubes or otherwise associated with the ends of the nanotubes for example via a molecular interaction or via capillary action . A first fluid fluid phase in which the fluid molecules are of suitable size to be retained within the nanotubes can be preferred. Moreover the first treating fluid and the second joining fluid should be compatible with the nanotubes. For example it is not desirable to completely solubilize the nanotubes. Upon immersion of the nanotubes in the second or treating fluid for example immiscible in the first fluid for example of opposite polarity to the first fluid an interaction and or affinity between the ends of the nanotubes may result in end to end joining thereof.

As described above both ends of self assembled diacetylenic nanotube may be slightly hydrophobic which may facilitate association interaction of a nonpolar fluid such as hexane with the ends of the nanotubes. Diacetylenic nanotubes having a length of approximately 1 micron first contacted with or immersed in hexane were subsequently connected to each other lengthening them up to for example 10 microns through contact with or immersion in a methanol solution. The resulting end to end nanotubes were much longer than the original nanotubes but maintained the uniform diameters of the original nanotubes. shows a scanning electron microscopy SEM image of nanotubes of the present invention on a glass slide. illustrate end to end joined nanotubes of the present invention on a glass slide. illustrate transmission electron microscopy TEM images of nanotubes showing joints between end to end joined nanotubes of the present invention. An inset C in illustrates an enlarged view of a nanotube joint. Complete polymerization of the nanotubes under UV light provided a reversible blue to red color transition. Such color transitions can for example be induced via changes in temperature changes in pH mechanical stresses and exposure to various chemical and or biochemical entities.

Although the present invention has been discussed above in connection with diacetylenic nanotubes the methods of the present invention can be used with generally any type of nanotubes. For example nanotubes suitable for use in the present invention include but are not limited to carbon nanotubes silica nanotubes porphyrin nanotubes boron nitride nanotubes tungsten disulfide nanotubes zeolite nanotubes polymeric lipid based nanotubes carbohydrate based nanotubes peptide nanotubes WSnanotubes vanadium oxide nanotubes polyaniline nanotubes Au nanotubes gallium nitride nanotubes Fullerene nanotubes MoSnanotubes InP nanotubes rhenium IV sulfide nanotubes steroid nanotubes alumina nanotubes titania nanotubes tellurium nanotubes NbSnanotubes block copolymer nanotubes and combinations thereof.

The following experimental examples illustrate several aspects of the present invention and are set forth to aid in the understanding of the invention. The experimental examples should not be construed to limit in any way the scope of the invention as defined in the claims which follow thereafter.

Hexane 20 mL was added to a vial containing dried diacetylene nanotubes 10 mg and the vial was sonicated in a sonic bath at room temperature for 5 min to detach the NTs from inside of the vial. Next the hexane solution was transferred to a 250 mL glass bottle and fresh hexane 230 mL was added followed by another 5 min sonication at room temperature to disperse the nanotubes. A glass slide 25 mm 75 mm was placed in the nanotube solution and sonicated for 5 minutes to coat the glass slide with nanotubes. After the sonication was complete the glass slide was again transferred to a 250 ml glass bottle containing fresh hexane 230 mL . The slide was rinsed for 5 minutes and the dried overnight in a vacuum oven at room temperature.

A dried glass slide 25 mm 75 mm coated with diacetylene nanotubes was cut into several pieces of 10 mm 10 mm slides for nanotubes connection experiment. 100 L of polar solvents such as methanol and propanol were added on a small glass slide and allowed it to dry at room temperature for the end to end joining of nanotubes.

A dried glass slide 25 mm 75 mm coated with nanotubes from EXAMPLE 1 was cut into several pieces of 10 mm 10 mm slides. 100 L of hexane as a nonpolar solvent was added on a small glass slide and allowed to dry at room temperature. Subsequently 100 L of a polar solvent such as methanol and or propanol were added on a small glass slide and allowed to dry at room temperature for the end to end joining of nanotubes.

Glass slides 25 mm 75 mm coated with short or long nanotubes as described above were placed in a UV crosslinker Spectrolinker XL 1000 Spectronics Corp. Westbury N.Y. . One side of the slide was wiped clean with tissue paper soaked with methanol so that only one side of the slide had nanotubes on the surface. The heat inside the UN crosslinker was cooled down by the strong air flow. The nanotube containing surface faced a 6100 W cmlow pressure mercury lamp with maximum emission at 254 nm positioned 15 cm above the glass slide. At 1 min intervals the absorbance spectrum of the nanotubes was measured on a Perkin Elmer spectrophotometer model Lambda 45 . Polymerization was confirmed by a reversible blue to red color transition.

The foregoing description and accompanying drawings set forth preferred embodiments of the invention at the present time. Various modifications additions and alternative designs will of course become apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing teachings without departing from the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is indicated by the following claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes and variations that fall within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

