---

title: Sabot
abstract: A sabot with exactly two complimentary halves, wherein each half portion comprises teeth configured to interlock with teeth of the other half portion. The sabot may further comprise a semi-circular groove configured in the teeth of each half portion. Also, each half portion may comprise at least one indented conical end. Preferably, on each half portion, the teeth are spaced apart from the at least one indented conical end. Moreover, each half portion may comprise translucent polycarbonate material. Furthermore, each half portion may be adapted to flush mount together to form a substantially cylindrical configuration when the teeth are interlocked. Additionally, the sabot may further comprise a semi-circular groove configured in the teeth of each half portion, wherein the semi-circular groove extends to the at least one indented conical end.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07958829&OS=07958829&RS=07958829
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07958829
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071102
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 857 494 filed on Nov. 8 2006 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to ammunition and explosives and more particularly to sabots used when firing ammunition and explosives.

In military ordnance arts carriers for projectiles known as sabots have been used to facilitate the firing of a variety of ammunitions. Generally a sabot is a carrier for a projectile that permits the firing of a variety of projectiles of a smaller caliber within a larger caliber weapon. Moreover a sabot is used to provide structured support to a projectile within a gun tube under extremely high loads. Accordingly without adequate support from a sabot a projectile may break up into many pieces when fired.

Typically a sabot fills the bore of the gun tube while encasing the projectile to permit uniform and smooth firing of the weapon. Preferably the projectile is centrally located within the sabot that is generally radially symmetrical. After firing the sabot and projectile clear the bore of the gun tube and the sabot is normally discarded some distance from the gun tube while the projectile continues toward the target. Typically when the sabot reaches the end of the gun barrel the force of hitting the air pulls the sabot away from the projectile thereby allowing the projectile to continue in flight. While several types of sabot designs are available these designs may be overly cumbersome and may have high manufacturing costs associated with them. Moreover typical sabots comprise three piece configurations having smooth uniform surfaces.

Furthermore when conventional smooth sabots i.e. sabots with smooth surfaces and without means for holding the sabot pieces together are used they tend to slide back and forth in the gun barrel which makes it difficult to line up the projectile and can create significant and unwanted pitch and yaw of the projectile. To ameliorate this situation one could use a pusher behind the sabot. Typically the pusher is constructed of steel and also impacts the target which in target practice is undesirable. Furthermore the pusher may interfere with the preferred trajectory of the projectile. Therefore there remains a need for an improved sabot offering a low cost solution which can be easily utilized in practice.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment provides a two piece sabot comprising a first piece comprising a first set of raised teeth configured on a first side of the first piece and a second piece comprising a second set of raised teeth configured on a first side of the second piece wherein the first set of raised teeth is dimensioned and configured to interlock with the second set of raised teeth. The sabot may further comprise a groove configured in the first and second set of raised teeth. Preferably each of the first and second pieces comprise at least one indented conical end. Also the first set of raised teeth is preferably spaced apart from the at least one indented conical end and the second set of raised teeth is preferably spaced apart from the at least one indented conical end. Moreover each of the first and second pieces may comprise translucent polycarbonate material. Furthermore the first and second pieces are preferably adapted to flush mount together to form a substantially cylindrical configuration when the first set of raised teeth is interlocked with the second set of raised teeth. Additionally the sabot may further comprise a groove configured in the first and second set of raised teeth wherein the groove extends to the at least one indented conical end.

Another embodiment provides a sabot comprising a first half portion comprising a first set of raised teeth configured on a first side of the first half portion and a substantially curved surface configured on a second side of the first half portion a second half portion comprising a first set of raised teeth configured on a first side of the second half portion and a substantially curved surface configured on a second side of the second half portion a semi circular groove configured through each of the first side of the first half portion and the first side of the second half portion wherein the first set of raised teeth is dimensioned and configured to interlock with the second set of raised teeth upon mating of the first side of the first half portion with the first side of the second half portion.

Preferably each of the first and second half portions comprise at least one indented conical end. Moreover the first set of raised teeth is preferably spaced apart from the at least one indented conical end and the second set of raised teeth is preferably spaced apart from the at least one indented conical end. Furthermore each of the first and second half portions may comprise translucent polycarbonate material. Also the first and second half portions are preferably adapted to flush mount together to form a substantially cylindrical configuration when the first set of raised teeth is interlocked with the second set of raised teeth. Additionally the semi circular groove may be configured in each of the first and second set of raised teeth wherein the semi circular groove preferably extends to the at least one indented conical end.

Another embodiment provides a sabot comprising exactly two complimentary halves wherein each half portion comprises teeth configured to interlock with teeth of the other half portion. The sabot may further comprise a semi circular groove configured in the teeth of each half portion. Also each half portion may comprise at least one indented conical end. Preferably on each half portion the teeth are spaced apart from the at least one indented conical end. Moreover each half portion may comprise translucent polycarbonate material. Furthermore each half portion may be adapted to flush mount together to form a substantially cylindrical configuration when the teeth are interlocked. Additionally the sabot may further comprise a semi circular groove configured in the teeth of each half portion wherein the semi circular groove extends to the at least one indented conical end.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

As mentioned there remains a need for an improved sabot offering a low cost solution which can be easily utilized in practice. The embodiments herein achieve this by providing a two piece sabot which can be configured in a large quantity mass production easily and at a low cost. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

Additionally each sabot half has a conical indentation at a first end and has a flat surface on the second end . Because the sabot halves are semi cylindrically configured the flat surface assumes a semi circular shape. The conical indentation is separated from the teeth a by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half . Similarly the conical indentation is separated from the teeth by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half . Likewise the flat surface is separated from the teeth by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half and the flat surface is separated from the teeth by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half . A groove may be configured from the conical end and extending through the teeth of the sabot halves as shown in E G and I such that the groove creates a bifurcated top portion . This groove may be formed by drilling and is configured to accommodate a bullet not shown .

Furthermore each sabot half provides a conical indentation at both the first ends and second ends respectively. The conical indentation is separated from the teeth by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half . Similarly the conical indentation is separated from the teeth by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half . Likewise the conical indentation is separated from the teeth by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half and the conical indentation is separated from the teeth by a top portion that is substantially flat to flush mate with the corresponding top portion of sabot half . A groove may be configured from the conical end and extending through the teeth of the sabot halves as shown in E G and I such that the groove creates a bifurcated top portion . This groove may be formed by drilling and is configured to accommodate a bullet not shown .

The sabot may comprise rigid polycarbonate material and preferably the polycarbonate is translucent so that longitudinal drilling of the groove can be observed through the assembled sabot as best shown by the dashed lines in respectively . Polycarbonate material is preferred because it is softer than barrel metal so that it does not cause barrel wear. However other materials may be used for the sabot that have substantially equivalent material properties. Furthermore the sabot may have a length between 20 30 mm.

Preferably the diameter of the projectile i.e. bullet is less than the diameter of the sabot . In flight according to the first embodiment the conical indentation leads and the flat surface follows. Moreover in flight according to the second embodiment the conical indentation leads and the conical indentation follows. After leaving the barrel not shown the conical indentation catches the air and the sabot splits into the two component pieces sabot halves in the first embodiment and sabot halves in the second embodiment that fall away from the projectile not shown . Preferably the conical indentations are inwardly configured into the sabot halves respectively such that the maximum diameter of an assembled sabot is defined by the curved surfaces to create a substantially cylindrical body when the sabot is assembled. The two component pieces sabot halves in the first embodiment and sabot halves in the second embodiment of the sabot do not continue on the trajectory with the projectile and do not impact the target. As a result the sabot does not strike the target or otherwise interfere with the trajectory or impact of the projectile.

The embodiments herein provide a novel sabot compared with conventional sabots. The interlocking teeth hold the two part sabot together locking the sabot inside a gun barrel not shown . Comparatively when conventional smooth sabots i.e. sabots with smooth surfaces and without means for holding the sabot pieces together such as interlocking teeth are used they tend to slide back and forth in the gun barrel which makes it difficult to line up the projectile and create significant and unwanted pitch and yaw of the projectile. Accordingly the sabot provided by the embodiments herein eliminates this problem.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

