---

title: Methods of fabricating vertical JFET limited silicon carbide metal-oxide semiconductor field effect transistors
abstract: Silicon carbide metal-oxide semiconductor field effect transistors (MOSFETs) may include an n-type silicon carbide drift layer, a first p-type silicon carbide region adjacent the drift layer and having a first n-type silicon carbide region therein, an oxide layer on the drift layer, and an n-type silicon carbide limiting region disposed between the drift layer and a portion of the first p-type region. The limiting region may have a carrier concentration that is greater than the carrier concentration of the drift layer. Methods of fabricating silicon carbide MOSFET devices are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07923320&OS=07923320&RS=07923320
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07923320
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070221
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 698 170 Filed Oct. 30 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 221 010 entitled VERTICAL JFET LIMITED SILICON CARBIDE POWER METAL OXIDE SEMICONDUCTOR FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTORS which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 435 212 filed Dec. 20 2002 entitled VERTICAL JFET LIMITED SILICON CARBIDE POWER METAL OXIDE SEMICONDUCTOR FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING VERTICAL JFET LIMITED SILICON CARBIDE POWER METAL OXIDE SEMICONDUCTOR FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTORS the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties as if set forth fully herein.

The present invention was made at least in part with support from the United States Office of Naval Research contract number N00014 02 C 0302. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to semiconductor devices and the fabrication of semiconductor devices and more particularly to silicon carbide SiC metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs and the fabrication of such MOSFETs.

To make a high current high voltage low on resistance vertical SiC power MOSFET has so far been impractical at least in part due to the poor surface mobility of electrons in the inversion layer. Recently some processing techniques have been developed on a lateral MOSFET structure which result in an improved surface electron mobility. However a power MOSFET structure may involve additional processing including for example anneals at temperatures of greater than 1500 C. for the activation of p type dopants for example p well p contact p Junction Termination Extension JTE implants. Such anneals may have detrimental impact on the performance of power MOSFETs fabricated using such techniques.

A number of silicon carbide power MOSFET structures have been described in the literature. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 421 A. K. Agarwal J. B. Casady L. B. Rowland W. F. Valek M. H. White and C. D. Brandt 1.1 kV 4H SiC Power UMOSFET s IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 18 No. 12 pp. 586 588 December 1997 A. K. Agarwal J. B. Casady L. B. Rowland W. F. Valek and C. D. Brandt 1400 V 4H SiC Power MOSFETs Materials Science Forum Vols. 264 268 pp. 989 992 1998 J. Tan J. A. Cooper Jr. and M. R. Melloch High Voltage Accumulation Layer UMOSFETs in 4H SiC IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 19 No. 12 pp. 487 489 December 1998 J. N. Shenoy J. A. Cooper and M. R. Melloch High Voltage Double Implanted Power MOSFET s in 6H SiC IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 18 No. 3 pp. 93 95 March 1997 J. B. Casady A. K. Agarwal L. B. Rowland W. F. Valek and C. D. Brandt 900 V DMOS and 1100 V UMOS 4H SiC Power FETs IEEE Device Research Conference Ft. Collins Colo. Jun. 23 25 1997 R. Sch rner P Friedrichs D. Peters H. Mitlehner B. Weis and D. Stephani Rugged Power MOSFETs in 6H SiC with Blocking Capability up to 1800 V Materials Science Forum Vols. 338 342 pp. 1295 1298 2000 V. R. Vathulya and M. H. White Characterization of Channel Mobility on Implanted SiC to determine Polytype suitability for the Power DIMOS structure Electronic Materials Conference Santa Barbara Calif. Jun. 30 Jul. 2 1999 A. V. Suvorov L. A. Lipkin G. M. Johnson R. Singh and J. W. Palmour 4H SiC Self Aligned Implant Diffused Structure for Power DMOSFETs Materials Science Forum Vols. 338 342 pp. 1275 1278 2000 P. M. Shenoy and B. J. Baliga The Planar 6H SiC ACCUFET A New High Voltage Power MOSFET Structure IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 18 No. 12 pp. 589 591 December 1997 Ranbir Singh Sei Hyung Ryu and John W. Palmour High Temperature High Current 4H SiC Accu DMOSFET Materials Science Forum Vols. 338 342 pp. 1271 1274 2000 Y. Wang C. Weitzel and M. Bhatnagar Accumulation Mode SiC Power MOSFET Design Issues Materials Science Forum Vols. 338 342 pp. 1287 1290 2000 and A. K. Agarwal N. S. Saks S. S. Mani V. S. Hegde and P. A. Sanger Investigation of Lateral RESURF 6H SiC MOSFETs Materials Science Forum Vols. 338 342 pp. 1307 1310 2000.

The existing SiC structures can generally be divided into three categories 1 Trench or UMOSFET 2 Vertical Doubly Implanted MOSFET DIMOSFET and 3 Lateral Diffused MOSFET LDMOSFET . Of these structures the vertical DIMOSFET structure illustrated in is a variation of the diffused DMOSFET structure employed in silicon technology. Typically the p wells are implanted with Al or Boron the source regions n are implanted with nitrogen or phosphorus and the p regions are usually implanted with Al. The implants are activated at temperatures between 1400 C. 1700 C. The contacts to n layers are made with nickel Ni and annealed and the contacts to p are made by Ni Ti or Ti Al. Both contacts are annealed at high temperatures. The gate dielectric is typically either thermally grown Thermal SiO or deposited using Low Pressure Chemical Vapor Deposition LPCVD technique and subsequently annealed in various ambients. The deposited dielectric may for example be SiOor an Oxide Nitride Oxide ONO stack.

The interface states near the conduction band edge tend to trap the otherwise free electrons from the inversion layer leaving a relatively small number of free electrons in the inversion layer. Also the trapped electrons may create negatively charged states at the interface which coulomb scatter the free electrons. The reduced number of free electrons and the increased scattering may reduce the conduction of current from source to drain which may result in low effective mobility of electrons and a high on resistance. Several factors have been attributed to the high density of states near the conduction band edge 1 carbon or silicon dangling bonds 2 carbon clusters and 3 Si Si bonds creating a thin amorphous silicon layer at the interface. See S. T. Pantelides Atomic Scale Engineering of SiC Dielectric Interfaces DARPA MTO High Power and ONR Power Switching MURI Reviews Rosslyn Va. Aug. 10 12 1999 and V. V. Afanas ev M. Bassler G. Pensl and M. Schulz Intrinsic SiC SiOInterface States Phys. Stat. Sol. a Vol. 162 pp. 321 337 1997.

In addition to the high density of interface states several other mechanisms have also been attributed to the poor mobility of inversion layer electrons 1 Al segregating out of the Al doped p type SiC and 2 Surface roughness created by the high temperature activation of implanted impurities. See S. Sridevan P. K. McLarty and B. J. Baliga On the Presence of Aluminum in Thermally Grown Oxides on 6H Silicon Carbide IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 17 No. 3 pp. 136 138 March 1996 and M. A. Capano S. Ryu J. A. Cooper Jr. M. R. Melloch K. Rottner S. Karlsson N. Nordell A. Powell and D. E. Walker Jr. Surface Roughening in Ion Implanted 4H Silicon Carbide Journal of Electronic Materials Vol. 28 No. 3 pp. 214 218 March . Researchers from Purdue University have concluded that a direct correlation exists between the inversion layer electron mobility and the implant activation temperature. Such research has concluded that lower implant activation temperature 1200 C. leads to higher electron mobility and higher activation temperature 1400 C. results in poor electron mobility. See M. K. Das J. A. Cooper Jr. M. R. Melloch and M. A. Capano Inversion Channel Mobility in 4H and 6H SiC MOSFETs IEEE Semiconductor Interface Specialists Conference San Diego Calif. Dec. 3 5 1998. These results have been obtained on planar MOSFETs which do not utilize an implantation of the p well. The p well implanted impurity Al or Boron typically requires at least a 1500 C. activation temperature.

A further difficulty with DIMOSFETS may be associated with the JFET region of the device. As seen in a depletion region may be formed in the n drift region around the p well. This depletion region may effectively make the channel length longer than the p well junction depth as current flow is provided around the depletion region. It has been suggested that a spacer implant be introduced between the p well regions to alleviate this problem. See Vathulya et al A Novel 6H SiC DMOSFET With Implanted P Well Spacer IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 20 No. 7 p. 354 July 1999. This spacer implant does not extend past the p well regions and does not significantly reduce the JFET resistance if the depletion region formed at the p well and the n drift region interface extends deep into the n drift region.

Embodiments of the present invention provide silicon carbide metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs and methods of fabricating silicon carbide MOSFETs having an n type silicon carbide drift layer a first p type silicon carbide region adjacent the drift layer and having a first n type silicon carbide region therein and an oxide layer on the drift layer. The MOSFETs also have an n type silicon carbide limiting region disposed between the n type silicon carbide drift layer and a portion of the first p type silicon carbide region. In some embodiments the n type limiting region has a carrier concentration that is greater than the carrier concentration of the n type silicon carbide drift layer.

In further embodiments of the present invention the n type silicon carbide limiting region is provided between the drift layer and a floor of the first p type silicon carbide region. In still further embodiments the n type limiting region is also provided adjacent a sidewall of the first p type silicon carbide region. In some embodiments of the present invention a portion of the limiting region adjacent the floor of the first p type region has a higher carrier concentration than a portion of the limiting region adjacent the sidewall of the first p type region.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the first p type silicon carbide region is implanted with aluminum.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide a gate contact on the oxide layer a source contact on the first n type silicon carbide layer and a drain contact on the drift layer opposite the oxide layer. In particular embodiments of the present invention the gate contact is polysilicon either p type or n type . In other embodiments the gate contact is metal. In some embodiments an n type silicon carbide substrate is provided between the drift layer and the drain contact.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the n type limiting region is provided by an epitaxial layer of silicon carbide on the n type silicon carbide drift layer. In such embodiments the first p type region is provided in but not through the epitaxial layer of silicon carbide.

In further embodiments the n type limiting region is provided by an implanted n type region in the drift layer. In some embodiments the n type limiting region has a thickness of from about 0.5 m to about 1.5 m. In certain embodiments the n type limiting region has a carrier concentration of from about 1 10to about 5 10cm.

In still further embodiments of the present invention an n type epitaxial layer is provided on the first p type region and a portion of the first n type region. The epitaxial layer is provided between the first n type silicon carbide region and the first p type silicon carbide region and the oxide layer.

In some embodiments a second p type silicon carbide region is provided within the first p type silicon carbide region and adjacent the first n type silicon carbide region.

In additional embodiments of the present invention a silicon carbide device is provided having a drift layer of n type silicon carbide and first regions of p type silicon carbide. The first regions of p type silicon carbide are spaced apart and have peripheral edges that define a first region of n type silicon carbide therebetween. Second regions of n type silicon carbide having a carrier concentration greater than a carrier concentration of the drift layer are provided in the first regions of p type silicon carbide and are spaced apart from the peripheral edges of the first regions of p type silicon carbide. An oxide layer is provided on the drift layer the first region of n type silicon carbide and the second regions of n type silicon carbide. Third regions of n type silicon carbide having a carrier concentration greater than the carrier concentration of the drift layer are provided beneath the first regions of p type silicon carbide and between the first regions of p type silicon carbide and the drift layer. Source contacts are provided on portions of the second regions of n type silicon carbide. A gate contact is provided on the oxide layer and a drain contact is provided on the drift layer opposite the oxide layer.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the third regions of n type silicon carbide are also provided adjacent the peripheral edges of the first regions of p type silicon carbide that define the first region of n type silicon carbide. In certain embodiments of the present invention the first region of n type silicon carbide and the third regions of n type silicon carbide are provided by a first n type silicon carbide epitaxial layer on the drift layer and the first regions of p type silicon carbide are provided in the first n type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. In other embodiments of the present invention the third regions of n type silicon carbide are provided by implanted n type regions in the drift layer.

In some embodiments of the present invention the first region of n type silicon carbide is a region of the drift layer. In other embodiments the first region of n type silicon carbide may have a higher carrier concentration than the carrier concentration of the drift layer and may have a lower carrier concentration than the carrier concentration of the third regions of n type silicon carbide.

In still further embodiments of the present invention an epitaxial layer of silicon carbide is provided on the first p type regions and the first region of n type silicon carbide.

In other embodiments of the present invention an n type silicon carbide layer with a higher carrier concentration than the drift layer is provided between the drift layer and the drain contact. In such embodiments the n type silicon carbide layer may be an n type silicon carbide substrate.

In further embodiments second p type silicon carbide regions are provided within the first p type silicon carbide regions.

In some embodiments of the present invention the third regions of n type silicon carbide have a thickness of from about 0.5 m to about 1.5 m and a carrier concentration of from about 1 10to about 5 10cm.

In additional embodiments of the present invention a silicon carbide device is provided having an n type silicon carbide drift layer spaced apart p type silicon carbide well regions and an n type silicon carbide limiting region between the well regions and the drift layer. In particular embodiments the n type limiting region is provided between the spaced apart p type well regions. In some embodiments the n type limiting region has a higher carrier concentration than a carrier concentration of the drift layer. In further embodiments the n type limiting region is provided by an epitaxial layer of silicon carbide on the drift layer and the p type well regions are provided in but not through the epitaxial layer.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. As illustrated in the Figures the sizes of layers or regions are exaggerated for illustrative purposes and thus are provided to illustrate the general structures of the present invention. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on another element it can be directly on the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on another element there are no intervening elements present.

Embodiments of the present invention provide silicon carbide MOSFETs and or methods of fabricating silicon carbide MOSFETs which may reduce on state resistance of a device. While the inventors do not wish to be bound by any theory of operation it is believed that by reducing the depletion region beneath the p well of the MOSFET the length of the current path may be reduced and therefore the on state resistance of the device may be reduced over that of a similarly sized conventional MOSFET. Furthermore by reducing the depletion region in the JFET gap device areas may be reduced by reducing the size of the JFET gap.

MOSFETs according to embodiments of the present invention are illustrated in . As seen in in particular embodiments of the present invention a lightly doped n drift layer of silicon carbide is on an optional n layer of silicon carbide. The n drift layer may be a substrate or an epitaxial layer of silicon carbide and may for example be 4H polytype silicon carbide. In certain embodiments the n drift layer has a carrier concentration of from about 10to about 5 10cm. Furthermore in some embodiments of the present invention the drift layer has a thickness of from about 5 m to about 150 m. Furthermore the n layer may be an implanted layer or region an epitaxial layer or a substrate. In some embodiments the n layer has a carrier concentration of from about 10to about 10cm.

A region of higher carrier concentration n type silicon carbide is provided on the drift layer . The region has a higher carrier concentration than the carrier concentration of the drift layer and provides an embodiment of a JFET limiting region between a floor of the p wells and the drift layer . The region may be provided by epitaxial growth or by implantation. In certain embodiments of the present invention the region has thickness of from about 0.5 m to about 1.5 m. Also the region may have a carrier concentration of from about 10to about 5 10cm. The region may have a uniform carrier concentration or a non uniform carrier concentration.

As is further seen in spaced apart regions of p type silicon carbide provide p wells in the region . The p wells are implanted so as to extend into but not through the region such that a region of higher carrier concentration n type silicon carbide is provided between a floor of the p wells and the drift layer . In particular embodiments the portion of the region in the gap between the p wells has a higher carrier concentration than the drift layer . In other embodiments of the present invention the portion of the region in the gap between the p wells has the same carrier concentration as the drift layer . Thus the portion of the region adjacent the sidewalls of the p wells may have the same or higher carrier concentration than the drift layer while the portion of the region adjacent the floor of the p wells has a higher carrier concentration than the drift layer . In particular embodiments the p wells have a carrier concentration of from about 10to about 10cm. Furthermore the p wells may provide a junction depth of from about 0.3 m to about 1.2 m.

An example of embodiments of the present invention where the gap and the area beneath the p wells have different carrier concentrations is illustrated in . As seen in regions are provided beneath the floor of the p wells and between the p wells and the drift layer to provide the JFET limiting regions. However the drift layer is provided in the gap between the p wells . The regions may be provided for example by implanting n type regions in the drift layer using a mask and implanting the p wells so that the depth of the p wells in the drift layer is less than the greatest depth of the regions in the drift layer . Similarly an n well could be formed in the drift layer and the p wells formed in the n well.

In some embodiments the p wells are implanted with Al and annealed at a temperature of at least about 1500 C. However other suitable p type dopant may be utilized in providing the p wells . The doping profile of the p wells may be a substantially uniform profile a retrograde profile increasing doping with depth or the p wells may be totally buried with some n type silicon carbide above the p wells . In some embodiments the p wells may have carrier concentrations of from about 1 10to about 1 10cmand may extend into the region or the n drift layer from about 0.3 m to about 1.2 m. While various p type dopants may be utilized Al is utilized in some embodiments because Boron tends to diffuse over several microns when annealed at temperatures exceeding 1500 C. Therefore it may be difficult to control the precise gap between the p wells the region which may be referred to as the JFET region and or the depth of the p wells . If this gap is too high the field in the gate oxide can become too high when the device is in the blocking state. However if the gap is too narrow the resistance of the JFET region may become very high. Accordingly gaps of from about 1 m to about 10 m are preferred. The particular gap utilized for a given device may depend upon the desired blocking voltage and on state resistance of the device.

Regions of n silicon carbide and optionally regions of p silicon carbide are disposed within the p wells . In some embodiments the regions of n silicon carbide are spaced from about 0.5 m to about 5 m from the edge of the p wells adjacent the JFET region . The regions of n silicon carbide may have a doping concentration of from about 5 10cmto about 10cmand may extend to a depth of from about 0.1 m to about 0.8 m into the p wells but are shallower than the depth of the p wells . Suitable n type dopants include phosphorous and nitrogen or other n type dopants known to those of skill in the art. The optional regions of p silicon carbide may be adjacent the regions of n silicon carbide and opposite the edge of the p wells . The regions of p silicon carbide may have a doping concentration of from about 5 10cmto about 10cmand may extend to a depth of from about 0.2 m to about 1.2 m into the p wells but are shallower than the depth of the p wells .

The gate oxide extends at least between the n regions of silicon carbide and has a gate contact thereon. In some embodiments the gate oxide may be either a thermally grown oxide with an NO or NO anneal or Oxide Nitride Oxide ONO where the first oxide is a thermal oxide followed by an NO or NO anneal. The gate contact material may be any suitable contact material. In some embodiments the gate contact material is molybdenum or p type polysilicon. P type polysilicon may be suitable in some embodiments because of its high work function. The thickness of the gate oxide may depend on the work function of the material of the gate contact . However in general thicknesses of from about 100 to about 5000 are preferred.

One or more source contacts and a drain contact are also provided. Source contacts in some embodiments are formed of nickel Ni titanium Ti platinum Pt or aluminum Al combinations thereof and or other suitable contact materials and may be annealed at temperatures of from about 600 C. to about 1000 C. for example 825 C. so as to provide an ohmic contact to both the p regions and the n regions . The drain contact may be Ni or Ti or other such suitable material for forming an ohmic contact to n type silicon carbide.

Differing or the same contact materials may be utilized to contact the p regions and the n regions . Furthermore while not illustrated in the Figures one or more metal overlayers may be provided on one or more of the contacts. Techniques and materials for providing metal overlayers are known to those of skill in the art and therefore are not discussed further herein.

As is further seen in because of the regrown silicon carbide layer a contact window is provided through the silicon carbide layer to provide a contact to the optional p regions or to the p wells if the p regions are not present. The contact may be made of any suitable material for forming an ohmic contact as described above.

While B and illustrate embodiments of the present invention as discrete devices as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art B and may be considered unit cells of devices having multiple cells. Thus for example additional unit cells may be incorporated into the devices illustrated in B and by dividing the device along its central axis illustrated as the vertical axis in B and and rotating the divided device about an axis of the periphery of the devices illustrated in B and the vertical edges of the devices illustrated in B and . Accordingly embodiments of the present invention include devices such as those illustrated in B and as well as devices having a plurality of unit cells incorporating the JFET limiting regions illustrated in B and .

Fabrication of devices according to embodiments of the present invention having a JFET limiting region provided by an epitaxial layer will now be described with reference to and A through D. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure embodiments of the present invention having a JFET limiting region provided by implantation may be provided by modifying the operations described herein to provide such implanted regions as described above.

As seen in an n type silicon carbide epitaxial layer is formed on the drift layer . The n type epitaxial layer may be formed to the thickness and doping levels described above. As seen in a mask is formed and patterned on the n type epitaxial layer and impurities are implanted into the n type epitaxial layer to provide the p wells . The implanted impurities may be implanted to the depths described above and to provide the desired carrier concentrations when activated. Alternatively the drift layer may be provided on an n silicon carbide substrate. In such embodiments the n layer described below may be provided by the substrate.

As is seen in the mask is removed and a mask is formed and patterned and n type impurities are implanted utilizing the mask to provide the n regions . The mask is formed to provide the desired spacing between the periphery of the p wells and the n regions that defines the channel length of the shorting channels . Suitable n type impurities include nitrogen and phosphorous. Furthermore the impurities may be implanted to provide the dimensions and carrier concentrations of the n regions described herein.

Additionally an NO grown oxide may also be utilized as described in J. P. Xu P. T. Lai C. L. Chan B. Li and Y. C. Cheng Improved Performance and Reliability of NO Grown Oxynitride on 6H SiC IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 21 No. 6 pp. 298 300 June 2000. Techniques as described in L. A. Lipkin and J. W. Palmour Low interface state density oxides on p type SiC Materials Science Forum Vols. 264 268 pp. 853 856 1998 may also be utilized. Alternatively for thermally grown oxides a subsequent NO anneal of the thermally grown SiOlayer may be provided to reduce the interface trap density as is described in M. K. Das L. A. Lipkin J. W. Palmour G. Y. Chung J. R. Williams K. McDonald and L. C. Feldman High Mobility 4H SiC Inversion Mode MOSFETs Using Thermally Grown NO Annealed SiO IEEE Device Research Conference Denver Colo. Jun. 19 21 2000 G. Y. Chung C. C. Tin J. R. Williams K. McDonald R. A. Weller S. T. Pantelides L. C. Feldman M. K. Das and J. W. Palmour Improved Inversion Channel Mobility for 4H SiC MOSFETs Following High Temperature Anneals in Nitric Oxide IEEE Electron Device Letters accepted for publication and G. Y. Chung C. C. Tin J. R. Williams K. McDonald M. Di Ventra S. T. Pantelides L. C. Feldman and R. A. Weller Effect of nitric oxide annealing on the interface trap densities near the band edges in the 4H polytype of silicon carbide Applied Physics Letters Vol. 76 No. 13 pp. 1713 1715 March 2000. Oxynitrides may be provided as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 878 442 entitled High Voltage High Temperature Capacitor Structures and Methods of Fabrication filed Jun. 11 2001 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

In addition to the embodiments described herein embodiments of the JFET limiting regions may also be provided in DMOSFETs as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 911 995 filed Jul. 24 2001 and entitled Silicon Carbide Power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors Having a Shorting Channel and Methods of Fabricating Silicon Carbide Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors Having a Shorting Channel the disclosure of which is incorporated herein as if set forth fully.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to particular sequences of operations as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art certain operations within the sequence may be reordered while still benefiting from the teachings of the present invention. For example in particular embodiments of the present invention the formation of the n regions and the p regions may be reversed. Accordingly the present invention should not be construed as limited to the exact sequence of operations described herein.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

