---

title: Vehicle arresting blocks, beds and methods
abstract: A block of compressible material, such as cellular concrete, provides compressive failure characteristics suitable for arresting travel of an aircraft (or other vehicle) overrunning a runway (or other surface). Relatively thin frangible material positioned above the block provides a stronger, more damage resistant surface, while still readily fracturing in an arresting incident. Intermediate material, such as a foam layer, positioned under the frangible material may be included to provide a protective cushioning effect by mitigating transmission of external phenomena forces to the block. A fastening configuration at least partially enclosing other portions of the arresting unit provides a stable unified composite, without destroying desired compressive failure characteristics of the unit. Arresting units may also include a bottom layer of material stronger than the block of compressible material and a sealant coating with water resistant properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07597502&OS=07597502&RS=07597502
owner: Engineered Arresting Systems Corporation
number: 07597502
owner_city: Aston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070709
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 253 333 filed on Oct. 19 2005 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 261 490 which is a continuation application of prior application Ser. No. 10 755 163 filed Jan. 9 2004 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 971 817 which is a divisional application of prior application Ser. No. 09 951 080 filed Sep. 13 2001 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 685 387 .

This invention relates to arresting the forward motion of vehicles such as aircraft overrunning a runway and more particularly to arresting embodiments with improved resistance to jet blast and other potentially destructive forces.

The problem of aircraft overrunning the ends of runways with the possibility of passenger injury and aircraft damage is discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 885 025 VEHICLE ARRESTING BED SYSTEMS which may be referred to as the 025 patent . That patent together with U.S. Pat. No. 5 902 068 VEHICLE ARRESTING UNIT FABRICATION METHOD the 068 patent and U.S. Pat. No. 5 789 681 ARRESTING MATERIAL TEST APPARATUS AND METHODS the 681 patent describe arresting beds units and fabrication methods and testing based on application of cellular concrete for arresting purposes. The disclosures of the 025 068 and 681 patents are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

By way of example B and C provide top side and end views of a vehicle arresting bed constructed of cellular concrete blocks for installation at the end of an airport runway. As more fully described in the 025 patent an overrunning aircraft enters the bed via a sloped ramp and encounters an array of cellular concrete blocks of increasing height and compressive gradient strength. Such compressive gradient strengths and the bed geometry are predetermined to enable forward travel to be arrested while minimizing the potential for passenger injury and aircraft damage. In these figures vertical dimensions and individual block size are expanded for clarity. An actual arresting bed may have dimensions of the order of 150 feet in width with a maximum height or thickness of 30 inches and include thousands of blocks of four foot by four foot or four foot by eight foot horizontal dimensions.

Arresting beds constructed pursuant to the above patents with installations at major airports have been shown to be effective in safely stopping aircraft under actual emergency overrun conditions. For example the arresting of an overrunning airliner at JFK International Airport by an arresting bed fabricated by the assignee of the present invention was reported in the New York Times of May 13 1999. However in some applications depending in part upon particular airport layout the proximity of jet blast or other physical forces may give rise to deteriorating or destructive effects which could limit the useful life of an arresting bed. Material such as cellular concrete when used in an arresting bed must have limited strength to permit compressive failure of the concrete without destruction of the landing gear of an aircraft for example. Thus the requirement to limit the strength of compressible material used for arresting purposes in turn may make the material susceptible to damage or destruction by sonic pressure vibrational lift projected gravel and other characteristics and effects of jet blast from nearby aircraft as well as from other sources such as objects people or vehicles making contact with an arresting bed other than during actual arresting incidents. As to jet blast phenomena in particular measured conditions at an end of runway arresting bed installation site have included wind velocities to 176 MPH and 150 dB or higher sonic levels.

Accordingly objects of the present invention are to provide new and improved arresting blocks and beds and methods relating thereto which may have one or more of the following characteristics and capabilities 

In accordance with the invention a vehicle arresting unit may include a block of compressible material frangible material positioned above the block intermediate material positioned between the frangible material and the block to reduce transmission of effects of external phenomena e.g. jet blast phenomena and a fastening configuration to retain elements in position.

In particular applications the block may be cellular concrete to inches thick the top sheet may be cement board about one quarter inch thick the intermediate material may be polyethylene foam about one quarter inch thick and the wrapping may be polyester net. Such a vehicle arresting unit may also include a bottom sheet of cement board and an overlying sealant material having a water resistant characteristic.

Also in accordance with the invention a method of fabricating a vehicle arresting unit may include some or all of the following steps 

 c positioning intermediate material having a force transmission mitigation characteristic between the top surface and the frangible material and

In particular applications step d above may comprise at least partially enclosing the block top sheet and intermediate material by a fastening configuration such as a wrapping and additional steps of adding a bottom protective sheet and applying sealant material to the unit may be included.

For a better understanding of the invention together with other and further objects reference is made to the accompanying drawings and the scope of the invention will be pointed out in the accompanying claims.

As shown vehicle arresting unit includes a block of compressible material having top bottom and side surfaces and a top to bottom thickness. Block may be cellular concrete fabricated in accordance with the 068 patent or otherwise or may be formed of phenolic foam ceramic foam or other suitable material. As described in the 025 patent for aircraft arresting applications suitable arresting material characteristics are selected to enable aircraft travel to be arrested within a desired distance without causing passenger injury or aircraft damage such as landing gear failure. For example cellular concrete fabricated so as to provide a compressive gradient strength ranging between 60 to 80 psi pounds per square inch over a 66 to 80 percent penetration range has been found suitable for use in an arresting bed. Fabrication and testing of cellular concrete for such applications is described in the 068 and 681 patents.

Arresting unit has a top sheet of frangible material positioned above the top surface of unit and nominally coextensive therewith. As will be further discussed in installations in which an arresting bed is positioned in relatively close proximity to operating aircraft jet blast phenomena and other external forces may have deleterious effects on compressible materials of strength suitable for arresting bed applications. Pursuant to the invention top sheet in combination with other elements of arresting unit provides increased resistance to such effects.

In a currently preferred embodiment top sheet may comprise a section of cement board of thickness of one half inch or less. The thickness may for example fall within a nominal range of one quarter to five sixteenths inch. For present purposes the term cement board is used to refer to a commercially available product such as provided in sheet form under the trademarks Durock of USG Corp. and Wonderboard of Custom Building Products Corp. . Also for present purposes the term nominal or nominally is used to identify a value or dimension within plus or minus fifteen percent of a stated reference value dimension or range. The word frangible is used in its ordinary dictionary sense of being breakable or shatterable without necessarily implying weakness or delicacy.

Arresting unit in the illustrated embodiment has intermediate material positioned between top sheet and the top surface of block . Intermediate material may be a sheet or layer of foam material such as closed cell polyethylene foam or other material selected for placement between top sheet and the top surface of block . Intermediate material may typically be pliable and may have compressible or resilient properties or both and is preferably equally breakable in both main dimensions. To reduce transmission of effects of external phenomena in the context of the combination of components comprising arresting unit intermediate material may be selected to provide a force transmission mitigation characteristic. Suitable material and thickness can be specified in particular applications in view of the nature and severity of applicable phenomena. For present purposes the term mitigation characteristic is used consistent with the ordinary dictionary sense of mitigate of causing to become less harsh hostile or severe and may include one or more of spreading dispersing diluting deflecting dissipating attenuating cushioning or generally lessening destructive effects on a surface or layer below material having a force transmission mitigation characteristic.

In a presently preferred embodiment employing a cellular concrete block and five sixteenths inch thick cement board top sheet one quarter inch thick closed cell polyethylene foam material is included for aircraft arresting bed applications. Such a foam sheet is thus considered to provide an adequate force mitigation characteristic suitable for a typical application. In other embodiments subject to different levels of external phenomena e.g. higher or lower levels of jet blast phenomena the intermediate material may comprise other suitable material and may be thicker thinner or may be omitted. Thus in some applications the top sheet may provide an adequate level of isolation of the block from the external phenomena levels actually present without inclusion of intermediate material .

Arresting unit of includes a wrapping at least partially enclosing block top sheet and intermediate material . Wrapping may be a fabric e.g. a section of polyester net or other woven or non woven material a film e.g. a perforated or solid breathable or other plastic film or shrink wrap material strapping or other suitable wrapping. While wrapping is illustrated as being opaque it may typically be basically transparent. As will be described arresting unit may also include a bottom layer and wrapping may partially or completely enclose all of elements and of unit . Wrapping may bear or have applied to it an adhesive or adherent suitable to at least partially bond or hold wrapping to some or all of the other components of unit . A suitable adhesive material may also be applied between the lower surface of wrapping and a runway surface.

A basic function of wrapping is to aid in maintaining structural integrity of unit during non emergency conditions while being subject to tearing breakage or other partial or complete disintegration during an arresting incident so as not to interfere with desired compressive failure of unit under arresting conditions. Consistent with this a function of wrapping is to facilitate adhesion of unit to a runway or other surface so as to both maintain integrity of the unit and its components and also resist uplift forces associated with jet blast which may tend to displace unit . If the lower portion of wrapping is adhered to a runway during installation its upper portions will thus aid in resisting lifting forces affecting unit .

As noted arresting unit may have a bottom layer positioned below the bottom surface of block and nominally coextensive therewith. Layer may comprise a sheet of cement board a layer of cellular concrete of greater strength than block or other suitable material. A basic function of layer is to permit arresting unit to be adhered to a runway extension or other surface to hold the unit in a desired position. As such layer is desirably harder or stronger than the material of block so that a greater surface to surface mounting or adherence capacity is provided without the potential for upper portions of block to break away from a lower portion of block if it were directly adhered to a surface of a runway extension. Thus layer is selected to provide an improved mounting or adherence capacity and when held to the block by wrapping to thereby provide an improved mounting or adherence capability for the complete unit . Block may be formed by pouring cellular concrete into a mold. For inclusion of layer it may be placed in the bottom of such mold first and the block cast on top of it. Alternatively layer may be placed beneath a block of compressive material previously fabricated.

Arresting unit may have a sealant material with a water resistant characteristic overlying part or all of wrapping . The sealant material of polyurethane or other suitable material may particularly be placed on the top of arresting unit to provide additional protection from external phenomena associated with jet blast and other forces as well as from effects of weather. Alternatively wrapping may itself provide a water resistant characteristic or incorporate or have applied to it before installation a suitable sealant material.

Relevant external phenomena comprise jet blast phenomena which may include sonic vibrational pressure lift erosive e.g. by airborne gravel and other characteristics and effects as well as compressive and other forces resulting from persons vehicles or objects making contact with an arresting bed other than during actual arresting incidents. Described components of the arresting unit may be selected to reduce or mitigate effects of such external phenomena on block e.g. provide a level of protection to block relative to external phenomena incident on top sheet and thereby provide a force transmission mitigation characteristic as described above to enhance arresting unit resistance to such phenomena. At the same time the components and the composite arresting unit itself must not be so strong or force resistant as to subvert the basic required parameters of unit compression failure with desired characteristics upon contact by the wheel of an aircraft overrunning a runway. Arresting units as described thus provide predetermined failure characteristics when arresting a vehicle while providing improved resistance to deleterious effects of external phenomena in the absence of overrunning aircraft.

At a block of compressible material having characteristics appropriate for a vehicle arresting application is provided. As noted the block may comprise cellular concrete having an appropriate compressive gradient strength as described in the 068 patent or other suitable material. For aircraft arresting bed applications the block may typically have dimensions of approximately four feet by four feet by six to 30 inches in thickness.

At intermediate material is positioned above the top surface of block . Intermediate material may comprise a layer of closed cell or other foam or other material providing a desired force transmission mitigation characteristic with respect to external phenomena. Such material may or may not have energy absorption properties depending upon the particular material selected and may have a thickness up to one half inch or more. In a currently preferred embodiment intermediate material is provided in the form of a sheet of polyethylene foam of approximately one quarter inch thickness. In some embodiments intermediate material may be omitted e.g. in view of the expected severity of external phenomena .

At a top sheet of frangible material is positioned above intermediate material . As discussed top sheet may comprise a section of cement board or other suitable material. Typically if commercially available cement board is used for top sheet it may have a thickness of up to about one half inch with a five sixteenths inch thickness used in a currently preferred embodiment.

At a bottom layer is positioned below the bottom surface of block . As discussed bottom layer may comprise a section of cement board a layer of cellular concrete of greater strength than block or other suitable material. Bottom layer is thus typically harder or stronger or both than the material of block to provide added strength and stability in bonding or adhering the arresting unit to the surface of a runway extension and in preventing the net or strapping used for wrapping from being pulled upward into the block material during an arresting incident. In some applications bottom layer may be omitted in view of overall arresting unit operational requirements.

At top sheet and intermediate material are secured to block . As discussed this may be accomplished by a wrapping which at least partially encloses other components of the arresting unit . In a currently preferred embodiment wrapping comprises a section of polyester net constructed of 80 to 90 pound breaking strength strands with net openings less than one quarter inch square. In other embodiments fabric plastic film perforated shrink wrap strapping or other suitable materials selected to provide adequate strength with appropriate failure characteristics during an arresting incident may be employed.

At a sealant may be applied to the top of arresting unit and to other surfaces as selected to provide a water resistant characteristic. In a currently preferred embodiment polyurethane with an epoxy undercoat is used for this purpose however other suitable materials may be employed and may provide both water resistance and some degree of additional resistance to external phenomena such as ultraviolet radiation.

With an understanding of the invention it will be apparent that steps of the above method may be modified varied as to order omitted and supplemented by additional or different steps. Skilled persons will be enabled to select suitable materials and configurations as appropriate for particular applications and operating conditions. As noted it may be desirable to glue or adhere the wrapping to the other components of the arresting unit. Also in particular applications certain components may be omitted varied or supplemented consistent with the invention.

While there have been described the currently preferred embodiments of the invention those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further modifications may be made without departing from the invention and it is intended to claim all modifications and variations as fall within the scope of the invention.

