---

title: Predictive QoS resource allocation for rapid session establishment
abstract: Systems and methods for predictive QoS resource allocation in a wireless communication system are disclosed. An access network can detect a communication directed to an access terminal requiring QoS resources, send a page to an access terminal and allocate the QoS resources prior to receipt of the connection request from the access terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253092&OS=09253092&RS=09253092
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09253092
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
The present application claims priority to PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2007 079999 filed Sep. 28 2007 which claims priority to provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 827 425 entitled PREDICTIVE QOS RESOURCE ALLOCATION FOR RAPID SESSION ESTABLISHMENT filed Sep. 28 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to session establishment for applications that have quality of service QoS requirements.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

As mobile communications have increased Quality of Service QoS has become important to provide differentiation of traffic and increased service level capability. However there are many different standards to describe Quality of Service requirements on different parts of the networks. For instance a 1xEV DO Rev. A network is configured for QoS as described in 3GPP2 X.S0011 004 C Version 2.0 cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard Quality of Service and Header Reduction Specification. However the same network describes configurations of QoS for data transmitted over the air interface between any AT and the AN in the 3GPP2 C.S0024 A Version 2.0 cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification. The same network also differentiates intra AT and inter AT QoS since Intra AT QoS provides differentiation of data streams belonging to the same user while inter AT QoS provides differentiation of packets belonging to different users. Therefore there is a need for an end to end QoS between the AT and AN for PTT communications.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for predictive QoS resource allocation in a wireless communication system.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a method for predictively allocating QoS resources comprising detecting a communication request requiring QoS resources directed to an access terminal and allocating the QoS resources prior to receiving a request from the access terminal to allocate the QoS resources.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus comprising logic configured to detect a communication request requiring QoS resources directed to an access terminal and logic configured to allocate the QoS resources prior to receiving a request from the access terminal to allocate the QoS resources.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a wireless communication system configured to predictively allocate QoS resources the wireless communication system comprising means for detecting a communication request requiring QoS resources directed to an access terminal and means for allocating the QoS resources prior to receiving a request from the access terminal to allocate the QoS resources.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable medium including code stored thereon for predictively allocating QoS resources comprising code for causing a computer to detect a communication request requiring QoS resources directed to an access terminal and code for causing a computer to allocate the QoS resources prior to receiving a request from the access terminal to allocate the QoS resources.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal comprising logic configured to receive a page from an access network logic configured to request a connection with the access network logic configured to determine if QoS resources are needed for a requested communication and logic configured to detect if an initial connection response from the access network has allocated the QoS resources.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a method for responding to predictively allocated QoS resources at an access terminal the method comprising receiving a page from an access network requesting a connection with the access network determining if QoS resources are needed for a requested communication and detecting if an initial connection response from the access network has allocated the QoS resources.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and MPC MSC . The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the foregoing QoS resources can be used for differentiation of traffic and increased service level capability. Data applications requiring QoS resources in order to provide service typically initiate such requests from the network. For example an access terminal will conventionally receive a page and then open a traffic channel to receive the information related to the page. Upon receiving the information that the communication will require certain QoS resources e.g. a push to talk PTT call group call the access terminal will then request these services from the RAN. Upon receiving confirmation that the QoS resources are allocated the application can then proceed with the communication. A detailed example will be discussed next for AT terminated e.g. forward link communications.

AT terminated communications to an AT in slotted mode of operation can be delivered using the standard paging approach as described in 3GPP2 C.SO024 A. illustrates details of this standard paging approach. assumes that the AT is in slotted mode and it does not have a traffic channel i.e. has closed its 1xEV DO Connection but it still has a PPP state maintained at the PDSN. When data for the AT arrives at the network it is routed via the A10 A11 interface from the PDSN to the PCF. Assuming a one to one association between the PCF and the BSC data arrives across the A8 A9 interface at the BSC where the AT is expected to be located. The BSC prepares a page message and flood pages the message to all BTS sectors in its authority. When the AT hears the page it responds by initiating a traffic channel setup request via a ConnectionRequest message. The remainder of the call flow is the signaling for traffic channel setup as defined by the 1xEV DO standard. After the physical channel is established and the RTCAck is sent the RAN sends the data to the AT over the traffic channel. However embodiments of the invention are not limited to this implementation as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art and it is merely provided as a detailed example to aid in the explanation of embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention provide methods and systems for the network to predictively allocate QoS resources when delivering network originated traffic to the access terminal data application. The predictive allocation of QoS services can reduce or eliminate the delay incurred in conventional systems by having the access terminal application request the service. Additional details regarding various aspects of embodiments of the invention follows using a PTT group communication system for illustrative purposes. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to these systems and may be used for any application using QoS resources.

Referring to a signal flow diagram illustrating aspects of embodiments of the invention is provided. An application server e.g. a QChat server can generate a request for communication with an access terminal requiring QoS resources. The application server can mark the request as requiring QoS resources which can then be detected by the RAN . The RAN can use this information to allocate the QoS resources prior to a request coming from the access terminal . The RAN can then send out a page typically over multiple sectors to the access terminal . The access terminal can then request a connection . Upon receipt of the connection request the RAN can determine what sector access terminal is in. The RAN can then allocate the QoS resources and establish a connection serving the access terminal . However if the RAN tracks the location of the access terminal with sufficient granularity to determine the sector the access terminal is located in the RAN can allocate the QoS resources even before the connection request . Upon receipt of the information regarding the requested communication the access terminal can recognize that QoS resources are needed for this communication and can check for the QoS resource allocation in the established connection. Since the QoS resources were already allocated at the RAN the access terminal can directly accept the request . This avoids the additional delay of the access terminal having to request the QoS resources after the initial information is received regarding the requested communication. Once the access terminal has accepted the requested communication e.g. PTT QChat call this can be forwarded to the application server e.g. QChat server and the communication can proceed.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus e.g. RAN BSC BTS including logic configured to detect a communication requiring QoS resources logic configured to page a targeted device e.g. access terminal and logic configured to allocate the QoS resources prior to establishing a connection with the targeted device.

As noted above embodiments of the invention can reduce process delays in delay sensitive applications. A group communication PTT QChat system is an example of a delay sensitive system that can take advantage of reduced connection times offered by the predictive QoS allocation disclosed herein. The group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a QChat system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Typically a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis.

The group may operate over an existing communication system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal such as access terminals ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each AT may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an AT is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key e.g. in on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example the request may be transmitted over the air to one from AT or more MPTs or base stations . A MPC MSC which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network. However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to the RAN .

Referring to one or more group communication e.g. QChat servers can monitor traffic of the group communication system through its connection to distributed network. Since the group communication server can be connected to the distributed network through a variety of wired and wireless interfaces geographic proximity to group participants is not necessary. Typically a group communication server controls communications between the wireless devices of set group members ATs in a PTT system. The wireless network illustrated is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. Further a series of group communication servers can be connected to a group communication server LAN .

The group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a MSC . The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and PSTN for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless ATs such as cellular telephones as is well known in the art. Accordingly the general details of a group communication system will not be further discussed. However the following description will discuss specific aspects of specific systems e.g. QChat 1xEV DO to provide additional details regarding embodiments of the invention.

In embodiments of the invention the server e.g. QChat server can set Differentiated Services Code Point DSCP values to identify data packets in the network for which QoS can be granted predictively. Further 1xEV DO Profile ID mappings to QoS reservations flows can be used to identify data streams at the network for which QoS can be granted predictively. The system can use DSCP to distinguish QChat traffic from all other data traffic on the network. The AT terminated QChat data may be marked with QChat DSCP values in the Type of Service TOS field or DS field of the IP datagram. These DSCP values identify IP network QoS requirements and different data delivery mechanisms for the AT terminated QChat packet traffic. The Differentiated Services framework can be used to provide service discrimination for IP packets without the need to maintain per flow state and signaling at each hop. Routers can examine the DSCP values on ingress IP packets and provide appropriate per hop behavior to each flow. Typically this information would not be modified by any network components between the application server and PDSN .

As discussed above the AT is paged to bring up its traffic channel in order to establish a communication e.g. a QChat call . The QChat call is accepted by the target AT if both traffic channel and QoS resources for QChat In Call Signaling and Media are available additional details regarding the QoS resources are provided below and in . Since the AT does not know at the time of the receipt of the page that it is being paged for a QChat call it cannot issue a QoS request for in call QChat flows when it sends its connection request message. In the conventional systems the AT would have to wait to receive QChat signaling packets in order to determine that it requires QoS resources for a QChat call. However to reduce this delay in accordance with embodiments of the invention the RAN performs predictive QoS allocation for a QChat call as discussed in the foregoing. Accordingly when a connection request is received from the QChat AT that is paged in response to QChat DSCP marked data the RAN e.g. BSC BTS determines that it needs to allocate QoS resources e.g. QChat In Call Signaling and Media without an explicit AT request. Further the RAN signals to the AT that the QoS resources are available.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the QoS resources needed may vary for different applications or within applications. The following examples describe QoS design under different QoS resource scenarios 

For AT terminated QChat calls where the target of the call is paged following the arrival of a QChat Call Setup packet the RAN can indicate that QoS resources for both In Call Signaling and Media reservations have been granted by transmitting the FwdReservationOn and RevReservationOn message for the QChat In Call Signaling and Media reservations during traffic channel setup.

For AT terminated QChat calls where the target of the call is paged following the arrival of a QChat Call Setup packet the RAN can schedule the FwdReservationOn and RevReservationOn message for the QChat In Call Signaling and Media reservations prior to the QChat Call Setup message if both traffic channel and QoS resources for QChat reservations are available.

If some of the In Call Signaling and Media reservations are already allocated to the target AT at the time of arrival of a QChat Call Setup packet the RAN may only activate the In Call Signaling and Media reservations that are not allocated at that moment using the FwdReservationOn and RevReservationOn messages.

For AT terminated QChat calls where the target of the call is paged following the arrival of a QChat Call Setup packet the RAN will establish a traffic channel if traffic channel resources are available independent of QoS resources being available for QChat In Call and Media reservations.

1xEV DO Revision A is designed to provide efficient access to packet data networks and is widely based on the Internet for its network architecture. Data traffic traversing Internet Protocol IP network elements at the PDSN PCF and RAN can be based on standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on QoS requirements. QoS between the AT and the 1xEV DO Revision A network is configured as described in the 3GPP2 X.S0011 004 C Version 2.0 cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard Quality of Service and Header Reduction specification the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Data traffic transmitted over the air interface between the AT and the RAN can be configured for appropriate QoS treatment via 1xEV DO Revision A protocols as described in the 3GPP2 C.S0024 A Version 2.0 cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. 1xEV DO Revision A provides standard mechanisms to offer intra AT and inter AT QoS. Intra AT QoS provides differentiation of data streams belonging to the same user while inter AT QoS provides differentiation of packets belonging to different users.

To achieve QoS traffic differentiation should be available end to end. All network components including the AT RAN BTS BSC PDSN and Internet routers should implement support QoS. End to end QoS in 1xEV DO Revision A network can be achieved through the following mechanisms 

QoS in a 1xEV DO Revision A network is also based on the proper mapping or binding of the following elements for the AT s PPP session such as follows 

As noted above different applications can have different QoS requirements. For example QChat over 1xEV DO Revision A receives high priority and low latency data delivery through the specification of network QoS requirements. QChat uses the allocation of three 3 IP flows at the AT 

Each QChat IP flow has specific QoS requirements and is mapped onto three separate RLP flows. QChat enabled ATs can have up to four active RLP flows when active in a QChat call three flows for QChat and one for the default Best Effort BE flow. QoS requirements for QChat media can be considered to be similar to VoIP media and therefore this RLP flow can be shared with VoIP. illustrates the multiple RLP flows for a QChat enabled AT in communication with access network . The QoS requirements for each flow can be specified via QoS profiles.

Although the foregoing description provides many details specific to QChat and the 1 EV DO network to provide a detailed illustration of various aspects of embodiments of the invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific application and or network. Embodiments of the invention can include any application that has QoS requirements. Further any network that can support the allocation of QoS resources can also be included in embodiments of the invention.

In view of the foregoing disclosure those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. Referring to a flowchart illustrating at least one method according to embodiments of the invention is provided. For example the method can include detecting a communication request directed to an access terminal requiring QoS resources . A page can be sent to the access terminal . The QoS resources can be allocated and the communication can be established having the QoS resources allocated before a specific request for QoS resource allocation is made from the access terminal. As illustrated in the QoS resources allocation may be performed after the connection request is received in the case where the RAN can not determine the sector serving the access terminal prior to receipt of the connection request. However as discussed above in relation to the QoS resource allocation can occur prior to the receipt of the connection request when the RAN can determine the sector serving the access terminal before receiving the connection request from the access terminal.

However if the resources are not available the method can still proceed to set up a communication with the access terminal . This will allow the access terminal to attempt to request the QoS resources. For example the access terminal receives the page and sends a connection request in a conventional manner. When the access terminal receives the initial communication it can determine if QoS resources are needed for the communication requested and if they are allocated . If the QoS resources were predictively allocated in then the communication request can be accepted . However if the QoS resources are needed for the requested communication and were not allocated e.g. then the access terminal can request the QoS resources from the RAN . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustrated flowchart and description intentionally does not detail every option or low level signaling so as not to distract from the features being discussed. For example the case where the RAN denies the connection request is not illustrated as it would result in no connection and is well known and would only distract from the description of embodiments of the invention.

A more detailed illustration of the signaling is provided in which illustrates specific aspects of at least one embodiment of the invention. illustrates an access terminated QChat call with predictive QoS allocation such as previously described. For example details on the signaling between the access network and AT during the traffic channel setup at the AT are included in this figure. These details are commented on in the figure and an additional restatement herein is not provided. Further these details while illustrating implementation details according to at least one embodiment of the invention should not be construed as limiting all embodiments of the invention to the aspects illustrated.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus including logic configured to detect a communication request requiring QoS resources directed to an access terminal and logic configured to allocate the QoS resources prior to receiving a request from the access terminal to allocate the QoS resources. The apparatus can further include logic configured to page the access terminal logic configured to receive a connection request from the access terminal and logic configured to establish a connection with the access terminal with the allocated QoS resources. The various logical elements can be integrated into one device or can be distributed over several devices each operably couple to one another. For example the apparatus can be a radio access network a group communication system or a wireless communication network.

Further aspects of embodiments of the invention can include logical implementations of the functions described herein. For example embodiments of the invention can further include logic configured to detect QoS resources currently allocated to the access terminal and logic configured to allocate additional QoS resources needed for the requested communication. Accordingly those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention are not limited to the examples provided herein.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable medium including code stored thereon for predictively allocating QoS resources comprising code for causing a computer to detect a communication request requiring QoS resources directed to an access terminal and code for causing a computer to allocate the QoS resources prior to receiving a request from the access terminal to allocate the QoS resources. Further any of the functions describe herein can be included in as additional code in further embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

