---

title: Through the bulkhead repeater
abstract: A method and apparatus for transmitting radio frequency signals and associated information through a plurality of compartments and associated bulkhead walls in a water vessel. The method and apparatus includes a through-the-bulkhead repeater system, in which one or more bi-directional repeater units are mounted on bulkhead walls in each compartment. The bi-directional units communicate with each other to transfer signals throughout the vessel. In operation, a bi-directional unit converts radio frequency signals into energy forms such as ultrasonic waves, which are propagated from one compartment to an adjacent compartment through the thick bulkhead walls. The propagated energy forms are received in the adjacent compartment by another bi-directional unit, which eventually converts the energy form into an output radio frequency signal, which is then transmitted by the bi-directional unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07760585&OS=07760585&RS=07760585
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07760585
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070726
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates generally to an arrangement for providing wireless communication in a vessel more particularly the invention is directed to the use of repeater arrangement for providing wireless communication capable of transmission through thick walled bulkheads and compartments on marine vessels.

Surface and subsurface water vehicles are used in a variety of naval and civilian activities. These vehicles such as ships typically include bulkhead structures that divide functional areas into sections and also provide structural support for the vehicle. These sections may be used as watertight compartments that can contain water in instances where there is a leak or some sort of hull breach. The sections may also be used as fireproofed compartments for preventing the spread of smoke and fire. In order to provide these safety functions the compartments typically comprise thick steel walls.

Wireless communication provides the capability of reconfiguring critical control system information for mission essential tasks. However radio frequency signals have great difficulty in penetrating the steel walls of ships. The compartmentalized steel bulkhead structure is an excellent conductor and when an electric field enters such a conductor it collapses entirely and is severely attenuated. It is desired to have wireless communications arrangements that accommodate for the thick compartment walls and properly transmit radio frequency signals through the bulkhead. It is further desired to overcome this problem without physical penetration of the bulkhead because physical penetration leads to the weakening of the reinforcement as well as increased labor costs.

Disclosed are various systems for transmitting radio frequency signals through bulkheads situated in water transportation vessels.

In one aspect the invention is a through the bulkhead repeater arrangement. The arrangement includes at least one bulkhead wall having a first side and a second side. The invention further includes a first bi directional unit associated with the first side of the bulkhead wall for receiving a radio frequency signal. According to this aspect the first bi directional unit comprises a first antenna and a first transceiver electrically attached to the first antenna wherein the first transceiver receives radio frequency signals via the first antenna. The first bi directional unit also includes a first bi directional converter electrically attached to the first transceiver wherein the first bi directional converter converts radio frequency signals sent by the first transceiver into electronic signals. The first bi directional unit further includes a first bi directional transducer electrically attached to the first bi directional converter. The first bi directional transducer receives the electronic signals from the first bi directional converter and converts the electronic signals into an energy form. The first bi directional transducer also propagates the energy form through the bulkhead wall from the first side of the bulkhead wall to the second side of the bulkhead wall using the bulkhead wall as a conductor. According to this aspect the through the bulkhead repeater arrangement further includes a second bi directional unit associated with the second side of the bulkhead wall for transmitting a radio frequency signal. The second bi directional unit comprises a second bi directional transducer that receives the energy form and converts the energy form into electronic signals. The second bi directional unit further includes a second bi directional converter electrically connected to the second bi directional transducer wherein the second bi directional converter receives the electronic signals from the second bi directional transducer. The second bi directional converter also converts the electronic signals into radio frequency signals. In this aspect the second bi directional unit further includes a second transceiver having a second antenna the second transceiver electrically attached to the second bi directional converter. According to this aspect the second transceiver receives the radio frequency signals from the second bi directional converter and transmits the radio frequency signals via the second antenna.

In another aspect the invention is a water vessel bulkhead repeater system for transmitting radio frequency signals throughout the water vessel. The system comprises a vessel hull having a plurality of bulkhead compartments each compartment arranged adjacent to at least one other compartment. In this aspect each compartment comprises a plurality of bulkhead walls with one or more of the plurality of bulkhead walls separating adjacent compartments from each other. Each bulkhead wall has two opposing sides. In this aspect each compartment comprises at least one bi directional unit mounted on a side of a bulkhead wall within the compartment the at least one bi directional unit having an antenna and a transceiver electrically connected to the antenna. The transceiver is equipped to receive incoming radio frequency signals via the antenna. The at least one bi directional unit also includes a bi directional converter electrically attached to the transceiver with the bi directional converter designed to receive incoming radio frequency signals from the transceiver and for converting the radio frequency signals into electronic signals. In this aspect the at least one bi directional unit further includes a bi directional transducer electrically connected to the bi directional converter for receiving the electronic signals from the bi directional transducer and for converting the signals to an energy form. According to the invention the bi directional transducer propagates the energy form through the bulkhead wall to an adjacent bulkhead compartment.

In another aspect the invention is a method of transmitting radio frequency signals throughout a water vessel. In this aspect the water vessel includes a vessel hull having a plurality of bulkhead compartments. Each compartment is arranged adjacent to at least one other compartment and each compartment comprises a plurality of bulkhead walls with one or more of the plurality of bulkhead walls separating adjacent compartments from each other. In this aspect each bulkhead wall has opposite sides located in adjacent compartments. In this aspect the method includes a capturing an incoming radio frequency signal in a first compartment of one of the compartments b converting the radio frequency signal into an electronic signal c converting the electronic signal into an energy form d transmitting the energy form from the first compartment into an adjacent compartment by propagating the energy form through the bulkhead wall e receiving the energy form at the opposite side of the bulkhead wall in the adjacent compartment f converting the energy form into an electronic signal g converting the electronic signal into an output radio frequency signal and h transmitting the output radio frequency signal.

As shown in in the arrangement the second bi directional unit is associated with the second side of the bulkhead wall and located in the second compartment . The structure of the second bi directional unit is similar to that of the first bi directional unit . The second bi directional unit includes a transceiver and an antenna associated with the transceiver a bi directional converter and a bi directional transducer . Similar to the first unit the elements of the second bi directional unit may be hard wired and packaged as a single device on an integrated circuit board or the like. The unit is preferably mounted on the second side of the bulkhead wall and may be attached to the wall by means of adhesives suction devices magnetic devices or other known non invasive attaching means. Alternatively the unit may be attached to the wall by invasive means such as screws bolts and the like.

According to an exemplary operation of the above described apparatus a radio frequency signal is received by the first bi directional unit converted to an energy form and that energy form is propagated through the bulkhead wall from the first side of the wall. The second bi directional unit receives the energy form on the second side of the wall the energy form eventually converted into a corresponding radio frequency signal. This allows information associated with the initial radio frequency signal to be transmitted through the wall.

In operation the transceiver of the first bi directional unit receives an incoming radio frequency signal via the antenna . The transceiver then sends the radio frequency signal to the bi directional converter which converts the radio frequency signal into an electronic signal. The electronic signal is preferably an acoustic signal such as an ultrasonic signal. If an ultrasonic signal is desired a signal processor such as a voltage controlled oscillator having a fixed carrier frequency set in a specified ultrasonic range may be incorporated in the bi directional converter. The electronic signal may also be a magnetic signal such as an electromagnetic signal. The electronic signal is then fed to the bi directional transducer and is converted by the transducer into an energy form that is conducted through the bulkhead wall . In one particular embodiment if the electronic signal is an acoustic signal the transducer converts this signal into an acoustic wave which it transmits through the bulkhead wall the wall acting as a conductor conducting the signal from the first side to the second side . The acoustic wave may be an ultrasonic wave that is propagated through the bulkhead wall. Ultrasonic waves in the range of 20 Kilohertz to about 1000 Kilohertz may be applicable for solid steel bulkhead walls. In another embodiment if the electronic signal is a magnetic signal the transducer converts magnetic signal into a magnetic wave that is propagated through the bulkhead wall .

According to the exemplary operation the bi directional transducer of the second bi directional unit located in the second compartment senses the energy form that is propagated through the wall . Transducer then converts the energy form into an electronic signal and sends the electronic signal to the bi directional converter . As stated above the energy form may be an acoustic wave such as ultrasonic wave or a magnetic wave. The electronic signal may be an acoustic signal such as an ultrasonic signal or may be a magnetic signal. In the instance when the energy form is an acoustic wave the bi directional transducer may convert the acoustic wave to a frequency modulated electronic signal. Preferably the frequency and power characteristics of bi directional transducer match the characteristics of the bi directional transducer from which the wave emanates. The bi directional converter which may be a signal processor that utilizes a controlled oscillator converts the electronic signal into a radio frequency signal which is then fed to the transceiver . The transceiver receives and transmits the signal via antenna .

The arrangement requires proper alignment of the first bi directional unit with respect to the second bi directional unit . Therefore the units and are positioned on respective sides of the bulkhead wall so that they have matching horizontal and vertical coordinates. In particular the transducers and must align to maximize the transmission and reception of the energy forms through the wall. In some instances when propagating acoustic waves one of the two units may be rotated orthogonally to reduce the ill effects of wave reflection while maintaining the horizontal and vertical coordinate positions of both units.

Because the arrangement is bi directional radio frequency signals received by the second bi directional unit may be transmitted through the bulkhead wall to the first bi directional unit . Therefore radio frequency signals received by the transceiver via the associated antenna are sent to the bi directional converter which converts the radio frequency signal into an electronic signal. The electronic signal is then fed to the bi directional transducer which converts the signal into an energy form that is propagated through the bulkhead wall with the bulkhead wall conducting the energy form from the second side of the wall to the first side of the wall. The bi directional transducer on the first side of the wall converts the energy form into and electronic signal and sends this signal to the bi directional converter . The converter converts the electronic signal into a radio frequency signal which is then received and transmitted by the transceiver via the antenna . The electronic signals and the energy forms may take the form of the signals and energy forms as outlined above in the exemplary operation regarding the transmission of signals from the first compartment to the second compartment . In the above described manner radio frequency signals and information carried by these signals may be transmitted across bulkhead walls in either direction.

As shown in the system includes a series of bi directional through the bulkhead repeater arrangements . Each arrangement is associated with one of the plurality of bulkhead walls and each arrangement having a first bi directional unit and a second bi directional unit . As outlined with respect to each bi directional unit may be a single package formed on an integrated circuit board or the like. Each unit includes a transceiver a bi directional converter and a bi directional transducer. The numbering of the elements of the first and second bi directional units and is consistent with the description of the embodiment of . As illustrated in each compartment includes at least one bi directional unit with central compartments and having two bi directional units with each of the two bi directional units associated with an independent repeater arrangement . As outlined above with respect to the embodiment of bi directional units of the same arrangement communicate with each other by my means of transmitting and receiving energy forms that are propagated through the bulkhead walls . The energy forms may for example be acoustic waves such as ultrasonic waves. As will be explained below bi directional units within the same compartment are configured to communicate with each other by transmitting and receiving radio frequency signals.

In one exemplary operation a radio frequency signal may originate from a source external to the water vessel. The radio frequency signal may be initially received at the forward end by the antenna of the first bi directional unit located in compartment . Alternatively the radio frequency signal may be received by the antenna via one of a plurality of relaying transceivers . Transceivers may be mounted partially inside the hull frame in compartment for example allowing the transceiver to capture radio frequency signals from an external source via an external antenna and to transmit the signal from within the compartment via an internal antenna or via hard wiring inside the compartment.

According to the exemplary operation after the signal is received in compartment the signal is transmitted to the adjacent compartment by the exemplary operation outlined with respect to . More specifically the transceiver which is attached to antenna sends the radio frequency signal to the bi directional converter which converts the signal to a digital signal which is then fed to the bi directional transceiver . The transceiver converts the signal to an energy form which is then propagated through the wall . The bi directional transducer of the second bi directional unit in compartment receives the energy form which it converts to a digital signal and sends the digital signal to the bi directional converter which changes the digital signal to a radio frequency signal which is sent to the transceiver . As outlined above with respect to the electronic signal is preferably an acoustic signal such as an ultrasonic signal. The electronic signal may also be a magnetic signal such as an electromagnetic signal. Additionally the energy form propagated through the wall may be an acoustic wave such as an ultrasonic wave or a magnetic wave.

According to the exemplary operation the transceiver transmits the radio frequency signal via the associated antenna . The signal is received within compartment by the antenna of transceiver of the first bi directional unit which is associated with wall . In accordance with the above outlined operation the radio frequency signal is further transmitted through wall to the second bi directional unit of compartment . This operation i.e. the in compartment transfer of the radio frequency signal from the second bi directional unit to the first bi directional followed by the transmittal through the wall of the converted radio frequency signal is repeated several times. This enables the transmittal of the radio frequency signal throughout the length of the vessel i.e. from the forward end to the aft end through the bulkhead walls and and through compartments and . According to the exemplary operation the transmitted radio frequency signal may be transmitted from compartment to another place such as a remote location.

Because the system of is bi directional radio frequency signals initially received at the aft end of the water vessel may be transmitted to the forward end through bulkhead walls and through the compartments and . Additionally each of the compartments may carry machines cargo electronic equipment and the like from which radio frequency signals emanate. Consequently radio frequency signals may originate from within any of the bulkhead compartments and the signals then relayed to other compartments by means of the outlined operation.

In the illustration each compartment has between two and four bi directional units numbered and . As outlined with respect to A and B each bi directional unit is a single package formed on an integrated circuit board or the like. Each unit and includes a transceiver a bi directional converter and a bi directional transducer. As shown paired bi directional units and are aligned on opposite sides of bulkhead walls and in adjacent compartments to enable the transmission of radio frequency signals in the forward to aft and aft to forward direction X. For example in an operation as outlined with respect to unit in compartment on a first side of wall communicates with unit in compartment on the second side of wall . also shows paired bi directional units and aligned on opposite sides of bulkhead walls and in adjacent compartments to enable the transmission of radio frequency signals in a direction substantially perpendicular to direction X. For example in an operation as outlined with respect to unit in compartment on a first side of wall communicates with unit in compartment on the second side of wall . Additionally each bi directional unit is capable of communicating with another bi directional unit within the same compartment. For example compartment has bi directional units and . As will be explained below each of these units may communicate with each other via the transmittal and reception of radio frequency signals within the compartment.

Within a particular compartment the transmission of radio frequency signals from unit to unit may be achieved by known means. For example in order to accommodate the transmission of radio frequency signals in different directions each bi directional unit in each compartment may be equipped with a frequency modulator that modulates the output frequency of the radio frequency signals. Additionally the receiving antenna of each bi directional unit is responsive only to radio frequency signals of a particular frequency band. Therefore radio frequency signals can be directed to a desired bi directional unit by transmitting radio frequency signals in a frequency band that can only be received by the desired bi directional unit. In one exemplary operation the bi directional unit in compartment shown in receives a radio frequency signal and related information from the bi directional unit of compartment in a manner as outlined with respect to the embodiment of . In this exemplary operation the bi directional unit in compartment has the capability to transmit the radio frequency signal and the related information to one of three other bi directional units and within compartment . If the controller decides that the signal should be transmitted from compartment to the adjacent compartment then within compartment the radio frequency signal would be transmitted from bi directional unit to bi directional unit . In order to direct the signal from unit to unit the frequency modulator in unit modulates the output radio frequency signal into a frequency band that can only be received by bi directional unit . After the bi directional unit receives the radio frequency signal the unit transmits the signal to compartment through bulkhead wall in a manner as outlined with respect to the embodiment of .

Although shows compartments on a similar horizontal level the system of selective transmission as outlined is applicable to a matrix of compartments that are arranged in different horizontal and vertical schemes. is a general perspective view of a through the bulkhead repeater system in a water vessel the water vessel having horizontally and vertically arranged compartments. shows the vessel having compartments on different deck levels. It should be noted that the arrangement may have as many deck levels as desired. The selective transmission of radio frequency signals outlined with respect to is also applicable to . In directing a radio frequency signal through the water vessel of the controller may direct a signal form one compartment to an adjacent compartment on the same deck level or to a compartment at an upper level or to a compartment at a lower level. To enable the transmission of radio frequency signals to these different possible locations each compartment may have six bi directional units the units operating in a manner similar to the manner described with respect to .

The bi directional units of each embodiment may be powered by batteries or by energy harvesting devices. Batteries may be used to provide a stable and reliable power source. However energy harvesting devices that utilize environmental conditions such as light or vibrations can provide a more dynamic power source. The bi directional units may also be powered by hybrid devices that utilize batteries as well as energy harvesting devices.

Step is the capturing of a radio frequency signal in a first compartment of one of the plurality of compartments. The radio frequency signal may originate from outside or inside the compartment. A bi directional unit of the one or more bi directional units in the first compartment processes the radio frequency signal. The antenna and associated transceiver of the unit captures the radio frequency signal. Step is the converting of the radio frequency signal into an electronic signal. The transceiver of the bi directional unit sends the radio frequency signal to the bi directional converter which converts the radio frequency signal to the electronic signal which is then sent to the bi directional transducer. The electronic signal is preferably an acoustic signal such as an ultrasonic signal. The electronic signal may also be a magnetic signal such as an electromagnetic signal.

Step is the converting of the electronic signal into an energy form which is performed by the bi directional transducer of the unit. As stated above the energy form may be an acoustic wave such as ultrasonic wave or a magnetic wave. The electronic signal may be an acoustic signal such as an ultrasonic signal or may be a magnetic signal. Step is the transmitting of the energy form from the first compartment into an adjacent compartment. The bi directional transducer propagates the energy form through the bulkhead wall. As stated above the energy form may be an acoustic wave such as an ultrasonic wave or a magnetic wave. According to this process the bulkhead wall acts as a conductor.

Step is the receiving of the energy form at the opposite side of the bulkhead wall in the adjacent compartment. A bi directional unit of the one or more bi directional units in the adjacent compartment detects and processes the energy form. A bi directional transducer in the bi directional unit in the adjacent compartment detects the energy form. As stated above the energy form may be an acoustic wave such as an ultrasonic wave or may also be a magnetic wave. At step the bi directional transducer converts the energy form into an electronic signal. Again as stated above the electronic signal may be an acoustic signal such as an ultrasonic signal or the signal may also be a magnetic signal. At step the bi directional converter converts the electronic signal into an output radio frequency signal. Step is the transmitting of the output radio frequency signal. The transceiver receives the converted radio frequency signal from the bi directional converter. The transceiver then transmits the output radio frequency signal via the associated antenna.

Step is the receiving of the output radio frequency signal within the same compartment from which the output signal was transmitted. An antenna of another bi directional unit located within compartment receives the signal. The entire process may be repeated to continue the propagation of the radio frequency signal and related information from compartment to compartment through the various bulkhead walls. Additionally in compartments having more than two bi directional units output frequencies may be modulated to a predetermined frequency band so that only a predetermined bi directional unit of the two or more bi directional units receives the radio frequency signal. Alternatively at step the output signal may be captured at a location remote to the water vessel wherein the process ends.

A number of exemplary implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example suitable results may be achieved if the steps of described techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a described component system architecture or devices are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

