---

title: Self-assembly of macromolecules on multilayered polymer surfaces
abstract: The invention is directed toward systems and methods for the formation of two dimensional monolayer structures of ordered biomacromolecules, such as viruses, atop cohesive polyelectrolyte multilayers to create functional thin films. Methods for the formation of such thin films are disclosed that involve an interdiffusion-induced assembly process of the biomacromolecules. The inventive systems provide a general platform for the systematic incorporation and assembly of organic, biological and inorganic materials and will enable many potential technological applications such as, for example, chemical and biological sensors, power devices and catalytic membranes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09274108&OS=09274108&RS=09274108
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 09274108
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070206
---
This application is a National Stage Entry of International Application No. PCT US2007 002914 filed on Feb. 6 2007 and entitled Self Assembly of Macromolecules on Multilayered Polymer Surfaces incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and claims priority from Provisional Application No. 60 765 773 filed on Feb. 6 2006 and entitled Spontaneous Assembly of Viruses on Multilayered Polymer Surfaces and from Provisional Application No. 60 765 772 filed on Feb. 6 2006 and entitled Fabrication of Electrostatically Mediated and Self Assembled Monolayer of Macromolecules on Mobility Enhancing Polyelectrolyte Multiplayer . Each of the provisional applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant number DAAD19 02 D 0002 awarded by the Army Research Office. The United States government may have certain rights in the invention.

A significant prerequisite in nano involved and bio inspired approaches for the fabrication of electrical and optical devices or organization of building blocks to hierarchical structures is the construction of well ordered two dimensional monolayers. It plays a key role not only in embedding a specific functionality on the focused area but also stacking to a multicomponent layer for further higher dimensional integration. Effects to date have primarily focused on two main methods self assembly monolayer SAM and Langmuir Blodgett monolayer LBM .

The self assembly monolayer technique is based on the formation of covalent or coordination bonding between assemblable species and surface. It can generate dense and stable monolayers and serve as a template for bottom up based nano assembly. Due to the requirement of specific binding however the range of material applicability is limited to some chemical species such as those amenable to thiol or silane chemistry. The Langmuir Blodgett monolayer technique utilizes the hydrophobic hydrophilic interactions at the interface between specific molecules and water surface. In this technique molecules are spread to form a monolayer over the water surface and then transferred to the other processible solid surface. By varying an external force to guide the monolayer spreading molecular density and orientation can be tuned as desired. In spite of these advantages of controllability in film properties LBM has shown some drawbacks typically in film processiblity and stability due to the use of fluidic and unstable water surface.

Electrostatic interaction has been one of the important driving forces for molecular self assembly. The most widely accepted technique is layer by layer LBL assembly. The technique takes advantage of electrostatic attractive forces between charged polymers and oppositely charged surfaces and film growth is typically achieved stepwise by the repetitive exposure of substrate to dilute polycation and polyanion solutions. Using this approach it is possible to control film thickness on the nanometer scale by simply increasing the number of adsorbed polycation polyanion layers or to fabricate films possessing gradients of different polyelectrolyte components by manipulating the sequences in which multiple different polymer components are adsorbed G. Decher Science 1997 277 1232 1237 F. Caruso et al. Science 1998 282 1111 1114 Z. Tang et al. Nature Mater. 2003 2 413 418 C. S. Peyratout and L. Dahne Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2004 43 3762 3783 . This assembly process has the added advantage of strong compatibility with biomolecular species without loss of biological function. Thus LBL assembly has a wide variety of potential applications including surface modification sensors conducting or light emitting devices drug delivery nano reactors etc.

However the formation mechanism internal structure and molecular properties of LBL produced polyelectrolyte multilayers are still poorly understood and this has hindered taking full advantage of this powerful technique.

The present invention is directed to new systems and strategies for the construction of quantitatively scalable and functionally controllable biomolecular surfaces on a polyelectrolyte multilayer film. In particular the present invention encompasses the recognition that while the idea that randomly arranged supermolecular species incorporated in a network medium can ultimately create ordered structures at the surface may be counterintuitive such order can be accommodated by regulating dynamic and equilibrium driving forces. More specifically the present Applicants have demonstrated the ordering of genetically engineered M13 virus particles highly complex biomacromolecules atop a cohesive polyelectrolyte multilayer PEM thin film. In conventional polyelectrolyte multilayer PEM systems strong charge binding between ion pairs yields an ionically crosslinked network in which the mobility of polymer chains is significantly limited in some cases the intermixing or diffusion of polyions C. Picard et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2002 99 12531 12535 within the interior of the PEM film during multilayer construction is not facilitated. Adsorption of a charged virus monolayer within such a system would only generate irreversible monolayer charge binding and lead to a randomly stacked virus layer see for example . The present Applicants have shown that when one of the polyelectrolytes is able to interdiffuse into the multilayer it is however possible to unlock these electrostatic crosslinks through competitive interactions. Thus in this case the competitive interdiffusion that usually leads to disorder and disruption in electrostatically assembled thin films is harnessed to achieve spontaneous ordering of virus particles during the assembly process.

Accordingly the present invention provides a new synergistic route for monolayer formation of charged biomacromolecules which combines the advantages of self assembly monolayer SAM and Langmuir Blodgett monolayer LBM methods by mediating the electrostatic interactions between polyelectrolytes and the biomacromolecule allowing the control of assembly density and directionality while maintaining the film stability and functionality. The film thickness can be varied from a few nanometers to tens of micrometers. In addition the polyelectrolyte multilayer film can be doped with a broad range of materials from conducting and redox active polymers to biologically compatible materials. The flexibility variety of organic biological or inorganic materials that can grow on the surface of these films and the low cost of synthesis and assembly of the inventive materials systems will enable many potential technological applications including but not limited to chemical and biological sensors power devices and catalytic reactive membranes.

More specifically the present invention provides a composition comprising a plurality of biomacromolecules and a polyelectrolyte multilayer film wherein the polyelectrolyte multilayer film comprising a positively charged polyelectrolyte and a negatively charged polyelectrolyte wherein the plurality of biomacromolecules form a two dimensional monolayer on the surface of the polyelectrolyte multilayer film.

The biomacromolecules may be all identical or alternatively the plurality of biomacromolecules may comprise different biomacromolecules. Biomacromolecules may be selected from the group consisting of proteins polynucleotides lipids polysaccharides and viruses.

In certain embodiments the plurality of biomacromolecules comprises a virus. In some embodiments the virus is a filamentous virus. In some embodiments the virus is a bacteriophage virus. In some embodiments the virus is a helical virus. In some embodiments the virus is a rod shaped virus for example a rigid rod shaped virus. Preferred rod shapes viruses have a cross sectional diameter of about 3 nm to about 20 nm and a length of about 60 nm to about 6 000 nm.

In certain embodiments the virus comprises at least one recognition site capable of a selective binding to or nucleating of a conjugate moiety. In some embodiments the virus comprises more than one recognition site. For example the virus may comprise a first recognition site capable of a first selective binding to or nucleating of a first conjugate moiety a second recognition site located differently from the first recognition site capable of a second selective binding to or nucleating of a second conjugate moiety and optionally a third recognition site located differently from the first and second recognition sites capable of a third selective binding to or nucleating of a third conjugate moiety.

The virus may be genetically engineered to comprise one or more of these recognition sites. In certain embodiments a recognition site comprises an expressed protein peptide or peptide oligomer.

In certain embodiments the virus comprises at least one recognition site capable of a selective binding to or nucleating of a conjugate moiety that is a member of the group consisting of an inorganic material an organic material and a biomolecular material. For example the conjugate moiety may comprise a semiconductor metallic magnetic polymeric particulate nanoparticulate single crystalline polycrystalline amorphous electronically conducting optically active conducting polymeric light emitting phosphorescent fluorescent glass or ceramic moiety.

In certain compositions of the present invention the plurality of biomacromolecules form a dense ordered two dimensional monolayer of biomacromolecules on the surface of the polyelectrolyte multilayer film. In other compositions of the present invention the plurality of biomacromolecules form a sparse two dimensional monolayer of biomacromolecules. The monolayer of biomacromolecules may have a density of about 1 to about 100 biomacromolecules m.

In some embodiments the positively charged polyelectrolyte is a weak positively charged polyelectrolyte. In some embodiments the negatively charged polyelectrolyte is a weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte. In some embodiments the positively charged polyelectrolyte is a weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and the negatively charged polyelectrolyte is a weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte and they form a pair of weak oppositely charged polyelectrolytes. The pair of weak oppositely charged polyelectrolytes may be a member of the group consisting of linear polyethyleneimine poly styrenesulfonic acid LPEI SPS poly diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride poly styrenesulfonic acid PDAC SPS poly allylamine hydrochloride poly styrenesulfonic acid PAH SPS linear polyethyleneimine poly acrylic acid LPEI PAA poly diallyldimethylammonium chloride poly acrylic acid PDAC PAA and poly styrenesulfonic acid poly acrylic acid PAH PAA . In certain embodiments the pair of oppositely charged polyelectrolytes is linear polyethyleneimine poly acrylic acid LPEI PAA .

In certain embodiments the pair of oppositely charged polyelectrolytes exhibits a superlinear thickness growth.

In certain embodiments the polyelectrolytes have a surface charge density that is higher than the surface charge density of the biomacromolecules. For example the surface charge density of the polyelectrolytes can be at least about 2 fold higher at least about 3 fold higher at least about 4 fold higher or more than 4 fold higher than the surface charge density of the biomacromolecules.

In some embodiments the positively charged polyelectrolyte and or the negatively charged polyelectrolyte is are biocompatible. In some embodiments the positively charged polyelectrolyte and or the negatively charged polyelectrolyte is are degradable e.g. biodegradable .

In another aspect the present invention provides a film comprising any of the compositions disclosed herein. The film may have a thickness between about 10 m and about 1000 m.

In still another aspect the present invention provides a device comprising an inventive film. The device can be an electronic device an optoelectronic device an electrochemical device or an electromechanical device. For example the device may be a sensor a conductive system a power device or a catalytic membrane.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides methods for preparing compositions disclosed herein.

A first method comprises steps of providing a plurality of negatively charged biomacromolecules providing a polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film produced by layer by layer assembly using a weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and a weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte wherein the surface of the film is positively charged contacting the surface of the film with the biomacromolecules to obtain a thin film comprising biomacromolecules electrostatically bound to its surface and forming on top of the obtained thin film a second polyelectrolyte multilayer by layer by layer assembly using the weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and the weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte.

In certain embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film has a thickness of less than about 50 nm. In some embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film comprises less than about 6 bilayers.

A second method comprises steps of providing a plurality of negatively charged biomacromolecules providing a polyelectrolyte multilayer film produced by layer by layer assembly using a weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and a weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte wherein the film is thick and the surface of the film is positively charged and contacting the surface of the film with biomacromolecules.

In certain embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thick film has a thickness of more than about 50 nm. In some embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thick film comprises more than about 6 bilayers.

In these methods of preparation the biomacromolecules and polyelectrolytes can be as described above.

In the inventive methods of preparation the step of providing a plurality of biomacromolecules comprises providing an aqueous solution comprising the plurality of biomacromolecules. In certain embodiments the aqueous solution of biomacromolecules has a pH that is selected such that strong repulsion takes place between the negatively charged biomacromolecules. In other embodiments the aqueous solution of biomacromolecules has a pH that is selected such that weak repulsion takes place between the negatively charged biomacromolecules.

In certain embodiments the step of contacting the surface of the film with the biomacromolecules may comprise depositing the aqueous solution of biomacromolecules on the film surface. In other embodiments the step of contacting the surface of the film with the biomacromolecules may comprise flowing the aqueous solution of biomacromolecules in the microfluidic channel onto the film surface.

These and other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having read the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

Unless otherwise stated all technical and scientific terms used herein have the meaning commonly understood by a person skilled in the art to which this invention belongs. The following terms have the meaning ascribed to them unless specified otherwise.

As used herein the term biocompatible is intended to describe any material which does not elicit a substantial detrimental response in vivo.

The term biodegradable when used to characterize a material e.g. a polymer refers to a material that degrades under physiological conditions to form a product that can be metabolized or excreted without damage or without permanent damage to a subject e.g. a human patient . Biodegradable materials may be hydrolytically degradable may require cellular and or enzymatic action to fully degrade or both. Biodegradable materials also include materials that are broken down within cells. Degradation may occur by hydrolysis enzymatic processes phagocytosis or other processes. Biodegradable materials also include materials that are degraded by body heat.

The term bioactive agent and biologically active agent are used herein interchangeably. They refer to compounds or entities that alter inhibit activate or otherwise affect biological or chemical events. For example bioactive agents may include but are not limited to anti AIDS substances anti cancer substances antibiotics immunosuppressants anti viral substances enzyme inhibitors neurotoxins opioids hypnotics anti histamines lubricants tranquilizers anti convulsants muscle relaxants and anti Parkinson substances anti spasmodics and muscle contractants including channel blockers miotics and anti cholinergics anti glaucoma compounds anti parasite and or anti protozoal compounds modulators of cell extracellular matrix interactions including cell growth inhibitors and anti adhesion molecules vasodilating agents inhibitors of DNA RNA or protein synthesis anti hypertensives analgesics anti pyretics steroidal and non steroidal anti inflammatory agents anti angiogenic factors anti secretory factors anticoagulants and or antithrombotic agents local anesthetics ophthalmics prostaglandins anti depressants anti psychotic substances anti emetics and imaging agents. The bioactive agent may be a drug.

As used herein the term biomolecules refers to molecules e.g. proteins amino acids peptides polynucleotides nucleotides carbohydrates sugars lipids nucleoproteins glycoproteins lipoproteins steroids etc whether naturally occurring or artificially created e.g. by synthetic or recombinant methods that are commonly found in cells and tissues. Specific classes of biomolecules include but are not limited to enzymes receptors neurotransmitters hormones cytokines cell response modifiers such as growth factor and chemotactic factors antibodies vaccines haptens toxins interferons ribozymes anti sense agents plasmids DNA and RNA.

As used herein the term biomacromolecules refers to biomolecules that have a high molecular weight. The molecular weight of a biomacromolecule may be anywhere from about 1 000 to about 100 000 000 grams mole preferably from about 10 000 to about 25 000 000 grams mole.

The term degradation as used herein in reference to a polymer relates to the cleavage of a covalent polymer backbone. Full degradation of a polymer breaks the polymer down to monomeric species. Degradation of a polymer may occur by a variety of mechanisms including but not limited to hydrolytic degradation biodegradation thermal degradation photolytic degradation and any combination thereof.

As used herein the term electrolyte refers to any chemical compound that dissociates in aqueous solutions and becomes charged. The terms polyelectrolyte and polyion are used herein interchangeably and refer to a polymer whose repeating units bear an electrolyte group which dissociates in aqueous solutions making the polymer charged. If after dissolution in an aqueous solution the resulting polyelectrolyte is positive it is referred to as a polycation or a positively charged polyelectrolyte. Conversely if the resulting polyelectrolyte is negative it is referred to as a polyanion or a negatively charged polyelectrolyte. Polyelectrolytes can be naturally occurring or synthetic polymers. Polyelectrolytes are classified as either weak polyelectrolytes or strong polyelectrolytes . A strong polyelectrolyte is one which dissociates completely in aqueous solutions of neutral pHs i.e. about pH 7 . A weak polyelectrolyte by contrast has a dissociation constant pK in the range of about 2 to about 10 meaning that it will be partially dissociated at intermediate i.e. neutral pH. Thus weak polyelectrolytes are not fully charged in solution and moreover their fractional charge can be modified by changing the solution pH.

The term physiological conditions as used herein relates to the range of chemical e.g. pH ionic strength and biochemical e.g. enzyme concentrations conditions likely to be encountered in the intracellular and extracellular fluids or tissues. For most fluids and tissues the physiological pH ranges from about 7.0 to about 7.4.

The terms polynucleotide nucleic acid and oligonucleotide are used herein interchangeably and refer to a polymer of nucleotides. Typically a polynucleotide comprises at least three nucleotides. DNAs and DNAs are polynucleotides. A polynucleotide may include natural nucleosides i.e. adenosine thymidine guanosine cytidine uridine deoxyadenosine deoxythymidine deoxyguanosine and deoxycytidine nucleoside analogs e.g. 2 aminoadenosine 2 thiothymidine inosine pyrrolo pyrimidine 3 methyl adenosine C5 propynylcytidine C5 propylnyluridine C5 bromouridine C5 fluorouridine C5 iodouridine C5 methyl cytidine 7 deazaadenosine 7 deazaguanosine 8 oxoadenosine 8 oxoguanosine O 6 methylguanine and 2 thiocytidine biologically modified bases e.g. methylated bases intercalated bases and modified sugars e.g. phosphorothioates and 5 N phosphoramidite linkages . The polymer may also be a short strand of nucleic acids such as RNAi siRNA or shRNA.

The terms polypeptide peptide and protein are used herein interchangeably. They refer to a string of at least three amino acids linked together by peptide bonds. Peptide may refer to an individual peptide or a collection of peptides. Peptides may contain only natural amino acids although non natural amino acids i.e. compounds that do not occur in nature but that can be incorporated into a polypeptide chain and or amino acid analogs as are known in the art may alternatively be employed. Also one or more of the amino acids of a peptide may be modified for example by addition of a chemical entity such as a carbohydrate group a phosphate group a farnesyl group an isofarnesyl group a fatty acid group a linker for conjugation functionalization or other modification etc. Modifications of a peptide may be introduced to produce a more stable peptide. These modifications may include cyclization of the peptide the incorporation of D amino acids etc. Preferably none of the modifications should substantially interfere with the desired activity of the peptide.

The terms polysaccharide and oligosaccharide are used herein interchangeably. They refer to a polymer or oligomer of carbohydrate residues. The polymer or oligomer may consist of anywhere from two to hundreds to thousands of sugar units or more. The term carbohydrate generally refers to a relatively low molecular weight polymer while polysaccharide typically refers to a higher molecular weight polymer. Polysaccharides may be purified from natural sources such as plants or may be synthesized de novo in the laboratory. Polysaccharides isolated from natural sources may be modified chemically to change their chemical or physical properties e.g. reduced oxidized phosphorylated cross linked . Carbohydrate polymers or oligomers may include natural sugars e.g. glucose fructose galactose mannose arabinose ribose xylose etc. and or modified sugars e.g. 2 fluororibose 2 deoxyribose etc. . Polysaccharides may also be either straight or branched. They may contain both natural and or unnatural carbohydrate residues. The linkage between the residues may be the typical ether linkage found in nature or may be a linkage only available to synthetic chemists. Examples of polysaccharides include cellulose maltin maltose starch modified starch dextran poly dextrose and fructose. Glycosaminoglycans are also considered polysaccharides. Sugar alcohol as used herein refers to any polyol such as sorbitol mannitol xylitol galactitol erythritol inositol ribitol dulcitol adonitol arabitol dithioerythritol dithiothreitol glycerol isomalt and hydrogenated starch hydrolysates.

The term small molecule as used herein refers to molecules whether naturally occurring or artificially created e.g. via chemical synthesis that have a relatively low molecular weight. Typically small molecules are monomeric and have a molecular weight of less than about 1500 Da. A small molecule may be a biologically active agent.

As mentioned above the present invention provides new systems and methods for the formation of two dimensional monolayer structures of ordered biomacromolecules e.g. viruses such as M13 virus systems atop cohesive polyelectrolyte multilayers to create functional or multifunctional thin films. In addition to being simple rapid low cost efficient and environment friendly the inventive methods allow the control of assembly density and directionality while maintaining the film stability and functionality. The inventive systems provide a general platform for the systematic incorporation and assembly of organic biological and inorganic materials.

Certain aspects of preferred embodiments of the invention are described below in more detail. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a variety of embodiments or versions of the invention are not specifically discussed but are nonetheless within the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

In the present invention reference can be made to Nam et al. Nano Lett. 2003 4 23 27 Yoo et al. Nature Mater. 2006 5 234 240 Provisional Application No. 60 765 773 entitled Spontaneous Assembly of Viruses on Multilayered Polymer Surfaces to A. Belcher and Provisional Application No. 60 765 772 entitled Fabrication of Electrostatically Mediated and Self Assembled Monolayer of Macromolecules on Mobility Enhancing Polyelectrolyte Multiplayer to A. Belcher which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In practice of the present invention reference can also be made to the article C. E. Flynn et al. Acta Materiala 2003 51 5867 5880 entitled Viruses as vehicles for growth organization and assembly of materials . This reference as well as all references cited in this article are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In addition one skilled in the art can also refer to the following patent literature for selection of virus genetic engineering methods and for materials to be used with genetically engineered viruses phage display libraries and experimental methods for using them in biopanning are further described for example in the following U.S. published patent applications to Belcher et al. Applications 1 No. 2003 0068900 entitled Biological Control of Nanoparticle Nucleation Shape and Crystal Phase published Apr. 10 2003 2 No. 2003 0073104 entitled Nanoscale Ordering of Hybrid Materials Using Genetically Engineered Mesoscale Virus published Apr. 17 2003 3 No. 2003 0113714 entitled Biological Control of Nanoparticles published Jun. 19 2003 4 No. 2003 0148380 entitled Molecular Recognition of Materials published Aug. 7 1003 5 No. 2004 0127640 entitled Composition method and use of bifunctional biomaterials published Sep. 4 2003 6 No. 2005 0064508 entitled Peptide Mediated Synthesis of Metallic and Magnetic Materials published Mar. 24 2005 7 No. 2004 0171139 entitled Fabricated BioFilm Storage Device published Sep. 2 2004 8 No. 2005 0170336 entitled Multifunctional Biomaterials as Scaffolds for Electronic Optical Magnetic Semiconducting and Biotechnological Applications published Aug. 4 2005 9 No. 2005 0180992 entitled Viral Fibers published Aug. 18 2005 10 No. 2005 0221083 entitled Inorganic Nanowires published Oct. 6 2005 and 11 No. 2006 0121346 entitled Virus Scaffold for Self Assembled Flexible and Light Lithium Battery published Jun. 8 2006 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. These references describe a variety of specific binding modifications which can be carried out for binding conjugate structures as well as forming the conjugate structures in the presence of the material modified for specific binding. In particular polypeptide and amino acid oligomeric sequences can be expressed on the surfaces of viral particles including both at the ends and along the length of the elongated virus particle such as M13 bacteriophage including pIII and pVIII expressions as well as pIX pVII and pVI expressions and combinations thereof.

In addition the following paper by Whaley et al. Selection of Peptides with Semiconductor Binding Specificity for Directed Nanocrystal Assembly Nature 2000 405 665 668 is also incorporated herein by reference. This paper shows a method of selecting peptides with binding specificity using a combinatorial library. Specifically the paper shows a method of selecting peptides with binding specificity to semiconductor materials using a combinatorial library with about 109 different peptides. The combinatory library of random peptides each containing 12 amino acids were fused to the pIII coat protein of M13 coliphage and exposed to crystalline semiconductor structures. Peptides that bound to the semiconductor materials were eluted amplified and re exposed to the semiconductor materials under more stringent conditions. After the fifth round of selection the semiconductor specific phages were isolated and sequenced to determine the binding peptide. In this manner peptides were selected with high binding specificity depending on the crystallographic structure and composition of the semiconductor material. The technique could be readily modified to obtain peptides with a binding specificity for not just semiconductor materials but a range of both organic and inorganic materials.

In certain embodiments of the present invention genetic programming is carried out to engineer a virus structure using different displayed peptide features of a virus such as the filamentous M13 virus. An overall advantage of this genetic programming approach to materials engineering in addition to materials specific addressability is the potential to specify viral length and geometry. The length of the filamentous virus is generally related to the size of its packaged genetic information and the electrostatic balance between the pVIII derived core of the virion and the DNA see for example B. K. Kay et al. Academic Press San Diego 1996 . Phages observed by AFM generally are seen to be roughly 860 nm and as short as 560 nm depending on whether the complete M13 genome or smaller phagemid are used in sample preparation see for example C. Mao et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 2003 100 6946 . Also changing a single lysine to glutamine on the inner end of pVIII can result in particles approximately 35 longer than wild type phage see for example J. Greenwood et al. J. Mol. Biol. 1991 217 223 .

As already mentioned above the present invention involves the formation of a two dimensional ordered monolayer biomacromolecules. Biomacromolecules suitable for use in the invention include any biomacromolecule that is charged e.g. negatively charged and can undergo spontaneous self assembly according to methods of the present invention. The biomacromolecule can be naturally charged or can be modified e.g. synthetically transformed or genetically engineered to carry a charge. In certain embodiments the biomacromolecule has an elongated shape e.g. a long rod like structure. In certain embodiments the biomacromolecule has a rigid structure. In some embodiments the biomacromolecule can be functionalized e.g. mono or multi functionalized . The functional group s can be recognition sites which provide sites for binding nucleation and or catalysis.

Biomacromolecules suitable for use in the practice of the present invention can be found in a variety of classes of molecules including but not limited to proteins polypeptides polynucleotides lipids polysaccharides filamentous proteins peptide fibers biopolymer fibers viruses and viruses particles. The molecular weight of the biomacromolecules can be anywhere between about 1 000 and about 100 000 000 grams mole preferably from about 10 000 to about 25 000 000 grams mole.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the biomacromolecule is a virus or virus particle . The virus is not particularly limited as long as it is charged e.g. negatively charged or can be modified to carry a charge e.g. by genetic engineering . Preferably the virus can be functionalized. In general virus particles which are long filamentous structures can be used in the practice of the present invention see for example C. Ring Ed. Bios Scientific 2001 . Additionally other viral geometries such as dodecahedral and icosahedral can be functionalized and used to create materials according to the present invention.

In certain preferred embodiments the size and dimensions of the virus particles can be such that the particle is elongated. For example the viral particles may have a cross sectional diameter of about 3 nm to about 20 nm and a length of about 60 nm to about 6 000 nm. More particularly the length can be about 250 nm to about 2 000 nm for example about 500 nm about 600 nm about 700 nm about 800 nm about 900 nm about 1000 nm about 1 000 nm about 1 200 nm about 1500 nm about 1700 nm or about 1900 nm. Generally viruses suitable for use in the present invention may be characterized by an aspect ratio of at least 25 at least 50 at least 75 at least 100 or even at least 250 or 500.

In certain embodiments the structure of the virus particles can be such that the particle has a rigid elongated configuration i.e. the particle has a limited restricted conformational flexibility and does not undergo significant folding and unfolding reactions . Steric constraints introduced by the rigidity of the virus reduce the ability to maximize charge charge contacts between the virus and the positively charged polyelectrolyte of the PEM and result in competitive exchange of the virus with the negatively charged polyelectrolyte of the PEM see below .

Virus particles suitable for use in the present invention can include an entire virus or portions of a virus comprising at least the virus capsid. As used herein the term virus refers to both viruses and phages. Entire viruses can include a nucleic acid genome a capsid and may optionally include an envelop. Suitable viruses may further include both native and heterologous amino acid oligomers such as cell adhesion factors. The nucleic acid genome may be either a native genome or an engineered genome. Virus particles may or may not contain DNA and if virus particles do contain DNA the DNA may or may not encode for the viral capsid. In general a virus particle has a native structure wherein the peptide and nucleic acid portions of the virus are configured in particular arrangement that are sought to be preserved when it is converted to solid state self supporting forms such as films.

A wide variety of viruses may be used in the practice of the present invention. The inventive compositions and materials may comprise a plurality of viruses of a single type or a plurality of different types of viruses. In certain embodiments the viruses are helical viruses. Examples of helical viruses include but are not limited to tobacco mosaic virus TMV phage pfl phage fdl CTX phage and phage M13. These viruses are generally rod shaped and may be rigid or flexible. In certain embodiments rigid rod shaped viruses are used. One skilled in the art may select viruses depending on the intended use of the final material and properties of the virus.

In certain embodiments M13 systems are used as viruses in the present invention. The wild type filamentous M13 virus is approximately 6.5 nm in diameter and 880 nm in length N. K. Kay et al. Academic Press San Diego 1996 . The length of the cylinder reflects the length of the packaged single stranded DNA genome size. The capsid of M13 virus includes several proteins. At one end of the M13 virus there are approximately five copies of each of pII and pIX proteins. The other end has about five copies of each of pIII and pVI proteins. The wild type M13 virus coat includes about 2700 copies of major coat protein pVIII which are stacked in units of five in a helical array. This unit periodic uniform structure is genetically controlled.

In certain embodiments virus particles are used which are not genetically engineered. However in general desirable properties can be achieved when the virus is genetically engineered. For example viruses can be used which have been subjected to biopanning so that the virus particles can specifically recognize and bind to the materials which is the object of the biopanning. The materials can also be nucleated and synthesized in particulate form including nanoparticle form in the presence of the specific recognition and binding sites. Use of filamentous viruses in so celled directed evolution or biopanning is known in the art and has been described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 223 409 and 5 571 698 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In certain embodiments viruses are used that have been engineered to express one or more peptide sequences including amino acid oligomers on the surface of the viruses. The amino acid oligomers may be native to the virus or heterologous sequences derived from other organisms or engineered to meet specific needs. The expression of the amino acid oligomers may serve a number of functions including but not limited to binding sites for organic or inorganic molecules or particles nucleation sites for organic or inorganic molecules or particles. Expression of amino acid oligomers allows the viruses and materials comprising the viruses to be engineered to specific applications. For example amino acid oligomers with specificity for an inorganic molecule may be expressed to bind or nucleate the inorganic molecule to increase the efficiency of a chemical reaction. In another example the expressed amino acid oligomer may bind and detect an organic molecule e.g. a biological warfare agent . Such material could be incorporated into the clothing of military personnel or first responders as part of a sensor system. These are only a few examples of the utility of materials comprising engineered viruses and other applications will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art.

Amino acid oligomers may be of any length and may include non amino acid components. Oligomers having about 5 to about 100 and more particularly about 5 to about 30 amino acid units as specific binding nucleation sites can be used. Non amino acid components include but are not limited to sugars lipids drugs enzymes or inorganic molecules including electronic semiconducting magnetic and optic materials.

Genetically engineered viruses can be prepared by methods and using vectors as described in for example N. K. Kay et al. Academic Press San Diego 1996 in particular Chapter 3 entitled Vectors for Phage Display and references cited therein. Alternatively or additionally genetically engineered viruses can be prepared by methods as described for example in Barbas et al. 2001 including Chapter 2 entitled Phage Display Vectors and references cited therein. The type of vector is not particularly limited. Table 2.1 of the Barbas lists exemplary vectors that can be used in various combinations to provide multifunctional viruses. For example type 3 type 8 8 and phagemid type p7 p9 can be combined. Or type 8 and type 3 can be combined along with phagemid type p7 p9 as desired. One skilled in the art can develop other combinations based on particular applications. Methods can be developed to either display the peptide on some or substantially all copies of the coat protein.

A number of other prior art references teach the engineering of viruses to express amino acid oligomers and may be used to assist in practicing the present invention. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 403 484 discloses the selection and expression of heterologous binding domains on the surface of viruses. U.S. Pat. No. 5 766 905 discloses a display vector comprising DNA encoding at least a portion of capsid protein followed by a cloning site for insertion of a foreign DNA sequence. The compositions described are useful in producing a virus expressing a protein or peptide of interest. U.S. Pat. No. 5 885 808 discloses an adenovirus and methods of modifying an adenovirus with a modified cell binding moiety. U.S. Pat. No. 6 261 554 shows an engineered gene delivery vehicle comprising a gene of interest and a viral capsid or envelope carrying a member of a specific binding pair. U.S. published patent application No. 2001 0019820 shows viruses engineered to express ligands on their surface for the detection of molecules such as polypeptides cells receptors and channel proteins. See also U.S. published patent application No. 2005 0170336 to Belcher et al. for methods of engineering viruses to nucleate inorganic materials and form metallic magnetic or semiconductor materials.

In embodiments wherein M13 systems are used the different regions such as pIII pVI pVII pVIII and pIX may express the same or different amino acid oligomers. For example pIII and pVIII may express amino acid oligomers with different binding or nucleating specificities. In addition amino acid oligomers with different binding specificities may be expressed on the same region such as pVIII. For example glutamic acid and aspartic acid which contain carboxylic acid side chains may be genetically expressed on the pVIII protein and used to bind various metal ions via chelation see for example U.S. published patent application No. 2006 0121346 to Belcher et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . The ratio of glutamate to aspartate in the peptides may range from 100 glutamate to 100 aspartate. Alternatively or additionally an inert peptide sequence may be coupled to the carboxylated peptide sequence or a peptide that is selective for some other material may be coupled to the carboxylated peptide. The carboxylate enhancement may be expressed on all the pVIII chains 100 display or may be partially displayed using various techniques for modifying bacteriophage genomes well known in the art. Alternatively or additionally the carboxylate enhancement may be expressed on one of the other coat proteins e.g. pIII .

The affinity of the desired metal or oxide for the modified virus may be optimized using the phage display library techniques described in U.S. published patent application No. 2003 0073104 published on Apr. 17 2003 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The use of phage display provides a method to co locate both ionic and electronic conductors which can be useful in the fabrication of batteries e.g. lithium ion batteries . In certain embodiments a peptide sequence that selectively binds an electronic conductor may be incorporated into the protein coat of the virus. For example biopanning may be used to identify a peptide sequence that is selective for a desired catalyst e.g. copper gold silver nickel platinum palladium etc. This peptide may be expressed on a different coat protein than the modified coat protein that binds the metal oxide. Alternatively or additionally the peptide may be expressed on a portion of the same coat protein e.g. pVIII on which the peptide for the metal oxide is expressed. For example biopanning using a library of variations in one coat protein may be used to identify a peptide sequence for which a polynucleotide is engineered such that the peptide is expressed in a different coat protein. The resulting virus expressing one type or two types of modified peptides may then be used to nucleate nanoparticles of the metal oxide with or without an electronic conductor.

The conjugate material is not particularly limited. In general it will be selected for a particular application. It can be selected so that the virus particles can be subjected to biopanning against the conjugate material and then the conjugate material is selectively or specifically bound to the virus particle. In some applications selective binding can be sufficient whereas in other applications a more powerful specific binding can be preferred. The virus can act as a catalyst for formation of or biomineralization of the conjugate material on the virus.

Examples of general types of conjugate materials include inorganic organic particulate nanoparticulate small molecule single crystalline polycrystalline amorphous metallic noble metal magnetic semiconductor polymeric electronically conducting optically active conducting polymeric light emitting phosphorescent and fluorescent materials. Conjugate materials can be directly linked to the recognition site or can be linked to the recognition site by a linking moiety. Conjugate materials can be formed in the presence of the recognition moiety and coupled to it and bind to it as it is formed. Or conjugation materials can be preformed and then bound to the recognition site. For example nanocrystals can be nucleated at the recognition sites or can be preformed and bound to the recognition sites. Conjugate materials which are useful electrode materials such as for example noble metals and gold can be used. Conjugate materials are described further for example in the patent applications and technical literature to Angela Belcher and co workers cited in this specification.

Conjugate materials can be for example preformed quantum dots such as those available from Quantum Dot Corp. Quantum dots can comprise a core shell structure where the core can be for example CdS CdSe or CdTe and the shell can be for example zinc sulfide. The quantum dots can also be subjected to a further coating such as a hydrophobic hydrophilic polymer having carboxylic acid derivatization. The hydrophobic part can interact with the inorganic inside of the quantum dot and the hydrophilic part can interact with the exterior including solvent. Examples of patents describing quantum dots include for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 322 901 6 576 291 6 423 551 6 251 303 6 319 426 6 426 513 6 444 143 5 990 479 6 207 392 6 251 303 6 319 426 6 426 513 6 444 143 5 990 479 6 207 392 6 423 551 6 251 303 6 319 426 6 426 513 6 444 143 5 990 479 6 207 392 5 990 479 6 207 392 6 423 551 6 306 610 6 326 144 5 990 479 6 207 392 6 274 323 6 207 392 6 500 622 6 815 064 and 6 649 138.

In the present invention a two dimensional monolayer structure of biomacromolecules is formed atop of a polyelectrolyte multilayer PEM . PEM used as a charge mediating medium for monolayer assembly has the advantage of enabling the delicate control of surface charge density by varying salt concentration or pH of polyelectrolyte solution which allows facile processing conditions without any complicating equipment and procedure. Preferred PEMs suitable for use in the present invention are mobility enhancing polyelectrolyte multilayers.

The oppositely charged polymers i.e. polyelectrolytes used for the PEM may be soluble in water and or organic solvents. In certain preferred embodiments the polyelectrolytes are water soluble.

Examples of polyelectrolytes that are soluble in water include poly styrenesulfonic acid poly 2 acrylamido 2 methyl 1 propane sulfonic acid sulfonated lignin poly ethylenesulfonic acid poly methacryloxyethylsulfonic acid poly acrylic acids poly methacrylic acids their salts and copolymers thereof as well as poly diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride poly vinylbenzyltrimethylammonium ionenes poly acryloxyethyl trimethyl ammonium chloride poly methacryloxy 2 hydroxy propyl trimethyl ammonium chloride and copolymers thereof and polyelectrolytes comprising a pyridinium group such as poly N methylvinylpyridium protonated polyamines such as poly allylamine hydrochloride and poly ethyleneimmine 

Examples of polyelectrolytes that are soluble in non aqueous solvents such as ethanol methanol dimethylformamide acetonitrile carbon tetrachloride and methylene chloride include poly N alkylvinylpyridines and poly N alkylvinylimidazoles and copolymers thereof in which the alkyl group is longer than about 4 carbon atoms. Other examples of polyelectrolytes soluble in organic solvents include poly styrenesulfonic acid poly diallyl dimethylammonium chloride poly N methylvinylpyridinium and poly ethyleneimine where the small polymer counterion such as chloride or bromide has been replaced by a large hydrophobic counterion such as tetrabutyl ammonium tetraethyl ammonium iodine hexafluorophosphate tetrafluoroborate or trifluoromethane sulfonate.

The polyelectrolytes generally comprise one or more monomer repeat units that are positively or negatively charged. The charge may be disposed in side groups pendant from the polymer backbone may be attached to the backbone directly or can be incorporated in the backbone itself. The polyelectrolytes may be copolymers that have a combination of charged and or neutral monomers e.g. positive and neutral negative and neutral positive and negative or positive negative and neutral . Regardless of the exact combination of charged and neutral monomers a polyelectrolyte used in the present invention is predominantly positively charged or predominantly negatively charged and hereinafter is refer to as a positively charged polyelectrolyte or a negatively charged polyelectrolyte if the polymer carries a net positive charge or a net negative charge at neutral pH respectively. Some polyelectrolytes comprise a repeat unit that has both a negative and positive charge. Such repeat units are termed zwitterionic and the polyelectrolyte is termed a zwitterionic polyelectrolyte . Preferably polyelectrolytes comprising zwitterionic groups also comprise pH sensitive units. These pH sensitive units can be acrylic acids carboxylic acids and copolymers thereof and protonable nitrogens such as pyridines imidazoles piperidines and primary secondary or tertiary amine groups such as allylamine. Zwitterionic groups can be present on polyelectrolytes as blocks or randomly dispersed throughout the polymer chain. Zwitterionic polyelectrolytes may be neutrally charged at one pH positively charged at another pH and negatively charged at a third pH.

The charges on a polyelectrolyte may be derived directly from the monomer units or they may be introduced by chemical reaction on a precursor polymer. Thus for example poly styrenesulfonic acid can be made by polymerizing the negatively charged styrene sulfonate monomer. It can also be made by sulfonation of neutral polystyrene. The chemical modification of precursor polymers to produce charged polymers may be incomplete and typically result in an average charge per repeat unit that is less than 1.

Negatively charged polyelectrolytes may include carboxylate sulfonate sulfate phosphate nitrate or other negatively charged or ionizable groups. Examples of negatively charged synthetic polyelectrolytes suitable for use in the practice of the present invention and comprising sulfonate groups SO include but are not limited to poly styrenesulfonic acid PSS poly 2 acrylamido 2 methyl 1 propane sulfonic acid PAMPS sulfonated poly ether ether ketone SPEEK poly ethylenesulfonic acid poly methacryloxyethylsulfonic acid their salts and copolymers thereof. Examples of negatively charged synthetic polyelectrolytes suitable for use in the practice of the present invention and comprising carboxylate groups include but are not limited to poly acrylic acid PAA and poly methacrylic acid .

Positively charged polyelectrolytes may include protonated amine quaternary ammonium or phosphonium derived functions or other positively charged or ionizable groups. Examples of positively charged synthetic polyelectrolytes suitable for use in the practice of the present invention and comprising a quaternary ammonium group include but are not limited to poly diallyldimethylammonium chloride PDAC poly vinylbenzyl trimethylammonium PVBTA ionenes poly acryloxyethyl trimethyl ammonium chloride poly methacryloxy 2 hydroxy propyltrimethyl ammonium chloride and copolymers thereof. Examples of positively charged polyelectrolytes comprising a pyridinium group include but are not limited to poly N methylvinylpyridinium PMVP other poly N alkylvinylpyridines and copolymers thereof. Examples of positively charged polyelectrolytes comprising protonated polyamines include but are not limited to poly allylaminehydrochloride PAH and polyethyleneimines PEI e.g. linear polyethyleneimine LPEI .

To induce a self assembly in general there is a requirement of high mobility for assemblable species. In many embodiments of the present invention reversible weak electrostatic interaction between charged entities is the essential source to induce the interdiffusion and resulting biomacromolecule e.g. virus mobility. Recent investigations have revealed that there can be a reversible interdiffusion within polyelectrolyte multilayer in some pairs of weak polyelectrolytes typically showing a characteristic of superlinear thickness growth C. Picart et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2002 99 12531 12535 P. Lavalle et al. Macromolecules 2002 35 4458 4465 . Accordingly in certain preferred embodiments a pair of weak oppositely charged polyelectrolytes are used in the practice of the present invention. As already mentioned above weak polyelectrolytes are polyelectrolytes that become charged at certain pH values. For example poly acrylic acids and derivatives begin to take on a negative charge within the range of about pH 4 to about pH 6 and are negatively charged at higher pH levels. Below this transition pH range however poly acrylic acids are protonated i.e. uncharged . Similarly polyamines and derivatives take on a positive charge if the pH of the solution is below the pK. As such and in accordance with the present invention the pH of a polyelectrolyte solution may be adjusted by the addition of an acid and or base in order to attain maintain and or adjust the electrical charge of a polyelectrolyte or of a polyelectrolyte at the surface of or within a polyelectrolyte multilayer.

Examples of pairs of weak polyelectrolytes suitable for use in the practice of the present invention include but are not limited to linear polyethylene imine poly styrenesulfonic acid LPEI SPS poly diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride poly styrenesulfonic acid PDAC SPS poly allylamine hydrochloride poly styrenesulfonic acid PAH SPS linear polyethylene imine poly acrylic acid LPEI PAA poly diallyldimethylammonium chloride poly acrylic acid PDAC PAA and poly styrenesulfonic acid poly acrylic acid PAH PAA . In certain embodiments the pair of weak polyelectrolytes used in the practice of the present invention contains linear polyethylenimine LPEI 25 000 M that is widely accepted as a biocompatible positively charged polyelectrolyte and polyacrylic acid PAA 90 000 M for the anionic counter ion. The present Applicants have shown that the LPEI PAA pair is a strong candidate for the interdiffusion behavior and also shows good film processibility owing to its ultraflat surface roughness during deposition mean roughness less than 1 nm see Example 1 .

In certain embodiments the pair of weak polyelectrolytes is selected such that there is a large difference between the pKvalues of the positively charged polyelectrolyte and the negatively charged polyelectrolyte. In other embodiments the pair of weak polyelectrolytes is selected such that there is a small difference between the pKvalues of the positively charged polyelectrolyte and the negatively charged polyelectrolyte.

The molecular weight number average of synthetic polyelectrolyte molecules suitable for use in the practice of the present invention is typically about 1 000 to about 5 000 000 grams mole preferably about 10 000 to about 1 000 000 grams mole. The oppositely charged polyelectrolytes used in the formation of the multilayer film according to the present invention may have similar molecular weights. Alternatively the positively charged polyelectrolyte may have a molecular weight that is higher or lower than the molecular weight of the negatively charged polyelectrolyte. In embodiments where the LPEI PAA pair is used the positively charged polylectrolyte has a molecular weight that is about 3.5 times than the molecular weight of the anionic counter ion.

In certain preferred embodiments one of the pair of polyelectrolyte molecules e.g. the positively charged polyelectrolyte if the biomacromolecule is negatively charged has a molecular weight that enhances promotes or otherwise allows mobility interdiffusion of the polyelectrolyte within the PEM thus allowing the spontaneous ordering process of the biomacromolecule during assembly. As shown by the Applicants see Example 1 a polyelectrolyte with a high molecular weight will have a reduced mobility compared to a lower molecular weight polyelectrolyte.

In certain embodiments the two weak polyelectrolytes are selected such that one of the polyelectrolytes exhibits preferential charge binding with the oppositely charged polyelectrolyte of the pair as opposed to the charged biomacromolecules. Thus the two weak polyelectrolytes may be selected such that their surface charge densities are similar to each other but different from e.g. lower or higher than the surface charge density of the biomacromolecule. According to the present invention this mismatch in charge distribution between the positively charge polyelectrolyte and the negatively charged biomacromolecule results in competitive exchange of the biomacromolecule with the negatively charged polyelectrolyte which increases the surface concentration of the biomacromolecule see below . In preferred embodiments the surface charge density of the polyelectrolytes is higher than the surface charge density of the biomacromolecule. For example the surface charge density of the polyelectrolytes may be 2 fold higher than the surface charge density of the biomacromolecule at least about 2 fold higher at least about 3 fold higher at least about 4 fold higher or more than 4 fold higher.

In certain embodiments one or both oppositely charged polyelectrolytes is are non degradable. Examples of non degradable polyelectrolytes include but are not limited to poly styrene sulfonate SPS poly acrylic acid PAA linear poly ethylene imine LPEI poly diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride PDAC and poly allylamine hydrochloride PAH .

In certain embodiments one or both oppositely charged polyelectrolytes is are biocompatible. In certain embodiments one or both oppositely charged polyelectrolytes is are degradable e.g. hydrolytically degradable biodegradable thermally degradable and photolytically degradable . Hydrolytically degradable polymers known in the art include for example certain polyesters polyanhydrides polyorthoesters polyphosphazenes and polyphosphoesters. Biodegradable polymers known in the art include for example polyhydroxyacids polypropylfumerates polycaprolactones polyamides poly amino acids polyacetals polyethers biodegradable polycyanoacrylates and biodegradable polyurethanes. Specific examples of biodegradable polymers include polylysine poly lactic acid PLA poly glycolic acid PGA poly caprolactone PCL poly lactide co glycolide PLG poly lactide co caprolactone PLC and poly glycolide co caprolactone PGC .

Methods of preparation of constructs of the present invention involve using the electrostatic layer by layer LBL assembly technique an or polyelectrolyte multilayer films prepared by LBL assembly. Polyelectrolyte multilayer formation using LBL proceeds by sequential addition of polycations and polyanions. Upon addition of a polycation to a negatively charged surface the polycation deposits on the surface forming a thin polymer layer and reversing the surface charge. Similarly a polyanion deposited on a positively charged surface forms a thin layer of polymer and leaves a negatively charged surface. Alternating exposure to polycations and polyanions generate polyelectrolyte thin multilayer nanostructures with a surface charge determined by the last polylectrolyte added Decher et al. Thin Solid Films 1992 210 831 835 G. Decher Science 1997 277 1232 1237 F. Caruso et al. Science 1998 282 1111 1114 and Z. Tang et al. Nature Mater. 2003 2 413 418 . As already mentioned above polyelectrolyte multilayer systems obtained using the conventional LBL assembly technique are generally considered random kinetically frozen networks in which the mobility of polymer chains is significantly limited. Adsorption of a charged virus i.e. biomacromolecule monolayer within such systems would only generate irreversible charge binding and lead to a randomly stacked virus layer see for example .

The present invention is directed to an improved strategy for electrostatically mediated self assembly of charged macromolecules. In this strategy electrostatic charge exchange and interlinking between small charged molecules i.e. polyelectrolytes in medium hereafter called interdiffusion induces the dynamic mobility of large macromolecules e.g. biomacromolecules and then leads the segregation of macromolecule with the medium and finally completes the monolayer assembly on the surface. Based on the understanding of enhanced mobility of macromolecules by charged medium the present invention provides two methods of monolayer formation technique one is an indirect method of assembly from layered mixture to phase separated monolayer and the other is a direct assembly on the charged surface. The methods of the present invention allow the control of assembly density and directionality while maintaining the stability and functionality of the resulting thin film.

Compared to other kinds of electrostatic interactions based assembly techniques that only use the static charged binding the inventive methods use the dynamic electrostaticity as a driving force that is induced by interdiffusion between charged species. Additionally unlike the electrophoresis technique that uses external electrostaticity to drive the separation of charged mixtures the segregation of macromolecule with medium and further monolayer assembly according to the present invention are progressed spontaneously and internally regulated without any external electrostatic source. According to the present invention the construction of a quantitatively scalable and functionally controllable macromolecular monolayer surface and its assembly properties can be easily tuned by varying the environmental electrostatic condition of charged species.

The use of polymer polyelectrolyte of small body polymer biomacromolecule of large body interface in the inventive methods offers many advantages over the air water interface of Langmuir Blodgett monolayer LBM assembly technique. In particular in the inventive methods there is no need of attaching a specific functionality for hydrophobicity or separability and the polymer polymer interface can be easily manipulated by intrinsic charge properties of constituents. Furthermore by modulating the functionality of polyelectrolytes it is possible to achieve multicomponent monolayer stacking for a hierarchical structure. The ability of generating monolayer of inorganic nanowires in a quantitative and uniform way on a large area scale without any treatment or transfer process will be particularly useful in the fabrication of nanodevices

The first inventive method comprises steps of providing a plurality of negatively charged biomacromolecules providing a polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film produced by layer by layer assembly using a weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and a weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte wherein the surface of the film is positively charged contacting the surface of the film with the biomacromolecules to obtain a thin film comprising biomacromolecules electrostatically bound to its surface and forming on top of the obtained thin film a second polyelectrolyte multilayer by layer by layer assembly using the weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and the weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte.

A scheme showing an embodiment of this first method of self assembly is presented on . This scheme shows the formation of a monolayer of M13 virus on a thin film of LPEI PAA linear polyethylenimine polyacrylic acid multilayer. First negatively charged M13 viruses are electrostatically bound to a thin layer of positively charged top surface of LPEI PAA multilayer prepared from layer by layer deposition technique e.g. on a silicon or glass substrate step on . Further deposition of LPEI PAA on the existing virus layer and their reversible weak electrostatic binding induces the interdiffusion between virus particles and PEM and brings about viruses floating on the surface step on . Finally virus particles floating on the surface are spontaneously reordered to closely packed viral monolayer due to their repulsive liquid crystalline behavior step on .

The ordering of floating viruses is entropically driven and electrostatically regulated. Generally in solution of high concentrated viruses liquid crystalline ordering such as smectic or nematic phase is induced by the entropic excluded volume depletion effect because the interparticle potential is dominated only by steric hard rod repulsion . However in the present case electrostatic interaction between viruses and PEM additionally contributes to the entropic ordering process by compensating the overall repulsive charge between viruses. To maximize the entropy of virus and the electrostatic linking with underlying PEM consequently the system spontaneously selects non overlapped monolayer structure as optimized ordering phase.

As used herein the term polyelectrolyte multilayer film refers to a film having at least one bilayer deposited material wherein the term bilayer refers to a structure comprising one layer of a positively charged polyelectrolyte and one layer of a negatively charged polyelectrolyte.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film has a thickness of less than about 50 nm e.g. less than about 40 nm less than about 30 nm less than about 20 nm or less than about 10 nm. In some embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film has a thickness of about 10 nm or less than 10 nm e.g. 9 nm 8 nm 7 nm 6 nm 5 nm 4 nm or less than 4 nm. In some embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film has a thickness that is in the same order of magnitude than the thickness of the elongated biomacromolecule. Thus in embodiments wherein M13 viruses are used thickness of about 7 nm the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film has preferably a thickness of less than about 10 nm.

Alternatively or additionally the thickness of the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film may be described in terms of number of bilayers. In certain embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film comprises less than 6 bilayers e.g. 5.5 bilayers 4.5 bilayers 3.5 bilayers 2.5 bilayers or 1.5 bilayers.

Forming a second polyelectrolyte multilayer by layer by layer assembly using the weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and the weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte on top of the thin film comprising biomacromolecules electrostatically bound to its surface comprises steps of contacting the surface of this thin film with the weak positively charged polyelectrolyte contacting the film thus obtained with the weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte and repeating these steps one or more times. Generally the weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and the weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte are each in an aqueous solution. Contacting may be performed by depositing the solution of one polyelectrolyte on the surface of the film or by dipping the film into the polyelectrolyte solution.

In certain embodiments the second polyelectrolyte multilayer is prepared under conditions similar to those used in the preparation of the polyelectrolyte multilayer thin film e.g. substantially identical concentrations of weak negatively charged and weak positively charged polyelectrolytes substantially identical pH values of the aqueous solutions of polyelectrolytes substantially identical temperature etc . In other embodiments a different set of conditions is used in the preparation of the second polyelectrolyte multilayer.

In certain embodiments the second polyelectrolyte multilayer has a thickness of less than about 20 nm e.g. less than about 15 nm less than about 10 nm or less than about 5 nm. For example the second polyelectrolyte multilayer has a thickness of 12 nm 11 nm 10 nm 9 nm 8 nm 7 nm or less than 7 nm. In certain embodiments the second polyelectrolyte multilayer comprises less than 6 bilayers e.g. 5.5 bilayers 4.5 bilayers 3.5 bilayers 2.5 bilayers or 1.5 bilayers.

The second method of the present invention comprises steps of providing a plurality of negatively charged biomacromolecules providing a polyelectrolyte multilayer film produced by layer by layer assembly using a weak positively charged polyelectrolyte and a weak negatively charged polyelectrolyte wherein the film is thick and the surface of the film is positively charged and contacting the surface of the thin with the biomacromolecules.

A scheme showing an embodiment of this second method of self assembly is presented on . This scheme shows the formation of a monolayer of M13 virus on a thick film of LPEI PAA linear polyethylenimine polyacrylic acid multilayer. For a monolayer formation in a direct way relatively thick layers of LPEI PAA are deposited on the substrate and then the negatively charged M13 virus is simply applied on the positively charged surface. In this method entropic positional selection of M13 viruses dominates the ordering process which leads to the formation of close packed virus monolayer on PEM surface that is the same than . What makes this simplified procedure possible is the thickness of the underlying PEM layer. As mentioned above achieving mobility of the macromolecules is the key to monolayer assembly. In the inventive indirect assembly method several layers of underlying LPEI PAA can only generate a thin PEM medium less than 10 nm for virus attachment. In that case thickness is comparable to the dimensions of the virus 7 nm thick which makes it difficult to provide enough mobility to the virus for a monolayer formation. However in the inventive direct assembly method initially thick bilayers of LPEI PAA thicker than 50 nm can generate an enhanced interdiffusion in PEM and provide a full mobility to the virus.

Thus in preferred embodiments of the present invention the polyelectrolyte multilayer film has a thickness of more than 50 nm e.g. at least 50 nm at least 60 nm at least 70 nm at least 80 nm at least 90 nm at least 100 nm or more than 100 nm e.g. 150 nm 200 nm 250 nm 300 nm 500 nm 750 nm or 1 m.

Alternatively or additionally the thickness of the polyelectrolyte multilayer thick film may be described in terms of number of bilayers. In certain embodiments the polyelectrolyte multilayer thick film comprises more than 6 bilayers e.g. 6.5 bilayers 7.5 bilayers 8.5 bilayers 9.5 bilayers 10.5 bilayers 11.5 bilayers 12.5 bilayers 13.5 bilayers 14.5 bilayers 15.5 bilayers 16.5 bilayers 17.5 bilayers or more.

The starting polyelectrolyte multilayer film in the direct and indirect methods of self assembly of the present invention is generally deposited on a substrate. Substrates can be two or three dimensional and can comprise a planar surface or can be shaped. A variety of materials can be used as substrates including but not limited to metals e.g. gold silver platinum and aluminum metal coated materials metal oxides plastics ceramics silicon glasses mica graphite hydrogels and polymers such as polyamides polyphosphazenes polypropylfumarates polyethers polyacetals polycyanoacrylates polyurethanes polycarbonates polyanhydrides polyorthoesters polyhydroxyacids polyacrylates ethylene vinyl acetate polymers and other cellulose acetates polystyrenes poly vinyl chloride poly vinyl fluoride poly vinyl imidazole poly vinyl alcohol poly ethylene terephthalate polyesters polyureas polypropylene polymethacrylate polyethylene poly ethylene oxide s and chlorosulphonated polyolefins and combinations thereof. For example a substrate of one material may be coated with a second material or two materials may be combined to form a composite.

The polyelectrolyte multilayer film may cover the whole surface of the substrate or alternatively the polyelectrolyte multilayer film may cover only a region of the substrate.

As will be apparent to one skilled in the art using methods provided herein numbers of biomacromolecule monolayers and polyelectrolyte multilayers can be stacked alternatively.

In the methods of the present invention the step of contacting the surface of the polyelectrolyte multilayer film with a plurality of negatively charged biomacromolecules is carried out by depositing an aqueous solution of biomacromolecules to the surface. Assembly density may be controlled by varying the pH of the aqueous solution of biomacromolecules.

For example the M13 virus has an intrinsic negative charge which leads to mutual repulsion in solution this electrostaticity may be modulated by varying the pH of the solution. Zeta potential measurements of M13 virus as presented on have showed that there is a dramatic potential change in function of pH in the range between pH 4 and pH 6. The M13 virus has a slight positive charge around pH 4 becomes negatively charged above pH 4.3 and the change in the zeta potential increases rapidly until pH 5.3. Above pH 5.3 the zeta potential increases very slowly and nearly saturates. This potential change readily affects the monolayer assembly in its packing density. As the virus is more highly charged the repulsion between viruses gets much stronger which leads to a wider spacing between them in the self assembly monolayer. A series of AFM images of M13 virus assembly presented on show that assembly density can be controlled by varying the pH

Virus has a slight positive charge around pH 4.0 but is switched to negative above pH 4.3 and rapidly charged to strong until pH 5.3. Above that value zeta potential increases very slowly and nearly saturates. This potential change readily affects the monolayer assembly of M13 virus in its packing density. As the virus is more highly charged the repulsion between viruses gets much stronger which leads to a wider spacing between them. A series of AFM images of virus assembly from shows that assembly density can be controlled by varying the pH in the range from 4.8 to 5.5 to obtain assembly densities ranging from 1 to 100 viruses m.

Accordingly in certain embodiments the pH of the aqueous solution of the negatively charged biomacromolecules is selected such that strong repulsion takes place between the negatively charged biomacromolecules. In such embodiments a sparse monolayer of biomacromolecules is obtained. In other embodiments the pH of the aqueous solution of the negatively charged biomacromolecules is selected such that weak repulsion takes place between the negatively charged biomacromolecules. In such embodiments a dense and highly ordered monolayer of biomacromolecule is obtained. It is within the skill in the art to select a pH for a given biomacromolecule to modulate the degree of electrostatic repulsion between the molecules. In the case of the direct method of self assembly the pH of the aqueous solutions of the negatively charged polyelectrolyte and or of the positively charged polyelectrolyte may identical to the pH of the aqueous solution of biomacromolecules.

Alternatively or additionally the biomacromolecules may be genetically engineered to manipulate e.g. increase or decrease the surface charge density of the biomacromolecule. Increased surface charge density leads to increased repulsion between the biomacromolecules and therefore sparse monolayer formation while decreased surface charge density leads to decreased repulsion and therefore dense monolayer formation.

Mobility of biomacromolecules is also affected by temperature as diffusion is a thermally activated process. Furthermore the ordering of a monolayer is driven entropically by the exclusion of volume. Therefore the ordering factor and assembly density is dependent on temperature. Higher temperature provides more driving force resulting in highly ordered and dense monolayer.

Accordingly in certain embodiments the method of self assembly is performed at a temperature that increases the electrostatic repulsion of the negatively charged biomacromolecules. In such embodiments a sparse monolayer of biomacromolecules is obtained. In other embodiments the method of self assembly is performed at a temperature that decreases the electrostatic repulsion of the negatively charged biomacromolecules. In such embodiments a dense monolayer of biomacromolecules is obtained. The dimension of the ordering is not limited. Depending on the substrate it can reach a few meters.

Another aspect of controllability for the formation of biomacromolecule monolayer is a directional ordering. Directionality can be realized by flowing the biomacromolecule solution in a microfluidic channel. Such a microfluidic channel has been used in the formation of a M13 virus monolayer. As shown on directionally ordered virus monolayer of nematic phase was obtained.

As already mentioned above further mineralization and nanoparticle binding from a two dimensionally ordered biomacromolecule scaffold prepared according to methods of the present invention enables the assembly of dense highly ordered and nanostrutured hybrid monolayer.

As already mentioned above functional thin films prepared according to the present invention can be used in many different commercial applications some of which are noted above including the cited patents patent applications and references. The functional thin films can be used for example in applications requiring electrical conductivity or semi conductivity at the nanoscale. The large surface area to volume ratio of the inventive systems is advantageous for applications such as fuel cells thin film batteries and supercapacitors. As already mentioned the surface of the thin film can be modified doped or otherwise modified in its material structure for the application. Microcircuitry nanocircuitry macroelectronics photovoltaics solar cells chemical and biological sensors optical components field emitting tips and devices nanocomputing nanoswitches molecular wire crossbars batteries fuel cells catalysts very large flat panel displays tiny radio frequency identification devices smart cards phased array RF antennas disposable computing and storage electronics nanoscale bar codes cross bar nanostructures biosensor arrays high density data storage field effect transistors and the like are representative examples of applications for the nanowires. Particularly important semiconductive elements include for example p n diodes p i n diodes LEDs and bipolar transistors. Thin films can be incorporated into a number of devices such as electronic optoelectronic electrochemical and electromechanical devices.

Additional applications of the inventive functional thin films will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art.

The following examples describe some of the preferred modes of making and practicing the present invention. However it should be understood that these examples are for illustrative purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Furthermore unless the description in an Example is presented in the past tense the text like the rest of the specification is not intended to suggest that experiments were actually performed or data were actually obtained.

Some of the results presented in this section have been described by the Applicants in recent scientific publications P. L. Yoo et al. Nature Mater. 2006 5 234 240 K. T. Nam et al. Science 2006 312 885 888 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Electrostatic interactions of repulsion and attraction that are ubiquitous in nature can be used to induce molecular mobility for ordering of nanoscopic to macroscopic systems exemplified by separations as demonstrated in electrophoresis or organization as in biomolecular self assembly. In the present study electrostatically induced interdiffusion between weakly charged polyelectrolytes drives the separation and two dimensional 2D liquid crystal ordering of virus particles M13 viruses during alternating electrostatic assembly with complementary polyelectrolytes. In addition because the genome of the M13 virus is easy to manipulate the virus can be coded to grow and assemble specific inorganic materials thus forming an ordered array of self assembling nanowires.

The electrostatic layer by layer LBL assembly technique allows the adsorption of multiply charged species to create nanometer scale films that form an effective ionically crosslinked network G. Decher Science 1997 277 1232 1237 F. Caruso et al. Science 1998 282 1111 1114 and Z. Tang et al. Nature Mater. 2003 2 413 418 . The use of the LBL technique enables the creation of ultrathin functional films and highly tunable surfaces through the control of electrostatic interactions the assembly process has the added advantage of strong compatibility with biomolecular species without loss of biological function. The Applicants chose this assembly process as a mean of incorporating genetically engineered M13 virus particles to create cohesive thin films thus allowing the coupling of virus functionality and thin film characteristics such as conductivity electrochemistry and biodegradability depending on the choice of polyion P. T. Hammond Adv. Mater. 2004 16 1271 1293 . Although such multilayer systems are generally considered random kinetically frozen networks the complete rearrangement of the films examined here can be induced through interdiffusion of polyelectrolytes during adsorption. Remarkably the competitive interdiffusion that usually leads to disorder and disruption in electrostatically assembled thin films is harnessed to achieve spontaneous ordering of virus particles during the assembly process this finding is particularly surprising given the high molecular weight nature of the M13 viral macromolecule about 14 000 000 M .

Linear polyethylenimine LPEI 25 000 M which is widely accepted as a biocompatible polymer C. S. De Smedt et al. Pharm. Res. 2000 17 113 126 was used as the polycationic building block and anionic polyacrylic acid PAA 90 000 M was used as a counter ion D. M. DeLongchamp and P. T. Hammond Chem. Mater. 2003 15 1165 1173 . Investigations have revealed that reversible interdiffusion can take place within LBL assemblies consisting of certain pairs of weak polyelectrolytes such multilayers typically show the characteristic of superlinear growth C. Picart et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2002 99 12531 12535 P. Lavalle et al. Macromolecules 2002 35 4458 4465 . The present Applicants have found that the LPEI PAA polyelectrolyte pair was a strong candidate for this interdiffusion behavior and also showed good film processibility owing to its ultraflat surface roughness during deposition mean roughness less than 1 nm .

The M13 virus is a filamentous and negatively charged virus M. Adams et al. Nature 1998 Nature 393 349 352 . The inherent monodispersity and anisotropic nature of the M13 virus inspired the Applicants to extend their successful realization of a three dimensional liquid crystal solution at high concentration to a large area 2D thin film surface assembly. In addition the different locations of proteins pIII and pVIII coat on viruses and programmable protein functionalities by genetic engineering make viral systems an attractive toolkit for synthesis and assembly of nanoparticles and nanowires S. W. Lee et al. Science 2002 296 892 895 C. Mao et al. Science 2004 303 213 217 . In particular the advances in modifying the major coat protein of the virus facilitate peptide interactions with inorganic ions for further biomineralization as well as the control of the surface charge density of the virus Y. Huang et al. Nano Lett. 2005 5 1429 1434 .

Layer by Layer LBL Film Assembly. LPEI 25 000 Mand 250 000 M Polysciences and PAA 90 000 M 25 aqueous solution Polysciences were used as received and prepared as 0.02 M solutions based on the repeat unit molecular weight in Milli Q water. The pH of the LPEI and PAA solutions of weakly charged polyelectrolytes were adjusted to 5.0. LPEI PAA multilayer thin films were made by the conventional LBL method by using an HMS programmable slide stainer Zeiss . In a typical film assembly 3.5 5.5 bilayers of LPEI PAA were applied on the silicon substrate. In order to make a free standing film 80.5 100.5 bilayers of LPEI PAA were prepared on the Teflon AF DuPont coated silicon substrate.

M13 Virus Assembly. The viruses were placed in water to give a diluted concentration 10phages mL and the solution pH was adjusted by adding 0.01 M HCl or 0.01 M NaOH. Then 1 mL of the virus solution was dropped on the prepared LBL films of LPEI PAA 2 cm 4 cm . After incubation for 30 minutes the virus assembled film was rinsed with Milli Q water and dried by blowing with nitrogen.

M13 Virus Engineering. A pVIII library was constructed by fusing eight random amino acids into the N terminus of all the 2 700 copies of the pVIII proteins. It provided a random population of 10 10. Through the use of a general biopanning technique by exposing the pVIII libraries to GaN the peptide sequences that have a binding affinity for GaN were evolved and identified. After each round of selection and washing the tightly bound phage clones were eluted with low pH and amplified using bacterial medium strain ER2738 New England Biolabs .

Surface Characterization. The virus ordered surface was characterized with AFM Digital Instruments Dimension 3100 in tapping mode at an amplitude set point of 0.8 V under dry conditions. In order to obtain high resolution images supersharp silicon probes Pacific Nanotechnology SSS NCH were used to capture the image. Height and phase images were taken at scanning rates of approximately 1.5 Hz.

The interdiffusion induced viral assembly process is schematically depicted in . Negatively charged M13 viruses were randomly deposited on the positively charged top surface of very thin LPEI PAA multilayers less than 10 nm by electrostatic interactions step . The PAA which has stronger electrostatic interactions with LPEI competes with the virus macromolecule driving a separation process that forces the virus to the surface step . Finally mutually repulsive interactions due to the liquid crystalline behavior between virus molecules induce a spontaneous ordering process on the surface that results in an ordered viral monolayer structure step . Some aspects of this process have analogies interestingly to Langmuir Blodgett assembly techniques which are driven by hydrophobic interactions D. Whang et al. Nano Lett. 2003 3 1255 1259 P. Yang Nature 2003 425 243 244 . However the use of the polyelectrolyte biomacromolecule interface used in the present study offers many advantages over techniques exploiting air water interfaces. In particular because the viruses are easily manipulated at the DNA level to produce the desired chemical functionality there is no need to attach a specific functionality for hydrophobicity charge or segregation. Simple modifications in the DNA sequence allows to manipulate the intrinsic charge properties of the constituents which yields an additional degree of tunability in this system. In addition the LBL adsorption process has been shown to be easily scalable up to meter length scales in contrast to the more difficult manipulation of materials at liquid air interfaces. In conventional polyelectrolyte multilayer PEM systems strong charge binding between ion pairs yields an ionically crosslinked network in which the mobility of polymer chains is significantly limited in such cases the intermixing or diffusion of polyions C. Picard et al. Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2002 99 12531 12535 within the interior of the PEM film during multilayer construction is not facilitated. Adsorption of a charged virus monolayer within such a system would only generate irreversible charge binding and lead to a randomly stacked virus layer . When one of the polyelectrolytes is able to interdiffuse into the multilayer however it is possible to unlock these electrostatic cross links through competitive interactions.

To investigate this interdiffusion and ordering process the present Applicants have monitored the buildup process for a series of polyelectrolytes atop an already adsorbed viral stack . A thin base polyelectrolyte multilayer less than 5 nm thick was first deposited onto a silicon substrate onto this multilayer viruses were directly adsorbed from a dilute buffer solution. Finally LPEI and PAA were alternately adsorbed on top of the viral layer using the same adsorption conditions as for the base layer and the topography of the thin film was monitored systematically with increasing deposition number using tapping mode atomic force microscopy AFM . It is clear that the originally adsorbed viral layer is highly disordered . When the first LPEI layer is deposited atop these viruses it appears that some of the viruses are able to diffuse to the surface through the top LPEI layer . In contrast counter ionic PAA deposition completely blankets the virus particles resulting in a structure in which the viruses are buried under the surface . This process implies that LPEI plays a key role in driving the interdiffusion. It appears that it diffuses underneath the virus layer and into the multilayer matrix during LPEI deposition and diffuses outwards to the overlying virus covered surface layer hence forming globular complexes with PAA during PAA deposition from solution. Accordingly when LPEI is once again adsorbed interdiffusion and complexation exchange processes between LPEI and PAA chains both at the surface and throughout the interior of the film take place leading to the freeing of more viral particles from the original adsorbed layer within the film. This alternating process of preferential complexation displacement of viruses and repeated deposition of polyelectrolyte increases the surface concentration of the virus driven by competitive electrostatic interactions . Interestingly after each deposition the number of floating viruses freed from the PEM matrix and accumulated at the surface is increased and the size of the PAA globules becomes larger after each PAA adsorption step because the number of free chains of LPEI that can participate in the interdiffusion process increases yielding an exponentially growing thin film P. Lavalle et al. Macromolecules 2002 35 4458 4465 . Finally after deposition of additional layers the viruses form a close packed monolayer .

Stepwise AFM observations indicate that LPEI is the mobile species within the film that drives the interdiffusion through its preferential binding with PAA compared with the virus coat. More importantly it enables the direct visualization of the interdiffusion process within the PEM down to the nanometer thickness regime. In this case the viruses act as effective tagging agents which can be compared to the conventional fluorescence labelling and confocal microscopy technique relevant to micrometer scale systems C. Picard et al. Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2002 99 12531 12535 . In separate ongoing work the present Applicants have shown using dye conjugated LPEI that LPEI can undergo interdiffusion during the adsorption process in the construction of LPEI PAA multilayer thin films. The reasons for preferential charge binding with PAA as opposed to the negatively charged viral coats might be considered due to differences in charge density and chain conformation. At approximately pH 5 the charge density of the capsid body of the M13 virus 1 1.5 e per subunit where e is an electron K. R. Purdy and S. Fraden Phys. Rev. 2004 E70 061703 K Zimmermann et al. J. Biol. Chem. 1996 261 1653 1655 is lower than the surface charge density of LPEI 3 4 e nm R. Meszaros et al. Langmuir 2002 18 6164 6169 . This mismatch in charge distribution between LPEI and the virus molecules as well as steric constraints introduced by the rigidity of the virus that restrict the ability to maximize charge charge contacts result in competitive exchange of the virus with PAA. To test the concept of LPEI as the mobile species and to examine the impact of molecular chain size on interdiffusion based on polymer dynamics using the generalized reptative polymer chain model T. P. Russell et al. Nature 1993 365 235 237 the Applicants replace the LPEI used in the above experiments with LPEI with a molecular weight ten times higher 250 000 M . The reduced mobility of the larger molecular weight LPEI species resulted in the effective blocking of chain interdiffusion by LPEI within the PEM and thus the virus could not effectively undergo the spontaneous ordering process during assembly.

The mesophase ordering of the viruses at the top surface is entropically driven and electrostatically regulated. Generally in solutions of highly concentrated viruses liquid crystalline ordering such as smectic or nematic phases are induced by the entropic excluded volume depletion effect because the interparticle potential is dominated only by steric hard rod repulsion M. Adams et al. Nature 1998 393 349 352 J. Herzfeld Acc. Chem. Res. 1996 29 31 37 Z. Dogic and S. Fraden Phys. Rev. Lett. 1997 78 2417 2420 . However in the present case electrostatic interactions between the viruses and the PEM polyelectrolyte multilayer also contribute to the entropic ordering process by compensating or shielding the overall repulsive charge between viruses. Similar ordering processes for charged species were reported experimentally in the ordered complexation of DNA liposome systems by X ray scattering analysis J. O. Radler et al. Science 1997 275 810 814 and theoretically in the responsive liquid crystal behavior of actin filaments in the cytoskeleton I. Borukhov et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2005 102 3673 3678 . To maximize the entropic state of the viruses and their electrostatic attractions with the underlying PEM the virus molecules arrange in non overlapping close packed monolayer structures with optimized order. The random initiation and non directional propagation of ordering ultimately leaves topological defects and H. R. Brand et al. Macromolecules 1992 25 7223 7226 . The typical singularity defects of liquid crystal disclinations were observed Mobius defects of strength s and spiral defects of s 1. The removal of these ordering defects and unidirectional orientation of the viruses by application of an external shear force is also being investigated. The major coat protein sequence pVIII of the virus and the pH of the virus solution can manipulate the surface charge of M13 virus determining the assembly behavior. Marked potential changes of the virus within a narrow pH region enable to control the initial number of disordered adsorbed viruses which results in final ordering densities ranging from 1 to 100 viruses m . Inorganic crystal nucleation or nanoparticle binding from the two dimensionally ordered virus scaffold enables the assembly of dense highly ordered and nanostructured hybrid monolayers even on free standing polymer films which is a prerequisite for the realization of practical devices in nano electronics magnetics and optics.

To illustrate the versatility of this system the Applicants have assembled nanowire monolayers that were composed of a noble metal a transition metal and semiconductor material. Three strategies were used for the formation of these nanowire arrays. The first was utilization of the electrostatic interactions for binding cationic nanoparticles to a negatively charged virus layer. The second involved peptide mediated biomineralization of metal ions. The third involved phage selected from a 100 display library for a peptide sequence on the viral coat that was specific to bind to GaN. So far biomolecular scaffolds such as DNA lipids and proteins have been used to fabricate nanowires or arrays of nanoparticles M. G. Warner et al. Nature Mater. 2003 2 272 277 S. Mann et al. Science 1993 261 1286 1292 M. M. Murr and D. E. Morse Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2005 102 11657 11662 which act as individual building blocks. However the potential of these systems is limited in part owing to difficulties in organizing the individual blocks over large length scales and limitations in the variety of inorganic materials that can be used.

An advantage of this method is that it can provide a tool for the construction of quantitatively scalable and functionally controllable biomolecular surfaces on this flexible polymer film. The film thickness can be varied for example from 10 nm to tens of micrometers. In addition the polyelectrolyte multilayer film can be doped with a broad range of materials from conducting and redox active polymers to biologically compatible materials. The flexibility variety of inorganic materials that can grow and the low cost of synthesis and assembly of these materials systems will enable many potential technological applications including chemical and biological sensors power devices and catalytic reactive membranes. Applications that the present Applicants are currently investigating include the synthesis and assembly of thin film electrode materials on ionically conductive multilayers to construct light weight flexible lithium batteries solar cells and light emitting diodes.

There is an increasing need for smaller and flexible Li ion batteries and for methods to assemble battery materials. Nanoparticles nanotubes A. S. Claye et al. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2000 147 2845 J. S. Sakamoto and B. Dunn J. Electrochem. Soc. 2002 149 A26 and nanowires A. R. Armstrong et al. Adv. Mater. 2005 17 862 as well as several assembly methods using lithography block copolymer S. C. Mui et al. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2002 149 A1610 or layer by layer deposition T. Cassagneau and J. H. Fendler Adv. Mater. 1998 10 877 have been introduced for constructing dimensionally small batteries. In addition to their utility in nanoelectronics there is also growing evidence that nanostructured materials can improve the electrochemical properties of Li ion batteries compared to their bulk counterparts A. S. Arico et al. Nature Mater. 2005 4 366 . However in order to attain this maximum potential monodisperse homogeneous nanomaterials and hierarchical organization control are needed. Bio systems inherently have the molecular recognition and the capability of self assembly thus are attractive template for constructing and organizing the nanostructure S. Mann Oxford University Press New York 2001 A. M. Belcher et al. Nature 1996 381 56 M. M. Murr and D. E. Morse Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2005 102 11657 N. C. Seeman Nature 2003 421 427 S. Brown Nat. Biotechnol. 1997 15 269 T. Douglas and M. Young Nature 1998 393 152 and S Zhang Nat. Biotechnol. 2003 21 1171 . The Applicants have previously used viruses to assemble semiconductor and magnetic nanowires C. Mao et al. Science 2004 303 213 C. Mao et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 203 100 6946 and consider whether they can be used for device fabrication. Using batteries as example device the present Applicants have explored whether the viruses can be modified to improve the electrode materials. As the viruses can assemble on multiple length scales there may be scope for designing hierarchical self assembling batteries. For this biological approach once the genes are programmed for a functional device very little past synthesis processing is necessary. Additionally this biological route uses room temperature aqueous synthesis conditions.

Predictive based design was used for engineering the virus to satisfy the multifunctional purpose of electrode formation and assembly with a polymer electrolyte for the Li ion battery . Tetra glutamate EEEE was fused to the N terminus of each copy of the major coat pVIII protein with one hundred percent expression. This clone named E4 clone was designed with three distinct purposes. First it can serve as a general template for growing nanowires through the interaction of the glutamate with various metal ions Virus Biotemplating in . Carboxylic acid the side chain of glutamate binds positive metal ions via ion exchange as demonstrated in polymeric templates S. Joly et al. Langmuir 2000 16 1354 . Glutamate is also believed to be important in biomineralization as evident in its role in specific proteins that regulate the nucleation of biomaterials in nature. Second tetra glutamate acts as a blocking motif for gold nanoparticles B. R. Peelle et al. Langmuir 2005 21 6929 due to the electrostatic repulsion. Therefore tetra glutamate reduces non specific gold nanoparticle binding to phage thereby increasing the specificity of a gold specific peptide to bind gold in low concentration. Lastly the E4 clone is ideally suited for electrostatically driven assembly with a charged polymer Assembly Engineering in . E4 is more negatively charged than wild type virus enabling a favorable interaction with the positively charged electrolyte polymer. Zeta potential measurements of the E4 clone reveal a dramatic potential change between pH 4.5 and pH 5.5 thus enabling a certain degree of charge control.

As shown above the present Applicants have observed that negatively charged M13 viruses can form very ordered two dimensional liquid crystalline layers on top of electrostatically cohesive films of LPEI PAA. The ordering of engineered viruses is driven by competitive electrostatic interactions the interdiffusion of the polyelectrolyte and the anisotropic shape of M13 viruses. By employing this technique to spontaneously order E4 viruses and subsequently grow CoOon the virus coat proteins two dimensional organized ensembles of nanowires were produced on a 10 cm length scale . The spatial distance and ordering behavior between viral nanowires can be manipulated by controlling both surface charge and fluidic forces. Furthermore the thickness of the multilayered polymer can be varied from 10 nm to several micrometers independent of the substrate. This assembly process produced light weight flexible and transparent material substrate multilayers constructed as free standing films by a simple dipping method . This process should be scalable using roll to roll processing. Moreover the polymer electrolyte is believed to act as a solid electrolyte because of the relatively fast ionic conductivity of LPEI and PAA pairs D. M. DeLongchamp and P. T. Hammond Chem. Mater. 203 15 1165 P. T. Hammond Adv. Mater. 2004 16 1271 1293 . Thus the assembled layers comprise a negative electrode material grown upon a solid electrolyte or separator membrane. For electrochemical evaluation 100 nm of Cu which functions as a current collector was deposited by E beam evaporation on the assembled CoOnanowires polymer layer. This assembly was then tested in Swagelok cells using a Li foil negative electrode separated from the multilayer by a liquid electrolyte dipped separator To prevent the oxidation of Cu after deposition of Cu in vacuum the sample was rapidly transferred to a glove box for the assembly of the battery. In fact the contribution of CuO in charging discharging curve was not observed. The mass of cobalt oxide on the polymer is 22 g cmmeasured by ICPMS . shows the capacity for the assembled monolayer of CoOnanowires Li cell at two different charging rates. The cell was found to sustain and deliver 94 of its theoretical capacity at a rate of 1.12 C and 65 at a rate of 5.19 C demonstrating the capability for high cycling rate. The power of the cell could be increased by alternating stacks of nanowire monolayers and polymer monolayers of LPEI and PAA or other polyions. In addition Au CoOhybrid nanowires should also increase the total capacity.

The genetic approach presented for exploiting biomolecular interactions and self assembly at various length scales has technological potential in the development of electrodes for nanostructured devices. The present results demonstrate that these traditionally biological principles can be utilized for the rational design and assembly of nanoscale battery components exhibiting improved performance in properties such as specific capacity and rate capability. The genetic control in the viral synthesis of monodisperse oxide nanowires and the nanoarchitecture of hybrid nanowires can be advanced through further modification of other proteins. Heterostructured nanowires comprising anode and solid electrolyte and bio energy transducing nanowires coupled with biomolecules are currently being investigated. Moreover the self organized virus monolayers for the generation of anodic as well as cathodic materials on ionically conducting polyelectrolyte films may present potential architectures for interdigitated batteries J. W. Long et al. Chem. Rev. 2004 104 4463 . The ease of genetic modification allows for the growth and assembly of other functional nanomaterials for further application such as photovoltaic devices high surface area catalyst and supercapacitor.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the specification or practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with the true scope of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

