---

title: Bus bandwidth sharing physically remote distributed processing functional nodes coupled to passive cooling interface assembly with minimal thermal path
abstract: The distributed data handling and processing resources system of the present invention includes a) a number of data handling and processing resource nodes that collectively perform a desired data handling and processing function, each data handling and processing resource node for providing a data handling/processing subfunction; and, b) a low latency, shared bandwidth databus for interconnecting the data handling and processing resource nodes. In the least, among the data handling and processing resource nodes, is a processing unit (PU) node for providing a control and data handling/processing subfunction; and, an input/output (I/O) node for providing a data handling/processing subfunction for data collection/distribution to an external environment. The present invention preferably uses the IEEE-1394b databus due to its unique and specialized low latency, shared bandwidth characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08261044&OS=08261044&RS=08261044
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08261044
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071219
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 167 852 filed Jun. 12 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 337 255 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to the partitioning and packaging of the elements of a data handling and processing system and more particularly to a data handling and processing system using distributed data handling and processing resource elements and an interconnecting low latency network.

Data handling and processing systems are called upon to form the heart of most of today s advanced technological products. Often their components may be grouped together into convenient locations where a minimum mechanical and thermal environmental stress may be presented to the components. In such cases data handling and processing resources may be functionally and physically partitioned into modules and housed together in multiple module racks. Modules requiring communication with one another typically rely on a chassis backplane to effect such communications over the relatively short distances of several inches supported by the chassis backplane.

The increasing demands on processing throughput placed on today s systems require these systems to run at ever increasing speeds. These increasing speeds translate into increased power consumption for such modules. The modules collection together into a common chassis leads to higher power densities for the chassis with modules and increasing demands on the amount of heat required to be removed from the chassis assembly by its associated thermal designs. Often times the thermal design includes aggressive active systems to remove such heat e.g. via the use of forced air convection cooling conduction cooling through the modules to the chassis and on to the chassis baseplate and coldplate mounting surfaces which may in turn have be actively cooled by liquid cooling loops. The active cooling required for most modern systems can become a particularly costly environmental support feature for some applications such as for space applications. Every pound of weight required to create such active cooling accommodations for on board electronic processing systems can typically cost 10 000 to carry to orbit at today s launch costs. Methods that could reduce or eliminate such active cooling requirements via perhaps passive cooling methods would be especially valuable for space systems. One method which could help alleviate the active cooling requirement replacing it with a form of passive cooling would be to divide up processing resources which are normally housed together into multiple module chassis packaging them separately and providing an alternative means to communicate with one another than over the usual chassis backplane. With modules individually packaged the temperature differentials required to remove heat from a module could be reduced by reducing the length of the thermal path to an appropriate heat sink. The communication method used to interconnect modules as a substitute for the backplane of the former chassis would have to offer data transfer bandwidth addressing flexibility and time transfer latency comparable to that of a backplane. Further it would be desirable to create a scalable larger combined virtual processing capability to accommodate the total processing needs of larger systems.

Some software methods have been developed for partitioning such functions across an arbitrary network and connecting them together with a communications protocol. One such method and standard is known as the Scalable Coherent Interface and is defined by the open system standard IEEE 1596.

In a broad aspect the distributed data handling and processing resources system of the present invention includes a a number of data handling and processing resource nodes that collectively perform a desired data handling and processing function each data handling and processing resource node for providing a data handling processing subfunction and b a low latency shared bandwidth databus for interconnecting the data handling and processing resource nodes. In the least among the data handling and processing resource nodes is a processing unit PU node for providing a control and data handling processing subfunction and an input output I O node for providing a data handling processing subfunction for data collection distribution to an external environment. The present invention preferably uses the IEEE 1394b databus due to its unique and specialized low latency shared bandwidth characteristics.

The present invention allows modules to be packaged separately for easier heat removal facilitating achievement of a passive cooling objective. Those same modules may be located at more installation convenient or environmentally permissive locations anywhere served by the interconnecting databus. The use of a low latency databus in the present invention is a key enabling technology that allows the elimination of the conventional chassis backplane for intermodule communication.

The present invention is to be differentiated from the practice called distributed computing. With distributed computing a typically massive data processing task is partitioned into smaller pieces and then parceled out to a collection of processing nodes each connected to a central coordinating node. Each processing node is a smaller but complete computing system of its own consisting of modules usually communicating with one another across the backplane of their common chassis. An interconnecting databus network is used to communicate the task pieces including input data and output results between individual nodes and the central coordinating node.

The present invention is also to be distinguished from other distributed processing and data handling resource concept implementations that utilize reflective memory to effect low latency communication between processing element nodes. Reflective memory mechanizations maintain a replicated shared memory space in each on the nodes that require internode communication to one another. Any change written into the shared reflective memory portion in one node is passed on to all other nodes and therein updated. Such shared memory blocks are a relatively small e.g. 4 MByte portion of the usually addressable address space within each node. When larger address spaces must be transferred between nodes as is commonly the case the reflective memory serves in the capacity of an input output buffer with the buffer data being rewritten to other memory locations within each node. One such reflective memory system is marketed under the brand name SCRAMNet see Using SCRAMNet for Cluster Computing Early experiences by Matt Jancunski et. al. available on the Internet at http nowlab.cis.ohio state.edu projects Papers sc98.htm . The present invention does not rely on memory replication for data transfer but instead may directly address the memory space within other nodes and transport that data directly between large address spaces within each node. Such capability is provided by an appropriate addressing format within the protocol of the databus. Additionally the databus accomplishes such transfers with a time latency comparable to that achievable over conventional chassis backplanes. The present invention is also to be distinguished from a similar technology and standard which is known as the Scalable Coherent Interface or SCI see 1 Scalable Coherent Interface SCI available on the Internet at http www.oslo.sintef.no ecy projects SCI Europe sci.html and 2 SCI Connected Clusters at the LfBS available on the Internet at http www.lfbs.rwth aachen.de users joachim SCI . As defined in the first page of the Scalable Coherent Interface reference SCI is an IEEE standard which defines a protocol for remote memory access of distributed compute systems. This kind of interconnect can be sorted under the current term System Area Net SAN . Its methods are defined by the IEEE 1596 standard. It presents a software and hardware based methodology for memory access between nodes allowing them to operate cooperatively with one another as though they were a larger virtual processing machine. In this aspect the present invention provides the same capability except that the computer nodes themselves need not be complete computers themselves. The present invention does not depend upon the use of the IEEE 1596 SCI protocol elements but may for the efficiency afforded by the use of such prior art employ a subset of them in the buildup of the software drivers of the present invention. Further as stated on page 2 of the reference SCI Connected Clusters at the LfBS The communication protocol is implemented in hardware and thus operates very efficiently indicating that the SCI is implemented with specific hardware support to achieve its wide addressability low latency data passing. The present invention as will be disclosed in more detail below does not require such dedicated embedded hardware beyond that normally required for the interface to the databus itself.

Referring to the drawings and the characters of reference marked thereon illustrates a preferred embodiment of the distributed data handling and processing resources system of the present invention designated generally as . The system includes a plurality of data handling and processing resource nodes . . . that collectively perform a desired data handling and processing function. A low latency shared bandwidth databus interconnects the data handling and processing resource nodes .

Each data handling and processing resource node provides a desired data handling processing subfunction. As used herein a data handling processing subfunction means the performing coordination and controlling the flow of data through the system including if necessary conducting processing upon such data for the purpose of generating new desired outputs. In the minimum the system must include a processing unit PU node for providing a control and data handling and processing subfunction and an input output I O node for providing a data handling processing subfunction for data collection distribution to an external environment.

A control and data handling processing subfunction may include for example the processing normally provided in a conventional computer by a CPU. The PU node may comprise a variable power microprocessor such as those currently used in some space applications a low power microprocessor such as IBM s new silicon on insulator processor Intel s Tualatin or Advanced Micro Devices Athlon 4 or a microprocessor that uses voltage and clock frequency scaling to achieve variable power characteristics such as the Transmeta Corporation s Crusoe processor.

A data handling processing subfunction for an input output of node for data collection distribution may include for example remote interface units.

The low latency shared bandwidth databus preferably comprises an IEEE 1394b databus. The selection of IEEE 1394b with its efficient and prioritizable BOSS Bus Owner Supervisor Selector bus access protocol uniquely relative to other bus protocol choices provides the capability of providing data transfer latencies comparable to that of a backplane. Its improved efficiency is also notable and extremely important to achieving low latency by virtually eliminating the arbitration subaction gaps timeout periods previously used for negotiating access to the bus in earlier 1394a versions of the bus. Such performance further allows utilizing software elements of a scalable coherent interface standard as necessary or desirable without other dedicated hardware chip support as conventionally required with an SCI interface. The scalable coherent interface standard may comprise the Scalable Coherent Interface Standard IEEE 1596. The low latency shared bandwidth databus may be implemented for example as a dual redundant databus comprising two IEEE 1394b databuses. It could also be implemented as a dual redundant databus comprising a single IEEE 1394b databus configured as a dynamically reconfigurable loop to achieve fail and still operate capability. The low latency shared bandwidth databus may provide low message packet sizes to achieve low latency.

As used herein the term low in referring to the latency means a latency of less then 100 microseconds. The databus preferably has a latency of between about 0.5 to 10 microseconds.

One of the data handling and processing resource nodes preferably includes a memory node for providing a memory subfunction. The memory node may be volatile or non volatile depending on the desired application. This might include expanded memory for running large application programs which do not have sufficient room to run in the memory contained totally within the processing element modules or . Such memory modules might also contain non volatile memory storage for collecting and retaining on board vehicle health or performance data.

Other data handling and processing resource nodes may comprise special purpose data handling and processing resource nodes such as modules for providing subsystem control functions for vehicle engine valves or servos for guidance control surfaces.

The system of the present invention may include a passive cooling interface assembly for connection to a passive cooling system not shown . The passive cooling interface assembly may include for example linear or loop heat pipes with various internal phase change liquid mechanims therein or may simply be totally static thermal conduction paths fabricated from metallic cables or special thermal materials. The heat may be removed to a hardmount or via copper or a heat pipe cable removed to a more distant heat sink location. The passive cooling interface assembly is operatively associated with the data handling and processing resource nodes . It is interfaced to the nodes enclosure for transferring heat away from the enclosure.

In this preferred embodiment using the IEEE 1394b databus the data handling and processing resource nodes receive their operating power from power cables that are commingled with the databus .

The data handling and processing resource nodes may employ high power conversion efficiencies from respective power sources associated therewith. Such power sources may be for example power carried within the signal cable harness assembly or supplied separately to the unit via separate power cable harness lines. The high power conversion efficiencies may be in a range of from about 85 to 95 percent.

Preferably an application program interface API is interposed between the low latency shared bandwidth databus and a user for segmenting large messages into smaller pieces. Such an API provides the function of creating gaps within larger messages so that other messages that require low latency bus access can gain timely access to the bus without having to wait for total completion of large messages. The databus may include a large directly addressable non overlapping address space serving all of the data handling and processing resource nodes . The address space may be greater than 1 terabyte.

During the typical operation of the system of the present invention data is usually gathered by sensors external to the system and provided to the system through legacy signal input output modules . Such data is typically relayed to a processing element module or where collected data is processed by software algorithms residing in the processing elements creating a new desired output. Such output is then typically sent to its destination external to the system again via another input output module for obtaining its desired effect on the vehicle. During the course of such processing the processing element may depend on the use of the extended or mass memory module to assist the program execution or to store some of the results in non volatile memory for later use. In some cases an end effector e.g. an engine valve or actuator servo may require local support for control loop closure or signal conditioning which may be accomplished with the use of a special purpose module .

The present invention in addition to facilitating the objectives of passive cooling and more convenient installation locations also has the advantage of reducing the total weight of the system required to perform a given total data handling and processing function. This arises from the ability to discard the conventional backplane and chassis required in conventional modular avionics approaches.

The present invention is particularly adaptable for use with an avionics core processing system. One principal application for the present invention is for space vehicle applications where considerable weight savings over the conventional chassis approach may be expected. Also the use of low power techniques discussed herein will allow significant reductions in power for the total system. Lastly the potential for achieving passively cooled avionics can result in a significant weight savings associated with conventional cooling techniques used with conventional modular avionics systems. It may also be used for an avionics peripheral processing system or as a data handling system without conventional processing functions for the coordination of data flows in communications streams.

Thus while the preferred embodiments of the devices and methods have been described in reference to the environment in which they were developed they are merely illustrative of the principles of the inventions. Other embodiments and configurations may be devised without departing from the spirit of the inventions and the scope of the appended claims.

