---

title: Method and apparatus for implementing digital video modeling to generate an expected behavior model
abstract: A computer implemented method, apparatus, and computer usable program product for generating an expected behavior model. The process parses event data derived from video data to identify behavioral patterns, wherein the event data comprises metadata describing events occurring in a selected environment. The process analyzes the behavioral patterns to identify a set of expected behavioral patterns occurring in the environment, and generates the expected behavioral model using the expected behavioral patterns.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07908233&OS=07908233&RS=07908233
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07908233
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
The present invention is related to the application entitled Intelligent Surveillance System and Method for Integrated Event Based Surveillance application Ser. No. 11 455 251 filed Jun. 16 2006 assigned to a common assignee and which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to an improved data processing system and in particular to a computer implemented method and apparatus for generating data models. Still more particularly the present invention relates to a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program product for utilizing digital video modeling to generate an expected behavior model for predicting behavior at selected locations.

Behavior is any action a person or animal performs that can be observed and measured. Behavior is caused or influenced by environmental and biological variables. For example an environmental variable is a variable that include temperature changes availability of food approval of peers cultural customs or other stimuli. Biological variables are variables that affect behavior and may include for example anatomical structures and limitations normal physiological processes and anomalies in anatomy and physiology due to injury or disease.

Behavior may be viewed as an expected pattern of events. In other words the existence or change of certain variables or stimuli may generate the same behavior in most subjects. For example subjects that come into contact with a flame instinctively withdraw from the flame. This behavior may be viewed as a simple yet expected pattern of events contact with a flame results in a subsequent withdrawal.

Behavioral analysis is the study of behavior. As in other experimental sciences research is usually classified as basic or applied. In behavior analysis basic research attempts to identify principles underlying behavior change. Applied research attempts to identify effective ways of dealing with or altering behavior. The application behavior analysis is very broad ranging from assisting individuals in overcoming addictions to improving revenue in retail environments.

The process of behavioral analysis involves gathering a sufficient amount of data about environmental and or biological variables and associated behavior so that expected patterns of behavior may be identified. In most instances of behavioral analysis is performed in a controlled environment where behavioral analysts are able to focus on the effect of certain definable variables. However such a process has limited practical utility because such testing conditions almost never exist outside the controlled environment.

The observation of subjects in a natural environment as opposed to a controlled environment also has limitations in behavioral analysis. For example behavioral analysts may not be able to adequately consider or identify each and every variable that may affect a subject s behavior. Further to gather a sufficient amount of data for identifying expected behavior requires behavior analysts to spend large amounts of time observing and studying subjects interacting with their environment.

Thus the currently used methods for gathering data for use in identifying expected behavioral patterns may fail to identify a sufficient amount of information to enable a robust and accurate analysis of behavior. In addition the currently used methods may fail to identify all the possible variables that affect behavior limiting the usefulness of the results obtained.

The illustrative embodiments described herein provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program product for generating an expected behavior model. The process parses event data derived from video data to identify behavioral patterns wherein the event data comprises metadata describing events occurring in a selected environment. The process analyzes the behavioral patterns to identify a set of expected behavioral patterns occurring in the environment and generates the expected behavioral model using the expected behavioral patterns.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage . In addition clients and connect to network . Clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example. Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other computing devices not shown.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system may also be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different illustrative embodiments.

In this illustrative example network data processing system also includes retail environment . Retail environment is an environment in which customers may view select order and or purchase one or more items. Retail environment may include one or more facilities buildings or other structures for wholly or partially containing the items. A facility may include but is not limited to a grocery store a clothing store a marketplace a retail department store a convention center a superstore or any other type of structure for housing storing displaying and or selling items.

Items in retail environment may include but are not limited to comestibles clothing shoes toys cleaning products household items machines any type of manufactured items entertainment and or educational materials as well as entrance or admittance to attend or receive an educational or entertainment service activity or event. Items for purchase could also include services such as without limitation ordering dry cleaning services food delivery or any other services.

Comestibles include solid liquid and or semi solid food and beverage items. Comestibles may be but are not limited to meat products dairy products fruits vegetables bread pasta pre prepared or ready to eat items as well as unprepared or uncooked food and or beverage items. For example a comestible could include without limitation a box of cereal a steak tea bags a cup of tea that is ready to drink popcorn pizza candy or any other edible food or beverage items.

An entertainment or educational activity event or service may include but is not limited to a sporting event a music concert a seminar a convention a movie a ride a game a theatrical performance and or any other performance show or spectacle for entertainment or education of customers. For example entertainment or educational activity or event could include without limitation the purchase of seating at a football game purchase of a ride on a roller coaster purchase of a manicure or purchase of admission to view a film.

Retail environment may also include a parking facility for parking cars trucks motorcycles bicycles or other vehicles for conveying customers to and from retail environment . A parking facility may include an open air parking lot an underground parking garage an above ground parking garage an automated parking garage and or any other area designated for parking customers vehicles.

For example retail environment may be but is not limited to a grocery store a retail store a department store an indoor mall an outdoor mall a combination of indoor and outdoor retail areas a farmer s market a convention center a sports arena or stadium an airport a bus depot a train station a marina a hotel fair grounds an amusement park a water park a casino a bank a hospital and or a zoo.

Retail environment includes shelves displays racks cases refrigeration units freezer units hot boxes and other containers for storing items. Items may be displayed on shelves displays racks cases refrigeration units freezer units hot boxes and other containers as part of a marketing strategy. For example items may be placed on a display at the end of an aisle as part of a marketing strategy to increase the likelihood that a group of customers will purchase the items.

Retail environment includes retail facility . Retail facility is a retail facility for wholly or partially storing enclosing or displaying items or services for marketing viewing selection order and or purchase by a customer. For example retail facility may be without limitation a retail store a supermarket a big box store a superstore a book store a clothing store or a shopping mall. However retail facility is not limited to retail stores. For example retail facility may also include without limitation a sports arena an amusement park a water park a convention center or any other location at which items are sold or offered for sale to customers. In this example retail facility is a grocery store.

Sensor is one or more devices for gathering data associated with customer in retail environment and retail facility . Customer is one or more persons at retail facility for the purpose of browsing for and purchasing retail items. The data associated with customer may be used to identify patterns of behavior exhibited by customer in retail facility or similar environments such as a retail facility in a different location. The patterns of behavior may be identified as expected patterns of behavior or unexpected patterns of behavior. Once identified the patterns of behavior may be used to predict behavior and ultimately modify or manipulate a customer s behavior.

Sensor is an example of sensors that may be located internally and externally to retail facility . Sensor is operable to monitor customers before the customers enter retail facility while they are moving throughout retail facility and after customers leave retail facility . For example sensor may be mounted externally to retail facility to monitor vehicle pulling into parking lot . Further sensor may collect data regarding customer as customer is traveling from vehicle to the interior of retail facility . In this example sensor may be mounted to light poles in parking lot above a doorway or entrance to retail facility or mounted to a roof of retail facility .

Sensor is deployed throughout retail environment for gathering event data about customer . Event data is data and metadata describing actions events or conditions affecting a person s behavior in a selected environment. In particular event data includes audio and video data collected by from video cameras deployed throughout patient care environment . In this example in event data describes actions events or conditions affecting a customer s behavior in a retail environment such as retail environment . The event data is sent to the analysis server for additional processing to identify patterns of behavior in the events. For example event data may describe a first customer pausing at a product display a second customer slowing their pace at the same location a third customer continuing down the aisle at a constant pace and a fourth customer significantly slowing down at the same location. The analysis server analyzes these events to identify patterns of behavior indicating for example which variables may play a role in causing customers to slow down or pause at product display.

Sensor may be any type of sensing device for gathering event data associated with the delivery of healthcare services at retail environment . Sensor may include without limitation a camera a motion sensor device a sonar a sound recording device an audio detection device a voice recognition system a heat sensor a seismograph a pressure sensor a device for detecting odors scents and or fragrances a radio frequency identification RFID tag reader a global positioning system GPS receiver and or any other detection device for detecting a presence of a human an animal equipment or a vehicle at retail environment .

A heat sensor may be any type of known or available sensor for detecting body heat generated by a human or animal. A heat sensor may also be a sensor for detecting heat generated by a vehicle such as an automobile or a motorcycle.

A motion detector may include any type of known or available motion detector device. A motion detector device may include but is not limited to a motion detector device using a photo sensor a radar or microwave radio detector or ultrasonic sound waves.

A motion detector using ultrasonic sound waves transmits or emits ultrasonic sounds waves. The motion detector detects or measures the ultrasonic sound waves that are reflected back to the motion detector. If a human an animal or other object moves within the range of the ultrasonic sound waves generated by the motion detector the motion detector detects a change in the echo of sound waves reflected back. This change in the echo indicates the presence of a human an animal or other object moving within the range of the motion detector.

In one example a motion detector device using a radar or microwave radio detector may detect motion by sending out a burst of microwave radio energy and detecting the same microwave radio waves when the radio waves are deflected back to the motion detector. If a human an animal or other object moves into the range of the microwave radio energy field generated by the motion detector the amount of energy reflected back to the motion detector is changed. The motion detector identifies this change in reflected energy as an indication of the presence of a human an animal or other object moving within the motion detectors range.

A motion detector device using a photo sensor detects motion by sending a beam of light across a space into a photo sensor. The photo sensor detects when a human animal or object breaks or interrupts the beam of light as the human the animal or the object moves in between the source of the beam of light and the photo sensor. These examples of motion detectors are presented for illustrative purposes only. A motion detector in accordance with the illustrative embodiments may include any type of known or available motion detector and is not limited to the motion detectors described herein.

A pressure sensor detector may be for example a device for detecting a change in weight or mass associated with the pressure sensor. For example if one or more pressure sensors are imbedded in a sidewalk Astroturf or floor mat the pressure sensor detects a change in weight or mass when a human or an animal steps on the pressure sensor. The pressure sensor may also detect when a human or an animal steps off of the pressure sensor. In another example one or more pressure sensors are embedded in a parking lot and the pressure sensors detect a weight and or mass associated with a vehicle when the vehicle is in contact with the pressure sensor. A vehicle may be in contact with one or more pressure sensors when the vehicle is driving over one or more pressure sensors and or when a vehicle is parked on top of one or more pressure sensors.

A camera may be any type of known or available camera including but not limited to a video camera for taking moving video images a digital camera capable of taking still pictures and or a continuous video stream a stereo camera a web camera and or any other imaging device capable of capturing a view of whatever appears within the camera s range for remote monitoring viewing or recording of a distant or obscured person object or area.

Various lenses filters and other optical devices such as zoom lenses wide angle lenses mirrors prisms and the like may also be used with image capture device to assist in capturing the desired view. Devices may be fixed in a particular orientation and configuration or it may along with any optical devices be programmable in orientation light sensitivity level focus or other parameters. Programming data may be provided via a computing device such as server in .

A camera may also be a stationary camera and or a non stationary camera. A non stationary camera is a camera that is capable of moving and or rotating along one or more directions such as up down left right and or rotate about an axis of rotation. The camera may also be capable of moving to follow or track a person animal or object in motion. In other words the camera may be capable of moving about an axis of rotation in order to keep a customer retail employee animal or object within a viewing range of the camera lens. In this example sensor includes non stationary digital video cameras.

Sensor is coupled to or in communication with an analysis server on a data processing system such as network data processing system in . The analysis server is illustrated and described in greater detail in below. The analysis server includes software for analyzing digital images and other data captured by sensor to gather event data in retail environment .

The data collected by sensor is sent to smart detection software. The smart detection software processes the information to form the event data. The event data includes data and metadata describing event data captured by sensor . The event data is sent to the analysis server for additional processing to identify patterns of behavior that occur in retail environment . Once patterns of behavior are identified the patterns may be analyzed to further identify a set of expected behavioral patterns. The set of expected behavioral patterns are one or more patterns of behavior that are expected to occur based upon certain observable events variables or stimuli. For example expected behavioral patterns in a grocery store may include a customer acquiring a shopping cart or shopping basket upon entering the store stopping to view a display offering free retail items or bringing ten items or less to an express checkout lane.

A pattern of behavior may be considered expected if the probability of its occurrence reaches or exceeds a certain threshold. For example if greater than 50 of all customers in a grocery store acquire a shopping cart or shopping basket upon entering a grocery store then such behavior would be deemed expected if the threshold were set to 50 . In addition a pattern of behavior may be considered expected if the pattern of behavior exceeds a threshold number. For example if more than one hundred people have been observed exhibiting a particular behavior then that pattern of behavior may be deemed expected. The manner in which a pattern of behavior is determined to be expected may vary without departing from the illustrative embodiments presented herein.

The expected behavioral patterns may be used to generate an expected behavioral model describing behavior considered the norm for a selected location. Knowledge of expected patterns of behavior may then be used to modify behavior for a particular purpose. For example customer behavior in a retail environment may be modified to increase the amount of purchases that the customer is willing to make.

Retail items are items of merchandise for sale. Retail items may be displayed on a display shelf not shown located in retail facility . Other items of merchandise that may be for sale such as food beverages shoes clothing household goods decorative items or sporting goods may be hung from display racks displayed in cabinets on shelves or in refrigeration units not shown . Any other type of merchandise display arrangement known in the retail trade may also be used in accordance with the illustrative embodiments.

For example display shelves or racks may include in addition to retail items various advertising displays images or postings. A multimedia display device attached to a data processing system may also be included. The images shown on the multimedia display may be changed in real time in response to various events such as the time of day and the day of the week. In addition the images shown on the multimedia display may change according to particular behavior patterns exhibited by a customer. For example a customer exhibiting behavior associated with frugal shopping may be presented a coupon on a multimedia display to encourage a purchase.

Retail items may be viewed or identified using an image capture device such as a camera or other detector in sensor . Retail items may be identified by a software application for tracking and identifying people items and objects within retail facility . Additionally to facilitate identification an item may have attached identification tags not shown . Identification tags are tags associated with one or more retail items customers or employees for identification and tracking. For example identification tags may be without limitation a bar code pattern such as a universal product code UPC or European article number EAN a radio frequency identification RFID tag or other optical identification tag depending on the capabilities of the image capture device and associated data processing system to process the information and make an identification of retail items .

Display device is one or more devices for displaying marketing messages to customers. For example display device may be a multimedia device capable of presenting a text a graphic an audio a video and or any combination of text graphics audio and video to a customer. For example display device may be without limitation a computer display screen a laptop computer a tablet personal computer PC a video display screen a digital message board a monitor a kiosk a personal digital assistant PDA and or a cellular telephone with a display screen. Display device may be one or more display devices located within retail facility for use and or viewing by one or more customers.

In this example display device is located inside retail facility . However display device may also be located outside retail facility . As such display device may be devices such as display screens electronic signs PDAs or kiosks located in a parking lot queue line or other area outside of retail facility . Display devices deployed outside retail facility may be used in the absence of display device inside retail facility or in addition to display device located inside retail facility .

In other embodiments display device may be a display rack or shelf decorated in a manner to present marketing information to a customer of retail facility . In addition display device may be for example a banner identifying items on sale in retail facility . Further display device may also be a sticker a coupon dispenser or any other devices or object that may present marketing information to customer .

Sensor may also be used to monitor retail employee . Retail employee is a person employed at retail facility . Retail employee may be for example a janitor a cashier a manager a store director a customer service representative or any other employee working at retail facility . Sensor may gather data for use in determining behavioral patterns of retail employee or determining behavioral patterns of customer because of interaction with retail employee .

Sensor also collects event data associated with retail atmosphere . Retail atmosphere is the ambient conditions within retail facility . For example the ambient conditions may include the temperature the humidity the lighting conditions the type of music playing the existence of odors the floor plan the location of retail items or any other observable condition that may affect the behavior of people within retail facility .

The data processing system discussed in greater detail in below includes associated memory which may be an integral part such as the operating memory of the data processing system or externally accessible memory. Software for tracking objects may reside in the memory and run on the processor. The software in the data processing system keeps a list of all customers sensors retail items display devices employees or any other object or events of interest in retail facility . For example the software is capable of tracking customer as they travel through retail facility and interact with other customers retail employees retail items and display devices.

The software in the data processing system keeps a list of objects and events occurring in retail environment . The list is stored in a database. The database may be any type of database such as a spreadsheet a relational database a hierarchical database or the like. The database may be stored in the operating memory of the data processing system externally on a secondary data storage device locally on a recordable medium such as a hard drive floppy drive CD ROM DVD device remotely on a storage area network such as storage in or in any other type of storage device.

The list is updated frequently enough to maintain a dynamic accurate real time listing of the people and objects within retail facility . Further the list maintains a real time listing of the events occurring within retail facility . Thus at any given time the behavioral patterns of people located within retail facility may be predicted based upon the occurrence or omission of events.

The aspects of the illustrative embodiments may also be used to track multiple customers simultaneously. In this case the analysis server will store a separate listing for each customer within retail facility . As noted above the listing may be stored in a database. The information contained within the listings may be accessed in response to a query. For example a store director or a marketing manager may access the listing to plan marketing strategies.

Thus in one embodiment customer entering retail facility is detected by one or more sensors such as sensor . Customer may be identified and monitored. Once the customer has been verified the data processing system retrieves past purchase history total potential wallet share shopper segmentation information customer profile data granular demographic data for the customer and or any other available customer data elements using known or available data retrieval and or data mining techniques. Thereafter an analysis server in a data processing system associated with retail facility begins performing data mining on available customer profile information and demographic information for use in generating an expected behavior model.

Once the expected behavior model has been generated a behavior control strategy may be formulated and implemented to influence control or modify the customer s behavior. A behavior control strategy is a plan defining an action or a course of action for responding to a pattern of expected behavior. The action may include the generation of a notification a dispersal of an odor or any other action that may be used to respond to or reinforce the exhibition of an expected behavioral pattern. Thus if the expected behavior model indicates that the buttery smell of popcorn results in customers purchasing greater amounts of popcorn then the behavior control strategy may instruct an odor dispersal system to release a buttered popcorn odor to customers in the snack aisle.

The behavior control strategy may present the customer with marketing messages on one or more display devices. In another example the behavioral control strategy may activate a dispersal device for releasing or dispersing an odor producing chemical into the air or onto a surface such as without limitation an aerosol spray a vaporizer or any other dispersal device. An odor producing chemical may include any natural or artificial odor producing chemical. An odor producing chemical may include without limitation an artificial perfume a natural popcorn smell a citrus smell an artificial pheromone a floral smelling substance produced by flowers and other plants and or any other chemical or substance that gives off a scent. In this example the dispersal device may be used to release pleasing or relaxing smells into the air to encourage customers to feel comfortable improve customers shopping experience cause a customer to crave a particular food item and or increase the overall sales by customers.

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server client or retail environment in in which computer usable program code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments.

In the depicted example data processing system employs a hub architecture including a north bridge and memory controller hub NB MCH and a south bridge and input output I O controller hub SB ICH . Processing unit main memory and graphics processor are coupled to north bridge and memory controller hub . Processing unit may contain one or more processors and may even be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems. Graphics processor may be coupled to the NB MCH through an accelerated graphics port AGP for example.

In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter is coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub and audio adapter keyboard and mouse adapter modem read only memory ROM universal serial bus USB and other ports and PCI PCIe devices are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus and hard disk drive HDD and CD ROM are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus . PCI PCIe devices may include for example Ethernet adapters add in cards and PC cards for notebook computers. PCI uses a card bus controller while PCIe does not. ROM may be for example a flash binary input output system BIOS . Hard disk drive and CD ROM may use for example an integrated drive electronics IDE or serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface. A super I O SIO device may be coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub .

An operating system runs on processing unit and coordinates and provides control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both . An object oriented programming system such as the JAVA programming system may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from JAVA programs or applications executing on data processing system . JAVA and all JAVA based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States other countries or both.

Instructions for the operating system the object oriented programming system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processing unit . The processes of the illustrative embodiments may be performed by processing unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as for example main memory read only memory or in one or more peripheral devices.

In some illustrative examples data processing system may be a personal digital assistant PDA which is generally configured with flash memory to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data. A bus system may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus an I O bus and a PCI bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any type of communications fabric or architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the fabric or architecture. A communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Memory may be for example main memory or a cache such as found in north bridge and memory controller hub . A processing unit may include one or more processors or CPUs.

The depicted examples in are not meant to imply architectural limitations. The hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash memory equivalent non volatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the illustrative embodiments may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

A director a marketing manager or any other employee associated with retail environment in would prefer to have enough information about customers and or employees to predict patterns of behavior. Once behavior can be predicted behavior may be modified or controlled by changing certain environmental variables for example. Therefore the aspects of the illustrative embodiments recognize that it is advantageous for a manager or a director of the retail facility to have an expected behavior model that takes into account as much information regarding customers retail employees events objects and conditions at a retail facility.

Therefore the illustrative embodiments described herein provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program product for generating an expected behavior model. The process parses event data derived from video data to identify behavioral patterns wherein the event data comprises metadata describing events occurring in a selected environment. The process analyzes the behavioral patterns to identify a set of expected behavioral patterns occurring in the environment and generates the expected behavioral model using the expected behavioral patterns.

It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the words optimize optimization and related terms are terms of art that refer to improvements in speed and or efficiency of a computer program and do not purport to indicate that a computer program has achieved or is capable of achieving an optimal or perfectly speedy perfectly efficient state.

Event data is data and metadata describing events actions conditions or locations at a retail facility or other selected location. For example event data could include but is not limited to a location at which customers tend to congregate or loiter a location at which customers tend to walk at a faster pace a location on store shelves at which customers tend to linger or stare for a more prolonged period than other areas an area of the store that customers tend to ignore or neglect an area of the store in which customers frequently search for customer service or store employees to get assistance an area of the store in which children tend to wait play dwell loiter and or any other data describing events actions or conditions in the retail facility.

Event data is processed to generate an expected behavior model. An expected behavior model provides information about a subject s behavior in a selected environment. Once formulated the expected behavior model may be used to identify predict modify or control behavior. Behavior may be modified or controlled by using the expected behavior model to create a behavior control strategy. The behavior control strategy may include suggested changes in environmental variables to elicit a desired behavior from the subject. For example in a restaurant a behavior control strategy may include suggestions regarding the alteration of ambient conditions such as light and temperature to prevent patrons from lingering at a table after their meal is finished. In a grocery store environment a behavior control strategy may include suggestions on how to place items in the store to keep customers in the store longer or cause customers to purchase more retail items.

Further the behavior control strategy may include an action to display a new product at the end of an aisle where the product will be more visible to customers display an item on a shelf at eye level play a particular type of music over a sound system play music or other audio content at a particular volume over the sound system adjust the lighting in an area of the retail facility to a particular brightness level release a particular type and or amount of an odor causing chemical at a particular location in the retail facility move a display device or store shelf to a particular location in the retail facility and or any other action to improve or optimize marketing efforts. An odor causing chemical could include without limitation perfumes artificial pheromones natural scents and or artificial scents such as without limitation the smell of popcorn.

Processing or parsing the event data to generate the expected behavior model may include but is not limited to formatting the event data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models combining the event data with external data and or internal data comparing the event data to a data model and or filtering the event data for relevant data elements to form the dynamic data.

As used herein the term set includes one or more. For example a set of motion detectors may include a single motion detector or two or more motion detectors. In one embodiment the detectors include a set of one or more cameras located internally to a retail facility. Video images received from the set of cameras are used for gathering event data used to create the expected behavior model at the retail facility.

Event data collected from a set of sensors in a detection system is used to generate the expected behavior model. The event data may be processed to form dynamic data. Dynamic data is data relating to customers employees or other subjects that is gathered and analyzed in real time. Dynamic data is data that has been processed or filtered for analysis in a data model. For example a data model may not be capable of analyzing raw or unprocessed video images captured by a camera. The video images may need to be processed into data and or metadata describing the contents of the video images before a data model may be used to organize structure or otherwise manipulate data and or metadata. The video images converted to data and or metadata that is ready for processing or analysis in a set of data models is an example of dynamic data.

The dynamic data is analyzed using one or more data models in a set of data models to identify patterns of behavior exhibited by subjects in a retail facility. The patterns of behavior may include for example the motions or actions performed by a customer in response to the various environmental variables presented to or experienced by the customer. The patterns of behavior may be further analyzed and or processed in one or more data models in the set of data models to generate the expected behavior model.

A set of data models includes one or more data models. A data model is a model for structuring defining organizing imposing limitations or constraints and or otherwise manipulating data and metadata to produce a result. A data model may be generated using any type of modeling method or simulation including but not limited to a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a mathematical model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model or a simulation model.

Turning now to a diagram of a smart detection system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. System is a system such as network data processing system in . System incorporates multiple independently developed event analysis technologies in a common framework. An event analysis technology is a collection of hardware and or software usable to capture and analyze event data. For example an event analysis technology may be the combination of a video camera and facial recognition software. Images of faces captured by the video camera are analyzed by the facial recognition software to identify the subjects of the images.

Smart detection also known as smart surveillance is the use of computer vision and pattern recognition technologies to analyze detection data gathered from situated cameras and microphones. The analysis of the detection data generates events of interest in the environment. For example an event of interest at a departure drop off area in an airport includes cars that stop in the loading zone for extended periods of time . As smart detection technologies have matured they have typically been deployed as isolated applications which provide a particular set of functionalities.

Smart detection system is a smart detection system architecture for analyzing video images captured by a camera and or audio captured by an audio detection device. Smart detection system includes software for analyzing audio video data . In this example smart detection system processes audio video data for a customer or retail employee into data and metadata to form query and retrieval services . Smart detection system may be implemented using any known or available software for performing voice analysis facial recognition license plate recognition and sound analysis. In this example smart detection system is implemented as IBM smart surveillance system S3 software.

An audio video capture device is any type of known or available device for capturing video images and or capturing audio. The audio video capture device may be but is not limited to a digital video camera a microphone a web camera or any other device for capturing sound and or video images. For example the audio video capture device may be implemented as sensor in .

Video and or audio data is detection data captured by the audio video capture devices. Video and or audio data may be a sound file a media file a moving video file a media file a still picture a set of still pictures or any other form of image data and or audio data. Video and or audio data may also be referred to as detection data. Video and or audio data may include images of a customer s face an image of a part or portion of a customer s car an image of a license plate on a customer s car and or one or more images showing a customer s behavior. An image showing a customer s behavior or appearance may show a customer wearing a long coat on a hot day a customer walking with two small children which may be the customer s children or grandchildren a customer moving in a hurried or leisurely manner or any other type of behavior or appearance attributes of a customer a customer s companions or a customer s vehicle.

In this example smart detection system architecture is adapted to satisfy two principles. 1 Openness The system permits integration of both analysis and retrieval software made by third parties. In one embodiment the system is designed using approved standards and commercial off the shelf COTS components. 2 Extensibility The system should have internal structures and interfaces that will permit the functionality of the system to be extended over a period of time.

The architecture enables the use of multiple independently developed event analysis technologies in a common framework. The events from all these technologies are cross indexed into a common repository or multi mode event database allowing for correlation across multiple audio video capture devices and event types.

Smart detection system includes the following illustrative technologies integrated into a single system. License plate recognition technology may be deployed at the entrance to a facility where license plate technology catalogs a license plate of each of the arriving and departing vehicles in a parking lot associated with the retail facility.

Behavior analysis technology detects and tracks moving objects and classifies the objects into a number of predefined categories. As used herein an object may be a human customer an item a container a shopping cart or a shopping basket or any other object inside or outside the retail facility. Behavior analysis technology could be deployed on various cameras overlooking a parking lot a perimeter or inside a facility.

Face recognition technology may be deployed at entry ways to capture and recognize faces. Badge reading technology may be employed to read badges. Radar analytics technology may be employed to determine the presence of objects.

Events from access control technologies can also be integrated into smart detection system . The data gathered from behavior analysis technology license plate recognition Face recognition technology badge reader technology radar analytics technology and any other video audio data received from a camera or other video audio capture device is received by smart detection system for processing into query and retrieval services .

The events from all the above surveillance technologies are cross indexed into a single repository such as multi mode event database . In such a repository a simple time range query across the modalities will extract license plate information vehicle appearance information badge information and face appearance information thus permitting an analyst to easily correlate these attributes. The architecture of smart detection system also includes one or more smart surveillance engines SSEs which house event detection technologies.

Smart detection system further includes middleware for large scale surveillance MILS and which provides infrastructure for indexing retrieving and managing event metadata.

In this example audio video data is received from a variety of audio video capture devices such as sensor in and processed in SSEs . Each SSE can generate real time alerts and generic event metadata. The metadata generated by SSE may be represented using extensible markup language XML . The XML documents include a set of fields which are common to all engines and others which are specific to the particular type of analysis being performed by SSE . In this example the metadata generated by SSEs is transferred to a backend MILS system . This may be accomplished via the use of e.g. web services data ingest application program interfaces APIS provided by MILS . The XML metadata is received by MILS and indexed into predefined tables in multi mode event database . This may be accomplished using for example and without limitation the DB2 XML extender if an IBM DB2 database is employed. This permits for fast searching using primary keys. MILS provides a number of query and retrieval services based on the types of metadata available in the database. The query and retrieval services may include for example event browsing event search real time event alert or pattern discovery event interpretation. Each event has a reference to the original media resource such as without limitation a link to the video file. This allows a user to view the video associated with a retrieved event.

Smart detection system provides an open and extensible architecture for smart video surveillance. SSEs preferably provide a plug and play framework for video analytics. The event metadata generated by SSEs may be sent to multi mode event database as XML files. Web services API s in MILS permit for easy integration and extensibility of the metadata. Query and retrieval services such as for example event browsing and real time alerts may use structure query language SQL or similar query language through web services interfaces to access the event metadata from multi mode event database .

The smart surveillance engine SSE may be implemented as a C based framework for performing real time event analysis. SSE is capable of supporting a variety of video image analysis technologies and other types of sensor analysis technologies. SSE provides at least the following support functionalities for the core analysis components. The support functionalities are provided to programmers or users through a plurality of interfaces employed by the SSE . These interfaces are illustratively described below.

Standard plug in interfaces are provided. Any event analysis component which complies with the interfaces defined by SSE can be plugged into SSE . The definitions include standard ways of passing data into the analysis components and standard ways of getting the results from the analysis components. Extensible metadata interfaces are provided. SSE provides metadata extensibility. For example consider a behavior analysis application which uses detection and tracking technology. Assume that the default metadata generated by this component is object trajectory and size. If the designer now wishes to add color of the object into the metadata SSE enables this by providing a way to extend the creation of the appropriate XML structures for transmission to the backend MILS system .

Real time alerts are highly application dependent. For example while a person loitering may require an alert in one application the absence of a guard at a specified location may require an alert in a different application. The SSE provides an easy real time alert interfaces mechanism for developers to plug in for application specific alerts. SSE provides standard ways of accessing event metadata in memory and standardized ways of generating and transmitting alerts to the backend MILS system .

In many applications users will need the use of multiple basic real time alerts in a spatio temporal sequence to compose an event that is relevant in the user s application context. SSE provides a simple mechanism for composing compound alerts via compound alert interfaces. In many applications the real time event metadata and alerts are used to actuate alarms visualize positions of objects on an integrated display and control cameras to get better surveillance data. SSE provides developers with an easy way to plug in actuation modules which can be driven from both the basic event metadata and by user defined alerts using real time actuation interfaces.

Using database communication interfaces SSE also hides the complexity of transmitting information from the analysis engines to the multi mode event database by providing simple calls to initiate the transfer of information.

The IBM Middleware for Large Scale Surveillance MILS and may include a J2EE frame work built around IBM s DB2 and IBM WebSphere application server platforms. MILS supports the indexing and retrieval of spatio temporal event meta. MILS also provides analysis engines with the following support functionalities via standard web service interfaces using XML documents.

MILS and provide metadata ingestion services. These are web service calls which allow an engine to ingest events into the MILS and system. There are two categories of ingestion services. 1 Index Ingestion Services This permits for the ingestion of metadata that is searchable through SQL like queries. The metadata ingested through this service is indexed into tables which permit content based searches such as provided by MILS . 2 Event Ingestion Services This permits for the ingestion of events detected in SSE such as provided by MILS . For example a loitering alert that is detected can be transmitted to the backend along with several parameters of the alert. These events can also be retrieved by the user but only by the limited set of attributes provided by the event parameters.

The MILS and or provides schema management services. Schema management services are web services which permit a developer to manage their own metadata schema. A developer can create a new schema or extend the base MILS schema to accommodate the metadata produced by their analytical engine. In addition system management services are provided by the MILS and or .

The schema management services of MILS and provide the ability to add a new type of analytics to enhance situation awareness through cross correlation. For example an expected behavior model for a monitoring a retail environment is dynamic and may change over time. In addition later developed analytics may be better suited for gathering event data for a selected environment. Thus it is important to permit smart detection system to add new types of analytics and cross correlate the existing analytics with the new analytics. To add register a new type of sensor and or analytics to increase situation awareness a developer can develop new analytics and plug them into an SSE and employ MILS s schema management service to register new intelligent tags generated by the new SSE analytics. After the registration process the data generated by the new analytics is immediately available for cross correlating with existing index data.

System management services provide a number of facilities needed to manage smart detection system including 1 Camera Management Services These services include the functions of adding or deleting a camera from a MILS system adding or deleting a map from a MILS system associating a camera with a specific location on a map adding or deleting views associated with a camera assigning a camera to a specific MILS server and a variety of other functionalities needed to manage the system. 2 Engine Management Services These services include functions for starting and stopping an engine associated with a camera configuring an engine associated with a camera setting alerts on an engine and other associated functionalities. 3 User Management Services These services include adding and deleting users to a system associating selected cameras to a viewer associating selected search and event viewing capacities with a user and associating video viewing privilege with a user. 4 Content Based Search Services These services permit a user to search through an event archive using a plurality of types of queries.

For the content based search services 4 the types of queries may include A Search by Time retrieves all events from query and retrieval services that occurred during a specified time interval. B Search by Object Presence retrieves the last 100 events from a live system. C Search by Object Size retrieves events where the maximum object size matches the specified range. D Search by Object Type retrieves all objects of a specified type. E Search by Object Speed retrieves all objects moving within a specified velocity range. F Search by Object Color retrieves all objects within a specified color range. G Search by Object Location retrieves all objects within a specified bounding box in a camera view. H Search by Activity Duration retrieves all events from query and retrieval services with durations within the specified range. I Composite Search combines one or more of the above capabilities. Other system management services may also be employed.

Referring now to a block diagram of a data processing system for analyzing event data to identify patterns of behavior for generating an expected behavior model is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data processing system is a data processing system such as data processing system in and data processing system in .

Analysis server is any type of known or available server for analyzing data for use in generating an expected behavior model. Analysis server may be a server such as server in or data processing system in . Analysis server includes set of data models for analyzing dynamic data elements and static data elements.

Static data elements are data elements that do not tend to change in real time. Examples of static data elements include without limitation a customer s name address and social security number. For example Static data elements may be collected from administrative records surveys or databases.

Dynamic customer data elements are data elements that are changing in real time. For example dynamic customer data elements could include without limitation the current contents of a customer s shopping basket a time of day a day of the week whether it is a customer s birthday or other holiday observed by a customer a customer s responses to marketing messages and or items viewed by a customer a customer location and or any other dynamic customer information. Event data is a dynamic customer data element. Dynamic data elements may be collected by sensors deployed at a retail facility such as sensor in . Dynamic data elements and static data elements may be combined to form dynamic data.

Set of data models is one or more data models created a priori or pre generated for use in analyzing event data to identify patterns of behavior and generate expected behavior model . Set of data models includes one or more data models for mining event data identifying events and variables of interest and determining patterns or relationships between the events and variables of interest. Set of data models is generated using statistical data mining and simulation or modeling techniques. In this example set of data models includes but is not limited to a unifying data model system data models event data models and or user data models. These data models are discussed in greater detail in below.

Event data is data or metadata describing people actions and events occurring in the retail environment. Event data is processed to form dynamic data. Dynamic data includes patterns of behavior of people within a retail environment. Processing event data may include but is not limited to parsing event data for relevant data elements and combining event data with other sources of data. In addition processing event data may include comparing event data to baseline or comparison models and or formatting event data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models in set of data models to form the dynamic data. The processed event data and any other data forms of dynamic data not shown . The dynamic data which includes patterns of behavior is analyzed and or further processed using one or more data models in set of data models to generate expected behavior model .

Expected behavior model is a model set of definitions suggestions or parameters describing patterns of behavior of certain subjects in a selected environment. Expected behavior model may describe expected patterns of behavior for an individual subject or for all subjects located at a selected environment. Expected behavior model identifies the patterns of behavior as expected patterns of behavior upon detecting a trend or repetition of behavior in response to certain environmental or biological variables that cause the set of expected behavioral patterns. Thus expected behavioral model also associates a cause with the set of expected behavioral patterns. Once a cause is known then introducing a specific cause at a later time may result in the exhibition of a pattern of expected behavior.

Expected behavior model is generated through the continual collection and analysis of event data in a selected location. Application of the event data to particular individuals is more effective in identifying patterns of behavior. Thus analysis server utilizes profile data in the generation of expected behavior model .

Profile data is data regarding one or more customers. Profile data includes point of contact data profiled past data current actions data transactional history data certain click stream data registration data account data and or any other data regarding a customer. Registration data may include customer provided data regarding the customer such as name address telephone number email address fax number place of employment or any other customer information.

Point of contact data is data regarding a method or device used by a customer to interact with a data processing system of a merchant or supplier. The customer may interact with the merchant or supplier using a computing device or display terminal having a user interface for inputting data and or receiving output. The device or terminal may be a device provided by the retail facility and or a device belonging to or provided by the customer. For example the display or access device may include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a laptop computer a desktop computer a computer terminal a kiosk a personal digital assistant PDA or any other display or access device.

In the illustrative embodiments a global profile includes data on the customer s interests preferences and affiliation. The profiled past may also comprise retrieving purchased data. Various firms provide data for purchase which is grouped or keyed to presenting a lifestyle or a life stage view of customers by block group or some other baseline parameter. The purchased data presents a view of the customer based on aggregation of data points such as but not limited to geographic block age of head of household income level number of children education level ethnicity and buying patterns.

The profiled past data may also include navigational data relating to the path the customer used to arrive at a web page which indicates where the customer came from or the path the customer followed to link to the merchant or supplier s web page. Transactional data of actions taken is data regarding a transaction. For example transaction data may include data regarding whether the transaction is a first time transaction or a repeat transaction and or how much the customer usually spends. Information on how much a customer generally spends during a given transaction may be referred to as basket share. Data voluntarily submitted by the customer in responding to questions or a survey may also be included in the profiled past

Current actions also called a current and historical record are also included in profile data . Current actions are data defining customer behavior. One source of current actions is listings of the purchases made by the customer payments and returns made by the customer and or click stream data from a point of contact device of the customer. Click stream data is data regarding a customer s navigation of an online web page of the merchant or supplier. Click stream data may include page hits sequence of hits duration of page views response to advertisements transactions made and conversion rates. Conversion rate is the number of times the customer takes action divided by the number of times an opportunity is presented.

Profile data may also include data associated with a detailed demographics profile for one or more customers. The demographics profile may include information relating to without limitation ethnicity block group lifestyle life stage income health physiological conditions and education data. Further profile data may also include psychographic data that provides an attitude profile of the customer. Examples of attitude profiles include a trend buyer or a time strapped person who prefers to purchase a complete outfit or a professional buyer who prefers to mix and match individual items from various suppliers.

Environmental data is data relating to the environmental variables associated with the retail facility from which event data is generated. Environmental data includes for example information relating to the ambient conditions within retail facility in . For example the ambient conditions may include the temperature the humidity the lighting conditions the type of music playing the existence of odors the floor plan the location of retail items or any other observable condition that may affect the behavior of people within the retail facility. Thus an association between environmental variables and effects on behavior may be determined.

In this example profile data and environmental data are stored in storage device . Storage device is any local or remote data storage device. For example storage device may include storage in or read only memory ROM and or compact disk read only memory CD ROM in .

Turning now to a block diagram of a unifying data model for processing event data is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The event data generated by a smart detection system may be processed by one or more data models in a set of data models such as set of data models in to identify patterns in the events. Unifying data model is an example of a data model for processing event data.

In this example unifying data model has three types of data models namely 1 system data models which captures the specification of a given monitoring system including details like geographic location of the system number of cameras deployed in the system physical layout of the monitored space and other details regarding the retail environment and retail facility 2 user data models models users privileges and user functionality and 3 event data models which captures the events that occur in a specific sensor or zone in the monitored space. Each of these data models is described below.

System data models has a number of components. These may include a sensor camera data models . The most fundamental component of this sensor camera data models is a view. A view is defined as some particular placement and configuration such as a location orientation and or parameters of a sensor. In the case of a camera a view would include the values of the pan tilt and zoom parameters any lens and camera settings and position of the camera. A fixed camera can have multiple views. The view Id may be used as a primary key to distinguish between events being generated by different sensors. A single sensor can have multiple views. Sensors in the same geographical vicinity are grouped into clusters which are further grouped under a root cluster. There is one root cluster per MILS server.

Engine data models provide a comprehensive security solution which utilizes a wide range of event detection technologies. Engine data models captures at least some of the following information about the analytical engines Engine Identifier A unique identifier assigned to each engine Engine Type This denotes the type of analytic being performed by the engine for example face detection behavior analysis and or LPR and Engine Configuration This captures the configuration parameters for a particular engine.

User data models captures the privileges of a given user. These may include selective access to camera views selective access to camera engine configuration and system management functionality and selective access to search and query functions.

Event data models represents the events that occur within a space that may be monitored by one or more cameras or other sensors. Event data model may incorporate time line data models for associating the events with a time. By associating the events with a time an integrated event may be defined. An integrated event is an event that may include multiple sub events. Time line data model uses time as a primary synchronization mechanism for events that occur in the real world which is monitored through sensors. The basic MILS schema allows multiple layers of annotations for a given time span.

Turning now to a process for generating event data by a smart detection system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process in may be implemented by a smart detection system such as smart detection system in .

The process begins by receiving detection data from a set of cameras step . The process analyses the detection data using multiple analytical technologies to detect events step . The multiple technologies may include for example a behavior analysis engine a license plate recognition engine a face recognition engine a badge reader engine and or a radar analytic engine.

Events are cross correlated in a unifying data model to identify patterns of events step . Cross correlating provides integrated situation awareness across the multiple analytical technologies. The cross correlating may include correlating events to a time line to associate events to define an integrated event. The patterns of events are indexed and stored in a repository such as a database step with the process terminating thereafter.

In the example in the database can be queried to determine an integrated event that matches the query. This includes employing cross correlated information from a plurality of information technologies and or sources. New analytical technologies also may be registered. The new analytical technologies can employ model and cross correlate with existing analytical technologies to provide a dynamically configurable surveillance system.

In this example detection data is received from a set of cameras. However in other embodiments detection data may come from other detection devices such as without limitation a badge reader a microphone a motion detector a heat sensor or a radar.

Turning now to a process for generating an expected behavior model is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. This process may be implemented by an analysis server such as analysis server in .

The process begins by retrieving event data step . The event data may be retrieved from a data storage device such as a relational database a multi modal database or any other data storage device. The event data includes metadata describing events occurring at a retail facility.

The process then parses the event data to identify patterns of behavior step . Next the process analyzes the patterns of behavior to form a set of expected patterns of behavior step . Subsequently the process generates an expected behavioral model using the expected pattern of behavior step and the process terminates.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the different depicted embodiments illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of some possible implementations of methods apparatus and computer program products. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified function or functions. In some alternative implementations the function or functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example in some cases two blocks shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The illustrative embodiments described herein provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program product for generating an expected behavior model. The process parses event data derived from video data to identify behavioral patterns wherein the event data comprises metadata describing events occurring in a selected environment. The process analyzes the behavioral patterns to identify a set of expected behavioral patterns occurring in the environment and generates the expected behavioral model using the expected behavioral patterns.

Using the method and apparatus disclosed herein an expected behavior model may be generated from a collection of dynamic data. The expected behavior model may then be used to generate a behavior control strategy to influence manipulate or modify the behavior of a person. Use of the expected behavior model may be directed to many different outcomes such as for example increasing revenue at a retail facility providing increased security in banks or casinos or treating addictions.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Further a computer storage medium may contain or store a computer readable program code such that when the computer readable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable program code over a communications link. This communications link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

