---

title: Architectural design for personnel events application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatuses, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing personnel events functionality. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include a personnel administration process component, a payroll processing process component, an expense and reimbursement management process component, a time and labor process component, a compensation management process component, an employee payroll administration process component, and numerous country-specific employer regulatory compliance process components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671033&OS=08671033&RS=08671033
owner: SAP AG
number: 08671033
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071231
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for personnel events.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for a personnel events software application.

In its various aspects the software architecture design can be implemented as methods systems and apparatuses including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing service procurement. The software application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces and multiple service operations each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include a Payroll Processing process component a Time and Labor Management process component a Compensation Management process component an Employee Payroll Administration process component a DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an AU Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a CA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a DK Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an NL Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a SG Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a Personnel Administration process component an Expense and Reimbursement Management process component a Business Partner Data Management process component a Human Capital Master Data Management process component and an Identity Management process component.

In its various aspects the software architecture design can further be implemented as methods systems and apparatuses including computer program products implementing a software architecture design for a software application that is adapted to interact with external software systems through the service operations described in reference to external process components or a subcombination of them.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The Human Capital deployment unit handles the management of employee related processes in a company such as personnel administration time and labor management and compensation management. The deployment unit includes a Time and Labor Management process component a Compensation Management process component an Employee Payroll Administration process component a DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an AU Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a CA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a DK Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an NL Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an SG Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a Personnel Administration process component an AT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a CH Employer Regulatory Compliance process component and an IN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

The Time and Labor Management process component handles the management of employees planned working times and the recording and valuation of work performed and absence times. The Compensation Management process component handles the planning and specification of compensation data for employees using appropriate reward strategies which are based on predefined compensation structures and components. The Employee Payroll Administration process component handles the administration of the employee specific payroll agreement and the overview of completed and planned payroll processes.

The DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the administration of employee data and reporting to authorities that employers in Germany are legally obligated to perform. The US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the administration of employee data and reporting to authorities that employers in the United States of America are legally obligated to perform. The CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of reporting and other administrative activities that employers in China with respect to employees are legally obligated to perform. The FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the administration of employee data and reporting to authorities that employers in France are legally obligated to perform. The GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the administration of employee data and reporting to authorities that employers in the United Kingdom are legally obligated to perform. The IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the administration of employee data and reporting to authorities that employers in Italy are legally obligated to perform. The AU Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in Australia is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The CA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in Canada is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The DK Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of reporting and other administrative activities that an employer in Denmark is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The NL Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in Netherlands is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The SG Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in Singapore is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in South Africa is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The AT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in Austria is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The CH Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in Switzerland is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The IN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component handles the combination of activities an employer in India is obliged to perform with respect to employees. The Personnel Administration process component handles the administration of personnel changes concerning employee master data and work agreements.

The Payroll deployment unit handles the collection of payroll relevant data from events such as the hiring or transfer of an employee changes to remuneration time recording and settlement of expenses. The deployment unit includes a Payroll Processing process component which handles the execution and monitoring of regular as well as off cycle payroll processes such as completeness checks of payroll relevant employee data the payroll run itself verification of the results and the transfer to financial accounting.

The Expense and Reimbursement Management deployment unit includes an Expense and Reimbursement Management process component which handles the management and monitoring of expenses incurred by employees and the reimbursement of such expenses to employees.

A Business Partner Data Management process component handles the management of the business partner master data for the company. This data includes the information needed to describe the rights and obligations of a business partner participating in various business processes such as sales purchasing and accounting processes.

An Identity Management process component deals with identifying individuals in a system landscape and controlling their access by associating user rights and restrictions.

A Human Capital Master Data Management process component handles the management of work agreements employments and human capital master data used in different HCM areas.

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit . It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes an Employee Time Agreement business object . The Employee Time Agreement business object represents an agreement between employer and employee including time management stipulations derived from legal company specific and pay related provisions and from terms agreed individually with the employee.

The Employee Time Agreement business object uses a Notify of Planned Working Times from Time Agreement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Planned Working Times operation . The operation is included in an Employee Time Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about planned working times. The operation generates an Employee Time Agreement Planned Working Times Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Planned Working Times operation receives the Employee Time Agreement Planned Working Times Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an Employee Time Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains country specific Employee Payroll Input business objects based on the country in which an employee is employed and based on changes to the Employee Time Agreement business object . The operation uses a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Planned Working Times inbound process agent to update a DE Employee Payroll Input business object a US Employee Payroll Input business object a CN Employee Payroll Input business object an FR Employee Payroll Input business object a GB Employee Payroll Input business object an IT Employee Payroll Input business object a CA Employee Payroll Input business object a ZA Employee Payroll Input business object a DK Employee Payroll Input business object an AT Employee Payroll Input business object an AU Employee Payroll Input business object a CH Employee Payroll Input business object an IN Employee Payroll Input business object an NL Employee Payroll Input business object or an SG Employee Payroll Input business object .

The DE Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for German payroll for one employee. The US Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for US payroll for one employee. The CN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Chinese payroll for one employee. The FR Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for French payroll for one employee. The GB Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for GB payroll for one employee. The IT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Italian payroll for one employee. The CA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Canadian payroll. The ZA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for South African payroll. The DK Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Danish payroll. The AT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Austrian payroll for one employee. The AU Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Australian payroll. The CH Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Swiss payroll for one employee. The IN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Indian payroll for one employee. The NL Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Dutch payroll. The SG Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Singaporean payroll.

As shown in the AU Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an AU Employee Tax Arrangement business object and an AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement business object . The AU Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Australia that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Australia. The AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible Australian bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Australia pension insurance contributions and reporting according to the Australian legal requirements.

The AU Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of AU Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AU Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an AU Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data from an AU employee. The operation generates an AU Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Process outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the AU Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed pension insurance data for an AU employee. The operation generates an AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the AU Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an AU Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s AU tax arrangement.

A Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Pension Insurance Arrangement operation receives the AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the AU Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s AU pension insurance arrangement.

The Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Pension Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update an AU Employee Payroll Input business object . The AU Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Australian payroll.

As shown in the FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible French bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of French social insurance contributions and reporting according to the French legal requirements.

The FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an FR Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for an FR employee. The operation generates an FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an FR Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s FR social insurance arrangement. The operation uses a Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update the FR Employee Payroll Input business object . The FR Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for French payroll for one employee.

As shown in the GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object and a GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement by the United Kingdom tax authority for the employee concerning calculation and reporting of income tax deductions according to United Kingdom legal requirements. The GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by United Kingdom social insurance authority concerning calculation and reporting of contributions according to the United Kingdom legal requirements.

The GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of GB Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of GB Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a GB Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a GB employee. The operation generates a GB Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the GB Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for a GB employee. The operation generates a GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the GB Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a GB Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s GB tax arrangement.

A Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the GB Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s GB social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update the GB Employee Payroll Input business object . The GB Employee Payroll Input business object represents summary of employee specific input for GB payroll for one employee.

As shown in the Employee Payroll Administration process component includes an Employee Payroll Agreement business object . The Employee Payroll Agreement business object represents an agreement between the employer and employee concerning the personal conditions for payroll processing. This agreement determines the fundamental differentials of the payroll behavior for the employee.

The Employee Payroll Agreement business object uses a Notify of Employee Payroll Agreement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Employee Payroll Agreement operation . The operation is included in an Employee Payroll Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about changes to the employee payroll agreement. The operation generates an Employee Payroll Agreement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Payroll Agreement operation receives the Employee Payroll Agreement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an Employee Payroll Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains country specific Employee Payroll Input business objects based on the country in which an employee is employed and based on changes to the Employee Payroll Agreement business object . The operation uses a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Payroll Agreement inbound process agent to update a DE Employee Payroll Input business object a US Employee Payroll Input business object a CN Employee Payroll Input business object an FR Employee Payroll Input business object a GB Employee Payroll Input business object an IT Employee Payroll Input business object a CA Employee Payroll Input business object a ZA Employee Payroll Input business object a DK Employee Payroll Input business object an AT Employee Payroll Input business object an AU Employee Payroll Input business object a CH Employee Payroll Input business object an IN Employee Payroll Input business object an NL Employee Payroll Input business object or an SG Employee Payroll Input business object .

The DE Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for German payroll for one employee. The US Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for US payroll for one employee. The CN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Chinese payroll for one employee. The FR Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for French payroll for one employee. The GB Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for GB payroll for one employee. The IT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Italian payroll for one employee. The CA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Canadian payroll. The ZA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for South African payroll. The DK Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Danish payroll. The AT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Austrian payroll for one employee. The AU Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Australian payroll. The CH Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Swiss payroll for one employee. The IN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Indian payroll for one employee. The NL Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Dutch payroll. The SG Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Singaporean payroll.

As shown in the DK Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a DK Employee Tax Arrangement business object and a DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The DK Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Denmark that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Denmark. The DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible Danish bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Danish social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Danish legal requirements.

The DK Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of DK Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a DK Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a DK employee. The operation generates a DK Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the DK Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for a DK employee. The operation generates a DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the DK Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a DK Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s DK tax arrangement.

A Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the DK Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s DK social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update a DK Employee Payroll Input business object . The DK Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Danish payroll.

As shown in the CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object and a CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of the People s Republic of China that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements. The CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by the People s Republic of China bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions and benefits. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of the People s Republic of China social insurance contributions and reporting according to the People s Republic of China Social Insurance Bodies.

The CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of CN Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a CN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a CN employee. The operation generates a CN Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the CN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for a CN employee. The operation generates a CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the CN Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a CN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s CN tax arrangement.

A Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the CN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s CN social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update the CN Employee Payroll Input business object . The CN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Chinese payroll for one employee.

As shown in the SG Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an SG Employee Tax Arrangement business object and an SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The SG Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Singapore that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Singapore. The SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible Singaporean bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Singaporean social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Singapore legal requirements.

The SG Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of SG Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of SG Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an SG Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for an SG employee. The operation generates an SG Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the SG Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for an SG employee. The operation generates an SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the SG Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an SG Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s SG tax arrangement.

A Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the SG Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s SG social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update an SG Employee Payroll Input business object . The SG Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Singaporean payroll.

As shown in the ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a ZA Employee Tax Arrangement business object and a ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The ZA Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of South Africa that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of South Africa. The ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible South African bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of South African social insurance contributions and reporting according to the South African legal requirements.

The ZA Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of ZA Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of ZA Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a ZA employee. The operation generates a ZA Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for a ZA employee. The operation generates a ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the ZA Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s ZA tax arrangement.

A Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s ZA social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update a ZA Employee Payroll Input business object . The ZA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for South African payroll.

As shown in the CA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object . The CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Canada that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Canada.

The CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of CA Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CA Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a CA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a CA employee. The operation generates a CA Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the CA Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a CA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s CA tax arrangement. The operation uses a Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update a CA Employee Payroll Input business object . The CA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Canadian payroll.

As shown in the DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a DE Employee Tax Arrangement business object and a DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The DE Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement by the German tax authority for the employee concerning calculation and reporting of income tax deductions according to German legal requirements. The DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by the German bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions and benefits. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of German social insurance contributions and reporting according to the German Data Entry and Transfer Regulation.

The DE Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of DE Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of DE Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a DE Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a German employee. The operation generates a DE Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the DE Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for a German employee. The operation generates a DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the DE Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a DE Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s DE tax arrangement.

A Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the DE Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s DE social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . The DE Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for German payroll for one employee.

As shown in the Compensation Management process component includes an Employee Compensation Agreement business object . The Employee Compensation Agreement business object represents an agreement between an employer and an employee detailing compensation components that are relevant to the employee such as base salary one time and recurring payments and payments for employee benefits. Also part of this agreement can be the assignment of a Compensation Structure Grade which shall be valid for the employee.

The Employee Compensation Agreement business object uses a Notify of Employee Compensation Agreement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Employee Compensation Agreement operation . The operation is included in an Employee Compensation Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about the agreement between an employer and an employee detailing compensation components that are relevant to the employee. The operation generates an Employee Compensation Agreement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Compensation Agreement operation receives the Employee Compensation Agreement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an Employee Compensation Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains country specific Employee Payroll Input business objects based on the country in which an employee is employed. The operation uses a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Compensation Agreement inbound process agent to update a DE Employee Payroll Input business object a US Employee Payroll Input business object a CN Employee Payroll Input business object an FR Employee Payroll Input business object a GB Employee Payroll Input business object an IT Employee Payroll Input business object a CA Employee Payroll Input business object a ZA Employee Payroll Input business object a DK Employee Payroll Input business object an AT Employee Payroll Input business object an AU Employee Payroll Input business object a CH Employee Payroll Input business object an IN Employee Payroll Input business object an NL Employee Payroll Input business object or an SG Employee Payroll Input business object .

The DE Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for German payroll for one employee. The US Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for US payroll for one employee. The CN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Chinese payroll for one employee. The FR Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for French payroll for one employee. The GB Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for GB payroll for one employee. The IT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Italian payroll for one employee. The CA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Canadian payroll. The ZA Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for South African payroll. The DK Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Danish payroll. The AT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Austrian payroll for one employee. The AU Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Australian payroll. The CH Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Swiss payroll for one employee. The IN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Indian payroll for one employee. The NL Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Dutch payroll. The SG Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Singaporean payroll.

As shown in the US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a US Employee Tax Arrangement business object . The US Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement by the responsible tax authorities for the employee concerning calculation and reporting of withholding tax according to US federal state and local legal requirements.

The US Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of US Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of US Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a US Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a US Employee. The operation generates a US Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain US Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the US Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a US Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s US tax arrangement. The operation uses a Maintain US Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update the US Employee Payroll Input business object . The US Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of all employee specific input for US payroll for one employee.

As shown in the NL Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an NL Employee Tax Arrangement business object and an NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The NL Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of the Netherlands that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of the Netherlands. The NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible Dutch bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Dutch social insurance contributions and reporting according to the legal requirements of the Netherlands.

The NL Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of NL Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of NL Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an NL Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for an NL employee. The operation generates an NL Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the NL Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for an NL employee. The operation generates an NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the NL Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an NL Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s NL tax arrangement.

A Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the NL Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s NL social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update an NL Employee Payroll Input business object . The NL Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Dutch payroll.

As shown in the IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object and an IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement by the responsible tax authorities for the employee concerning calculation and reporting of income tax deductions according to Italian legal requirements. The IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by the Italian bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions and benefits. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Italian social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Italian s Social Insurance bodies.

The IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of IT Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IT Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an IT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for an IT employee. The operation generates an IT Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the IT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for an IT employee. The operation generates an IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the IT Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an IT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s IT tax arrangement.

A Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the IT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s IT social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update the IT Employee Payroll Input business object . The IT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Italian payroll for one employee.

As shown in the AT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an AT Employee Tax Arrangement business object and an AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The AT Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Austria that defines the rules of how the employer calculates and reports taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Austria. The AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible Austrian bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions.

The AT Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of AT Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AT Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an AT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for an Austrian employee. The operation generates an AT Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the AT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for an Austrian employee. The operation generates an AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the AT Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an AT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s Austrian tax arrangement.

A Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the AT Employer Regulatory Compliance in a Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s Austrian social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update an AT Employee Payroll Input business object . The AT Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Austrian payroll.

As shown in the CH Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a CH Employee Tax Arrangement business object and a CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The CH Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Switzerland that defines the rules of how the employer calculates and reports taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Switzerland. The CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible Swiss bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions.

The CH Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of CH Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CH Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a CH Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for a Swiss employee. The operation generates a CH Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the CH Employer Regulatory Compliance in the Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for a Swiss employee. The operation generates a CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the CH Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in a CH Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s Swiss tax arrangement.

A Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the CH Employer Regulatory Compliance in a Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s Swiss social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update an CH Employee Payroll Input business object . The CH Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Swiss payroll.

As shown in the IN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an IN Employee Tax Arrangement business object and an IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The IN Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of India that defines the rules of how the employer calculates and reports taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of India. The IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by responsible Indian bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions.

The IN Employee Tax Arrangement business object uses a Notify of IN Employee Tax Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IN Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an IN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed tax data for an Indian employee. The operation generates an IN Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

The IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object uses a Notify of IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the IN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The operation provides notification about new or changed social insurance data for an Indian employee. The operation generates an IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message .

A Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation receives the IN Employee Tax Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in an IN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s Indian tax arrangement.

A Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation receives the IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement Payroll Notification message . The operation is included in the IN Employer Regulatory Compliance in a Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . The operation maintains information on an employee s Indian social insurance arrangement.

The Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation and the Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation use a Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance inbound process agent to update an IN Employee Payroll Input business object . The IN Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of employee specific input for Indian payroll.

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of a data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the present disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

