---

title: Methods and compositions for modulation of blood-neural barrier
abstract: Methods and compositions for modulating blood-neural barrier (BNB) for the treatment of CNS conditions such as edema, and for increased drug delivery efficacy across the BNB. The present invention further relates to improved tPA treatment of ischemic cerebrovascular and related diseases in combination with antagonism of the PDGF signaling pathway. The inventive method and composition is particularly suitable for conjunctive therapy of ischemic stroke using tPA and an anti-PDGF-C antagonist or an anti-PDGFR-α antagonist.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08147828&OS=08147828&RS=08147828
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 08147828
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070417
---
This invention was made with U.S. government support under HL50784 HL54710 HL55374 and HL55747 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention was made with U.S. government support under HL50784 HL54710 HL55374 and HL55747 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to methods and compositions for modulating blood neural barrier BNB for the treatment of CNS conditions such as edema and for increased drug delivery efficacy across the BNB. The present invention further relates to improved tPA treatment of ischemic cerebrovascular and related diseases in combination with antagonism of the PDGF signaling pathway.

The blood neural barrier BNB including blood brain barrier BBB blood retinal barrier BRB and blood spinal cord barrier is a barrier that maintains a precisely regulated microenvironment for reliable neuronal activities. The BNB blocks all molecules except those that cross cell membranes by means of lipid solubility such as oxygen carbon dioxide ethanol and steroid hormones and those that are allowed in by specific transport systems such as sugars and some amino acids . In addition the endothelial cells metabolize certain molecules to prevent their entry into the central nervous system.

The BNB comprises an extensive network of endothelial cells pericytes astrocytes and neurons that form functional neurovascular units. The neurovascular unit is a conserved anatomical structure that is present at all sites where blood vessels meet neural tissues including brain retina and the spinal cord. It is the functional properties of the neurovascular unit that form the blood brain barrier function in brain the blood retina function in the retina and the blood spinal cord barrier in the spinal cord. Collectively these barrier functions in various neural tissues are known as the blood neural barrier. The neurovascular unit is composed of endothelial cells lining the inner surface of the vessel perivascular pericytes that are tightly attached to the vessel and an outer sheet of perivascular astrocytes. The presence of tight junctions between endothelial cells and specific BNB transporters including carrier mediated active efflux and receptor mediated transporters coupled with a lack of fenestrations ensure the BNB s function as a selective diffusion barrier.

Astrocytes play a critical role in the development and maintenance and structure and function of the BNB as the CNS endothelial cells are surrounded by astrocytic end foot processes. Astrocytes endothelial cells interaction influences the BNB in both physiological and pathological conditions. For review see Kim et al. 2006 Blood neural barrier intercellular communication at glio vascular interface J. Biochem. Mol. Biol. 39 339 345 .

Because BNB is essential in the regulation of microenvironment of the CNS breakdown of BNB is closely related with the development and progression of CNS diseases such as brain edema stroke ischemic retinopathies diabetic retinopathy Alzheimer s disease multiple sclerosis and tumors of the CNS.

Failure of the BNB may be a precipitating event itself or a consequence of another condition. Therefore there is a need for prevention or inhibition of such breakdowns.

On the other hand delivery of agents that might otherwise be effective in diagnosis and therapy of CNS disorder is a major challenge for the diagnosis or treatment of most CNS disorders. Substances with a molecular weight higher than 500 daltons generally cannot cross the blood brain barrier. As a consequence the delivery of many potentially important diagnostic and therapeutic agents to the CNS is substantially hindered because they do not cross the BNB in adequate amounts.

Various mechanisms for delivering drugs across the BNB have been proposed such as by disruption of the BBB by osmotic means biochemically by the use of vasoactive substances such as bradykinin or even by localized exposure to high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU . Other strategies to go through the BBB may entail the use of endogenous transport systems including carrier mediated transporters such as glucose and amino acid carriers receptor mediated transcytosis for insulin or transferrin and blocking of active efflux transporters such as p glycoprotein. Strategies for drug delivery behind the BBB include intracerebral implantation and convection enhanced distribution. It would be highly desirable to have available a method for opening up the BNB and achieve drug delivery via the circulation system.

Edema is the presence of abnormally large amounts of fluid in the intercellular spaces of the tissue which causes tissue swelling. It may be localized or restricted to certain organs such as edema ascites peritoneal cavity hydrothorax pleural cavity hydropericardium pericardial sac cerebral edema hydrocephalus glaucoma acute pulmonary edema. Edema may also be generalized or systemic such as anasarca or hydrops which are massive generalized edema. Local edema may be passive occurring because of obstruction to vascular or lymphatic drainage from the area or due to increased vascular permeability. For example there are several well known eye diseases that have a component of initial swelling and edema formation followed by hypoxia of the tissue and undesired induction of angiogenesis. Among these conditions are retinopathies including diabetic retinopathy and maculopathies including wet age related macula degeneration AMD . These are major diseases of the eye and millions of patients experience these devastating conditions.

Increased vascular permeability may be due to damage or disruption of the blood vessel endothelium resulting in excessive transfer of fluids to the extravascular compartment. This type of edema may be observed in patients with cerebral ischemia head trauma acute vascular occlusion i.e. pulmonary embolism and infection i.e. sepsis among others.

More specifically cerebral edema describes increased water content or maldistribution of water in CNS parenchyma. Cerebral edema is a non specific reaction to injury that occurs in a wide variety of CNS diseases including head trauma subarachnoid hemorrhage and ischemic stroke. There are two basic types of cerebral edema. Vasogenic cerebral edema affects primarily white matter and is due to leaky blood vessels i.e. a breakdown in the blood brain barrier where water accumulates in the extracellular space and total water content of the brain is generally increased. Cytotoxic cerebral edema on the other hand affects primarily gray matter and is due to excess water entering the intracellular space. Due to a disturbance of cell membrane function as in anoxic ischemic injury but total water content of the brain is generally not increased.

Cerebral edema associated with pathological conditions often creates intracranial hypertension and contributes to the morbidity and mortality of patients. It is one of the most common complications associated with ischemic stroke Garcia et al. 1978 Acta Neuropathol. 43 85 95 Baker et al. J. 1971 Neuropathol. Exp. Neurol. 30 668 679 .

Few curative therapeutics are available for the treatment of edema. In general palliative approaches are used in edema treatment e.g. by decreasing sodium and or water intake or increasing sodium and or water excretion e.g. by using diuretics or application of local pressure or via treating the underlying diseases. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 540 incorporated herein by reference discloses methods for decreasing vascular permeability via inhibition of tissue type plasminogen activator tPA activity. However as will become clear from the discussion below tPA plays an important role in normal physiological functions and is the only available treatment approved by the FDA for ischemic stroke. Often it is not desirable to generally or globally inhibit tPA activities in patients. Accordingly an improved edema treatment method is needed.

A stroke or cerebrovascular accident CVA occurs when the blood supply to a part of the brain is suddenly interrupted by occlusion of an intra or extra cerebral artery an ischemic stroke accounting for approximately 90 of strokes by hemorrhage a hemorrhagic stroke accounting for less than 10 of strokes or other causes. Stroke often induces irreversible neuronal damage and represents a major health problem in the ever ageing population of industrialized nations. Each year over three million people in the U.S. alone suffer from stroke and it is the third leading cause of death and the leading cause of adult morbidity in developed countries. As a consequence stroke constitutes a considerable socioeconomic burden to society Benchenane et al. 2004 Trends in Neurosciences 27 155 160 .

Since the 1980s and based on the development of rodent models of experimental cerebral ischemia many deleterious cellular pathways have been proposed to explain the expansion of ischemic brain lesion including excitotoxicity free radical generation apoptosis and inflammation Dirnagl et al. 1999 Pathobiology of ischaemic stroke an integrated view. Trends Neurosci. 22 391 3972 . To block these deleterious events several putative neuroprotective molecules such as NMDA antagonists Ca antagonists free radical scavengers and caspase inhibitors have been developed and significant beneficial effects have been shown in some or almost all animal models. However none of these neuroprotective molecules has successfully reached clinically approved application in patients Kidwell et al. 2001 Trends in acute ischemic stroke trials through the 20th century. Stroke 32 1349 13593 De Keyser et al. 1999 Clinical trials with neuroprotective drugs in acute ischaemic stroke are we doing the right thing Trends Neurosci. 22 535 540 . Accordingly the treatment of ischemic stroke remains one of the most challenging areas in medicine today.

So far the only treatment approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA is early reperfusion using the thrombolytic agent tissue type plasminogen activator tPA .

tPA is one of the two mammalian serine proteases that cleaves plasminogen into active plasmin. In plasma the primary function of active plasmin is the digestion of fibrin. Apart from its fibrinolytic function a growing body of data suggests that tPA also plays a crucial role in the control of the homeostasis of the CNS. In addition to its expression in blood and many peripheral tissues tPA has been detected in the CNS and is involved in many physiological functions such as synaptic outgrowth or neuronal migration during perinatal development. The most common idea is that tPA would facilitate axon elongation by degrading extracellular matrix. Furthermore accumulating evidence implies roles for tPA in normal neural function in the developed brain and should be considered a neuromodulator in the brain parenchyma. tPA is believed to have relatively broad functions in neural plasticity in various brain areas. For example it is produced and released by neurons through an exocytotic mechanism and tPA inhibitors such as the type 1 plasminogen activator inhibitor PAI 1 or neuroserpin can block tPA activity in the brain parenchyma. In addition tPA can be recaptured by astrocytes. Recently it was also shown that tPA promotes leakage through the blood brain barrier Yepes et al. 2003 Tissue type plasminogen activator induces opening of the blood brain barrier via the LDL receptor related protein. J. Clin. Invest. 112 1533 1540 .

Although tPA is clearly beneficial as a thrombolytic agent and has been successfully used to treat myocardial infarction due to clot formation its use in the treatment of occlusive cerebrovascular diseases remains controversial due to potential deleterious effects. For example it has been reported that tPA knock out mice suffered less extensive brain injury and edema following general brain trauma suggesting that tPA is responsible for the injuries to occur Mori et al. 2001 Neuroreport. 12 4117 20 . In the USA in 1999 up to 80 of stroke patients are ischemic and a large number of them would have benefited from thrombolytic therapy yet for several reasons less than 5 of stroke patients were treated with tPA. Currently the recommended window for tPA administration is within 3 hours after occlusion which suggests that with time deleterious effects of tPA in the parenchyma counteract its beneficial effects afforded by reperfusion. tPA only benefits a limited number of the potential patients with ischemic stroke. The limited benefit of tPA seems to be due in part to the unique activities that tPA has in the brain beyond its well established role as a fibrinolytic protease. In particular tPA has been reported to interact with at least two different cellular receptors expressed in the brain and these associations have been linked to both neurotoxicity and altered blood brain barrier function. Increasing evidence suggests that tPA could also have direct and harmful effects on neurons and glial cells. These recently described effects of tPA present unique challenges for thrombolytic therapy in ischemic stroke.

There is thus also a need for new strategies for lowering some of the side effects and to improve the efficacy of tPA in the treatment of ischemic cerebrovascular diseases and related diseases such as AMD.

It has now been surprisingly discovered that PDGF platelet derived growth factors PDGFs including PDGF A PDGF B and PDGF C through their respective receptors and downstream components of the signaling pathways increase permeability of the blood neural barrier.

Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention provides methods and compositions for modulating permeability of blood neural barrier in a mammal or higher vertebrate in need thereof by modulating in a neurovascular unit of the mammal the level or activity of at least one substance selected from the group consisting of PDGF A PDGF B PDGF C PDGFAA PDGF AB PDGF BB and PDGF CC collectively hereinafter PDGF or their respective receptors PDGFR and PDGFR collectively hereinafter PDGFR . Specifically the level or activity of the growth factors or their receptors in a neurovascular unit of the mammal is antagonized for treatment or prevention of edema or related conditions or alternatively the level or activity of the growth factors or their receptors may be agonized to increase the opening of the BNB such that therapeutic agents have increased access to the neural cells or tissues beyond the BNB.

As indicated above neural edema such as edema in the brain or spinal cord or other CNS tissue or edema related to retina most likely are caused by BNB breach. Accordingly the present invention provides methods and compositions for treating neural edema via PDGF antagonism. Accordingly in a preferred embodiment the present invention provides methods and compositions for the treatment of stroke by decreasing BNB permeability. Although thrombolytic treatments of stroke e.g. using tPA and Desmoteplase DSPA are necessary and beneficial in treating thrombosis edema remains a side effect of stroke therapy and would benefit from antagonism of the PDGFs or PDGFRs. In addition tPA is known to have severe side effects such as neurotoxicity. Accordingly the methods and compositions of the present invention for PDGF antagonism can be used in combination with the thrombolytic treatments to prevent or ameliorate these side effects. In this regard the present invention is based on the surprising discovery that PDGF CC is a downstream effector for tPA activities in vivo. As it is known that tPA increases vascular permeability and may be responsible for edema the present invention provides in one embodiment methods and compositions for treating edema by antagonizing PDGF C activities or PDGF C mediated biochemical physiological or cellular processes. As used in the context of the present invention the term PDGF C antagonist is broadly defined to include antagonists of PDGF receptors as well as agents that inhibit PDGF C activities and its gene transcription translation or PDGF C activation by tPA. PDGF C antagonists can be used to treat edema by specifically reducing vascular permeability caused by tPA such as those encountered in pulmonary embolism cardiovascular diseases head trauma infection other neurological diseases or other diseases where edema is a significant clinical problem.

In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method of using a substance that specifically inhibits tPA proteolysis activation of PDGF CC e.g. an antibody that specifically binds to the proteolytic site of PDGF C or elsewhere on the PDGF C molecule that causes sterical inhibition of proteolytic cleavage for the treatment of edema. For example antibodies and small molecules that bind to PDGF CC especially those that specifically recognize the tPA proteolytic site of PDGF C can be used to inhibit tPA activation of PDGF CC.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides methods and compositions for improving the treatment or extending the treatment window of tPA where thrombolysis is desired by using PDGF CC antagonism to counter tPA s undesirable side effects of increasing vascular permeability. Preferably the present invention provides a combination therapy of ischemic stroke using tPA with a PDGF CC antagonist as broadly defined above .

Accordingly the present invention provides a method for treating edema in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of at least one of a substance that antagonizes PDGF CC activity a substance that inhibits PDGF CC activation a substance that inhibits PDGF CC expression a substance that inhibits PDGFR activity. Preferably the method is used to treat patient suffering from edema ascites hydrothorax hydropericardium cerebral edema hydrocephalus glaucoma acute pulmonary edema different retinopathies including diabetic retinopathy and different maculopathies including AMD. In one embodiment activation of PDGF CC by tPA is inhibited preferably by a PDGF C CUB domain or an antibody against PDGF CC or aptamer that inhibits the binding of tPA to unprocessed PDGF CC or a mutant PDGF C that binds to a PDGF receptor without activating the receptor or a substance inhibits the binding of PDGF C to PDGFR or an antibody that binds to PDGF CC and inhibits tPA proteolysis of PDGF CC. In a particularly preferred embodiment the antibody binds specifically to the tPA proteolytic site of PDGF CC. Suitable substances that inhibit PDGFR may also be an anti PDGFR antibody or a small molecule PDGFR antagonist such as imatinib mesylate. Suitable substances that inhibit PDGFR may also be a soluble PDGFR that only consists of an extracellular domain or is a soluble chimeric PDGFR molecule that only consists of an extracellular domain.

The invention also relates to a composition comprising a PDGF C CUB domain or analog which functions as an inhibitor of PDGF C proteolysis. Such CUB domain molecules including allelic variants and hybridizing sequences bind tPA so that the tPA is sequestered away from the full length PDGF C and thus cannot bring about the proteolytic cleavage of the full length PDGF CC protein.

The present invention further provides a method for decreasing vascular permeability in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of at least one of a substance that antagonizes PDGF CC activity a substance that inhibits PDGF CC activation a substance that inhibits PDGF CC expression a substance that inhibits PDGFR activity.

The present invention further provides a method for treating a cerebrovascular disease comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of tissue plasminogen activator tPA in combination with an effective amount of at least one of a substance that antagonizes PDGF CC activity a substance that inhibits PDGF CC activation a substance that inhibits PDGF CC expression a substance that inhibits PDGFR activity. In preferred embodiments the PDGF C antagonist is an anti PDGF C antibody or an anti PDGFR antibody preferably a monoclonal antibody more preferably a chimeric humanized or fully human antibody. Also suitable substances that inhibit PDGFR may be a soluble PDGFR which only consists of an extracellular domain or is a soluble chimeric PDGFR molecule that only consists of an extracellular domain. The antagonist for the present invention may be administered to the patient in need thereof with tPA concurrently or sequentially either before or after tPA administration .

As it is known that the retina is essentially a part of the brain with many similarities regarding cellular composition etc. and as indicated above there are several well known eye diseases such as different retinopathies including diabetic retinopathy and different macuolopathies including AMD that have a component of initial swelling and edema formation followed by hypoxia of the tissue and undesired induction of angiogenesis. Accordingly in another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating ocular diseases that are caused by or have symptoms related to increased vascular permeability. Preferably the method and compositions of the present invention are used for the treatment of diseases such as diabetic retinopathy or AMD.

A pharmaceutical composition for treating a cerebrovascular disease is also provided by the present invention. The pharmaceutical composition preferably comprises an effective amount of tPA an anti PDGF C antagonist and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. The pharmaceutical composition for reducing vascular permeability preferably comprises an effective amount of tPA an anti PDGFR antagonist and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

While the BNB provides the nervous system with a stable physiologic environment and prevents toxins viruses and other potentially dangerous molecules from entering it also prevents therapeutic molecules including many chemotherapeutic agents that are useful e.g. in treating tumors from crossing into the brain spinal cord or retina. Thus many therapies directed at the brain must be delivered directly into the brain cavity e.g. by an Ommaya reservoir or administered in elevated dosages to ensure the diffusion of an effective amount across the BBB. It would be highly desirable if these therapeutic agents can be administered via conventional routes such intravenous administration. Accordingly in another embodiment the present invention provides a method of increasing BNB permeability or opening via PDGF agonists or PDGF receptor agonists. The present invention further provides method of combination therapy whereby a PDGF agonist or a PDGFR agonist is administered together with a therapeutic agent suitable for treating a condition of the nervous system such as various types of brain tumors Alzheimer s Parkinson s Multiple Sclerosis.

Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention provides a method for modulating permeability of blood neural barrier in a higher vertebrate animal in need thereof comprising modulating in a neurovascular unit of the animal the level or activity of at least one substance selected from the group consisting of PDGF A PDGF B PDGF C PDGF AA PDGF BB PDGF CC PDGFR and PDGFR .

In a preferred embodiment the level or activity of the at least one substance in a neurovascular unit of the mammal is decreased. Preferably the method comprises administering to the animal an effective amount of a substance that antagonizes the activity of PDGF AA PDGF BB or PDGF CC a substance that inhibits the activation of PDGF AA PDGF BB or PDGF CC a substance that inhibits the expression of PDGF A PDGF B or PDGF C a substance that inhibits the expression of PDGFR or PDGFR a substance that inhibits the binding of a PDGF to its receptor or a substance that inhibits the activity of PDGFR or PDGFR . Preferably the substance is delivered directly in the neurovascular unit of the mammal. Preferably the level of PDGF AA PDGF BB or PDGF CC is decreased. Preferably a PDGF antagonist is administered to the animal. Preferably the method comprises administering a PDGFR receptor antagonist to the animal. In one embodiment the binding of a PDGF with its PDGFR is inhibited or the expression of PDGF or PDGFR or both is inhibited via a suitable antisense nucleic acid molecule or a suitable siRNA molecule.

Preferably the function of PDGF or PDGFR or both are inhibited via a suitable antibody or a small molecule antagonist.

Preferably the animal treatable with the method of the present invention is a mammal more preferably the animal is a human.

In preferred embodiments the method is for the treatment of edema. In this context the substance is preferably a substance that antagonizes PDGF CC activity a substance that inhibits PDGF CC activation a substance that inhibits PDGF CC expression a substance that inhibits PDGFR activity or a substance that inhibits the expression of PDGFR .

The method is preferably for treating a patient who suffers from edema ascites hydrothorax hydropericardium cerebral edema hydrocephalus glaucoma acute pulmonary edema a retinopathy or a maculopathy wherein the retinopathy is preferably diabetic retinopathy or the maculopathy is wet age related macular degeneration AMD .

In particular the method according to the present invention inhibits the activation of PDGF CC by tPA.

For inhibiting PDGF CC activation a PDGF C CUB domain a PDGF CC CUB domain or an antibody against PDGF CC or aptamer that inhibits the binding of tPA to unprocessed PDGF CC is preferably used. For inhibiting PDGF CC activation of its receptor a mutant PDGF C that binds to a PDGF receptor without activating the receptor or a substance that inhibits the binding of PDGF C to PDGFR may preferably used including but not limited to an antibody that binds to PDGF CC and inhibits tPA proteolysis of PDGF CC or an antibody that sterically blocks the biding of PDGF C with PDGFR . An antibody binds specifically to the tPA proteolytic site of PDGF CC is preferred. An anti PDGFR antibody or a small molecule PDGFR antagonist such as imatinib mesylate may also be used.

The method of the present invention is preferably used for treating a cerebrovascular disease the method comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an thrombolytically effective amount of a thrombolytic agent in combination with an effective amount of at least one of a substance that antagonizes PDGF CC activity a substance that inhibits PDGF CC activation a substance that inhibits PDGF CC expression a substance that inhibits PDGFR activity and a substance that inhibits the expression of PDGFR . The thrombolytic agent is preferably tissue plasminogen activator tPA or desmoteplase DSPA . Preferably a PDGF C antagonist or a PDGFR antagonist such as a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor e.g. STI 571 or CP 673 451 may be used.

The method of the present invention is particularly suitable for treating ischemic stoke. Specifically the function of PDGF CC signaling in the brain of the patient is inhibited and permeability of blood brain barrier in the patient is decreased.

Preferably the PDGF C antagonist is an anti PDGF C antibody or an anti PDGFR antibody or a soluble PDGFR that only consists of an extracellular domain or is a soluble chimeric PDGFR molecule that only consists of an extracellular domain. The antibody is preferably a monoclonal antibody more preferably a chimeric humanized or fully human antibody.

The antagonist for the present invention may be administered with the tPA concurrently or sequentially.

The present invention further provides a pharmaceutical composition for treating a cerebrovascular disease or for reducing vascular permeability wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises an effective amount of tPA or DSPA a PDGF C antagonist and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. The composition is particularly suitable for treating ischemic stroke.

The present invention further provides a pharmaceutical for the treatment of edema wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises an effective amount of a PDGF antagonist or PDGFR antagonist and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Preferably the edema is associated with cerebral edema stroke ischemic retinopathy diabetic retinopathy pulmonary embolism a cardiovascular disease head trauma or infection.

The present invention in an alternative embodiment provides a method for increasing the level or activity PDGF or its receptors in a neurovascular unit of the mammal is increased whereby vascular permeability of blood neural barrier BNB in the mammal is increased. Preferably the method comprises administering to the mammal an effective amount of a substance selected from the group of PDGF AA PDGF BB and PDGF CC or an effective amount of a substance that activates PDGF AA PDGF BB or PDGF CC or a substance that increases the expression of PDGF AA PDGF BB or PDGF CC. Preferably the method comprises administering to the mammal an effective amount of a substance selected from the group consisting of activated PDGF AA PDGF BB and PDGF CC.

The method of the present invention for increasing PDGF or PDGF level or activity is preferably used for treating a CNS disease whereby delivering a therapeutic agent to the CNS is facilitated. Preferably the vascular permeability of the BNB in the patient is increased before the therapeutic agent is delivered or the vascular permeability of the BNB in the patient is increased concurrently with the delivery of the therapeutic agent. In one embodiment the therapeutic agent is an anticancer agent.

The method of the present invention for increasing PDGF or PDGF level or activity is preferably used for promoting peripheral nerve regeneration.

In another preferred embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for treating a CNS disease comprising an effective amount of PDGF agonist for increasing vascular permeability of the BNB in a patient a therapeutic agent for the CNS disease and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Other advantages and preferred embodiments of the present invention are further described in more detail below.

Platelet derived Growth Factor Platelet derived growth factors PDGFs were discovered more than two decades ago. Today the PDGF family of growth factors consists of five different disulphide linked dimers built up of four different polypeptide chains encoded by four different genes. These isoforms PDGF AA PDGF AB PDGF BB PDGF CC and PDGF DD act via two receptor tyrosine kinases PDGF receptors PDGFR and . The classic PDGFs PDGF AA PDGF AB and PDGF BB undergo intracellular activation during transport in the exocytic pathway for subsequent secretion while the novel PDGFs PDGF C and PDGF D are secreted as latent factors that require activation by extracellular proteases. The classical PDGF polypeptide chains PDGF A and PDGF B are well studied and they regulate several physiological and pathophysiological processes mainly using cells of mesenchymal or neuroectodermal origin as their targets. The discovery of two additional ligands for the two PDGF receptors suggests that PDGF mediated cellular signaling is more complex than previously thought. Fredriksson et al. 2004 The PDGF family four gene products form five dimeric isoforms 15 197 204 . As used in the context of the present invention the term PDGF refers to any of the above five isoforms.

The amino acid sequences of PDGF AA and BB and their post translational processing are well known in the art see e.g. Johnsson et al. 1984 EMBO J. 3 921 928 U.S. Pat. No. 5 219 759 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 083 910 . The mature A chain consists of a 104 amino acid polypeptide that is derived by proteolytic processing of a 211 amino acid precursor polypeptide. The cDNA encoding the PDGF B chain has also been described Nature 1985 316 748 750 . The mature B chain consists of a 109 amino acid polypeptide that is derived by proteolytic processing of a 241 amino acid precursor polypeptide. The mature A and B chains of PDGF show sequence identity of 51 with the eight cysteine residues being conserved in each of the chains Johnsson et al. 1984 EMBO J. 3 921 928 . The native protein occurs as the homodimer AA or BB or the heterodimer AB or a mixture thereof.

PDGF C is a member of the PDGF VEGF family of growth factors. PDGF C as well as the nucleotide sequence encoding it are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 852 209 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. PDGF C is one of four known members in the PDGF family of growth factors which are known mitogens and survival factors for cells of mesenchymal origin. PDGF C has a unique two domain structure consisting of an N terminal CUB and a conserved C terminal growth factor domain that are separated by a hinge region. PDGF C is secreted as a latent dimeric factor PDGF CC which undergoes extracellular removal of the CUB domains to become a PDGF receptor a PDGFR agonist. tPA a multidomain serine protease tissue plasminogen activator and a thrombolytic agent used for treatment of acute ischemic stroke was recently shown to cleave and activate PDGF CC see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 971 705 incorporated herein by reference .

It has been shown that both the CUB and the growth factor domains of PDGF C as well as the kringle 2 domain of tPA are required for the interaction and cleavage to occur. Specifically Arg231 in PDGF C is essential for tPA mediated proteolysis and that the released free CUB domain of PDGF C can act as a competitive inhibitor of the cleavage reaction.

In one embodiment the present invention provides methods of treatment based on PDGF antagonism i.e. antagonizing PDGF activities or antagonizing PDGF mediated biochemical physiological pathophysiological or cellular processes e.g. by inhibiting or antagonizing the PDGFR activities inhibiting PDGF receptor production or inhibiting the binding of PDGF to a receptor or by inhibiting PDGF activation or by inhibiting PDGF production in vivo either at the gene transcription level or translation level or both.

The methods and compositions of the present invention can be used to treat CNS disease such as brain edema stroke ischemic retinopathies diabetic retinopathy Alzheimer s disease multiple sclerosis and tumors of the CNS.

The method of the present invention is especially suitable for treating cerebral edema pulmonary embolism cardiovascular diseases head trauma infection neurological diseases or other diseases where edema is a significant clinical problem. In a particularly preferred embodiment the present invention is used for the treatment of cerebral edema.

The method of the present invention may also be used for treating localized or restricted edema such as edema ascites hydrothorax hydropericardium cerebral edema hydrocephalus glaucoma or acute pulmonary edema as well as generalized or systemic such as anasarca or hydrops.

Cerebral or brain edemas that may benefit from anti PDGF receptor alpha or anti PDGF CC treatment of the present invention additionally may include but are not limited to ischemic brain edema due to cerebral malaria infection which kills many children in developing countries see Penet et al. Imaging experimental cerebral malaria in vivo significant role of ischemic brain edema. J. Neurosci. 2005 25 7352 8 brain edema in acute hepatic failure see Vaquero et al. Brain edema in acute liver failure. A window to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. Ann. Hepatol. 2003 2 12 22 edema resulted from brain surgery which in many aspects resembles brain trauma edema caused by intracranial tumors see Papadopoulos et al. Molecular mechanisms of brain tumor edema. Neuroscience. 2004 129 1011 20 and high altitude cerebral edema see Hackett and Roach. High altitude cerebral edema. High. Alt. Med. Biol. 2004 5 136 46 .

Preferably PDGF antagonists or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a PDGF antagonist is delivered to the edema sites for example by direct injection into the cerebrospinal fluid CSF in the case of cerebral edema or via intravascular administration or even intranasal delivery which has been demonstrated to successfully reach the BNB.

The present inventors discovered that active PDGF CC given directly in the CSF is a potent inducer of opening of BBB and that both tPA and PDGF CC are found to be able to open the BBB but that their effects are not synergistic or additive. More importantly it has been surprisingly discovered that PDGF C antagonists if administered together with tPA dramatically reduces the BNB opening effect of tPA.

The methods and compositions of the present invention can be used to treat edema by specifically reducing vascular permeability caused by tPA. The method of the present invention may be used for treating localized or restricted edema such as edema ascites hydrothorax hydropericardium cerebral edema hydrocephalus glaucoma or acute pulmonary edema as well as generalized or systemic such as anasarca or hydrops. The method of the present invention is especially suitable for treating cerebral edema pulmonary embolism cardiovascular diseases head trauma infection neurological diseases or other diseases where edema is a significant clinical problem. In a particularly preferred embodiment the present invention is used for the treatment of cerebral edema.

Cerebral or brain edemas that may benefit from anti PDGF receptor alpha or anti PDGF CC treatment of the present invention additionally may include but are not limited to ischemic brain edema due to cerebral malaria infection which kills many children in developing countries see Penet et al. Imaging experimental cerebral malaria in vivo significant role of ischemic brain edema. J. Neurosci. 2005 25 7352 8 brain edema in acute hepatic failure see Vaquero et al. Brain edema in acute liver failure. A window to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. Ann. Hepatol. 2003 2 12 22 edema resulted from brain surgery which in many aspects resembles brain trauma edema caused by intracranial tumors see Papadopoulos et al. Molecular mechanisms of brain tumor edema. Neuroscience. 2004 129 1011 20 and high altitude cerebral edema see Hackett and Roach. High altitude cerebral edema. High. Alt. Med. Biol. 2004 5 136 46 .

Preferably PDGF C antagonists or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a PDGF C antagonist is delivered to the edema sites for example by direct injection into the cerebrospinal fluid CSF in the case of cerebral edema or via intravascular administration or even intranasal delivery which has been demonstrated to successfully reach the BNB especially BBB.

The therapeutic function of tPA in cerebrovascular diseases especially ischemic stroke lies with its thrombolytic activity while its adverse side effects are due to its effect in increasing vascular permeability and inducing the opening of the blood brain barrier BBB . U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 971 705 Fredriksson et al. discloses that tPA has the unique capability to proteolytically cleave the CUB domain of the latent PDGF CC thereby activating the growth factor. The present inventors have previously demonstrated that tPA is able to open blood brain barrier BBB if administered directly into the CSF see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 540 .

Based on the discovery that PDGF CC is a downstream effector of tPA the present invention further provides methods and related compositions for reducing or even eliminating the adverse side effects of tPA for treating ischemic stroke patients or other patients where cerebral edema is a significant problem by antagonizing the function of PDGF CC in the brain when the patient is undergoing tPA treatment.

Because tPA requires PDGF CC as its down stream effector for BBB opening or increased vascular permeability antagonizing PDGF C or the signaling pathway it regulates would counteract the adverse side effects of tPA in ischemic stroke treatment due to undesirable BBB opening while maintaining the desirable thrombolytic activities.

Because PDGF CC is not involved in mediating the proteolytic function of tPA i.e. its serine protease activity in dissolving the blood clot formed as a consequence of stroke co administration of a PDGF C antagonist with tPA would not negatively affect its thrombolytic activities. In particular an antagonist of PDGF CC combined with tPA can be used to extend the therapeutic window of tPA treatment in ischemic stroke.

DSPA a member of the plasminogen activator family and is structurally similar to tPA has been shown to function similarly to tPA with fewer to no neurotoxic side effects. Reddrop et al. 2005 Vampire bat salivary plasminogen activator desmoteplase inhibits tissue type plasminogen activator induced potentiation of excitotoxic injury Stroke 36 1241 1246 . Although DSPA does not have the neurotoxic side effects that tPA has it does not have any therapeutic effect on edema either. Accordingly its use as a thrombolytic agent would also benefit from antagonism of the PDGF C signaling pathway as well.

As discussed above any substance that either inhibits a PDGF function directly or prevents production or its activation is a suitable antagonist for the method and compositions of the present invention. A suitable PDGF antagonist for the present invention may be antibodies or small molecules that inhibit PDGF activation or its binding to PDGFR.

Various methods of producing antibodies with a known antigen are well known to those ordinarily skilled in the art see for example Harlow and Lane 1988 Antibodies A Laboratory Manual. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. see also WO 01 25437 . In accordance with the present invention the antibodies or binding fragments thereof may be characterized as those which are capable of specific binding to the PDGF protein or an antigenic fragment thereof preferably an epitope that is recognized by an antibody when the antibody is administered in vivo. Antibodies can be elicited in an animal host by immunization with a target protein derived immunogenic component or can be formed by in vitro immunization sensitization of immune cells. The antibodies can also be produced in recombinant systems in which the appropriate cell lines are transformed transfected infected or transduced with appropriate antibody encoding DNA. Alternatively the antibodies can be constructed by biochemical reconstitution of purified heavy and light chains. In particular suitable antibodies may be produced by chemical synthesis by intracellular immunization i.e. intrabody technology or preferably by recombinant expression techniques. Methods of producing antibodies may further include the hybridoma technology well known in the art.

The antibodies could be polyclonal or monoclonal. The antibodies may be from humans or from animals other than humans preferably mammals such as rat mouse guinea pig rabbit goat sheep and pig. Preferred are mouse monoclonal antibodies and antigen binding fragments or portions thereof. In addition chimeric antibodies and hybrid antibodies are embraced by the present invention. Techniques for the production of chimeric antibodies are described in e.g. Morrison et al. 1984 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81 6851 6855 Neuberger et al. 1984 Nature 312 604 608 and Takeda et al. 1985 Nature 314 452 454. For human therapeutic purposes humanized or more preferably human antibodies are used.

Further single chain antibodies are also suitable for the present invention e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 476 786 and 5 132 405 to Huston Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 5879 5883 U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 to Ladner et al. Bird 1988 Science 242 423 426 and Ward et al. 1989 Nature 334 544 546 . Single chain antibodies are formed by linking the heavy and light immunoglobulin chain fragments of the Fv region via an amino acid bridge resulting in a single chain polypeptide. Univalent antibodies are also embraced by the present invention.

Many routes of delivery are known to the skilled artisan for delivery of anti target antibodies. For example direct injection may be suitable for delivering the antibody to the site of interest. It is also possible to utilize liposomes with antibodies in their membranes to specifically deliver the liposome to the area where target gene expression or function is to be inhibited. These liposomes can be produced such that they contain in addition to monoclonal antibody other therapeutic agents such as those described above which would then be released at the target site e.g. Wolff et al. 1984 Biochem. et Biophys. Acta 802 259 .

In one embodiment the antibodies or small molecules suitable for the present invention target the site of proteolysis in PDGF C. Such antibodies and small molecules essentially protect the site of PDGF C proteolysis by binding to it and thereby preventing tPA binding and subsequent cleavage. A peptide sequence either a monomer or a dimer which includes the site of PDGF C proteolysis can be used as an antigen for generation of such antibodies.

The antibodies should preferably recognize the PDGF C proteolytic site. As Arg231 in PDGF C is essential for tPA mediated proteolysis a preferred target for the antagonist comprises amino acids 231 234 of PDGF C especially preferably amino acids 231 235 of PDGF C. However any antibody or small molecule which binds to any 4 or 5 consecutive amino acids within the range from amino acid 228 to amino acid 238 of PDGF C could function as an effective antagonist to prevent proteolytic cleavage of PDGF C. Alternatively an antibody is also suitable which though not specific for the PDGF C proteolytic site can sterically block PDGF C s interaction with the receptor.

As the PDGF C CUB domain functions as an inhibitor of PDGF C proteolysis it is also suitable as a PDGF C antagonist for the present invention. Such CUB domain molecules including allelic variants bind competitively to tPA so that the tPA is sequestered away from the full length PDGF C and thus cannot bring about the proteolytic cleavage of the full length PDGF C protein.

Another class of antagonists suitable for the present invention includes substances that inhibit downstream signaling of PDGFR. Antagonists to PDGFR are known and available to those skilled in the art. For example Axitinib AG 013736 is a known small molecule inhibitor of the receptor tyrosine kinase with nanomolar potency against PDGFR see e.g. Spano et al. 2006 A phase I study of Axitinib AG 013736 a potent inhibitor of VEGFRs in combination with gemcitabine GEM in patients pts with advanced pancreatic cancer. J. Clin. Oncol. 24 13092 . Also numerous anti PDGFR antibodies are available including anti human PDGFR polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies that can be obtained commercially from R D Systems Inc. Minneapolis Minn. and IMC 3G3 a fully human IgG1 monoclonal antibody against PDGFR available from Imclone Inc. Examples of anti PDGFR antibodies include CDP860 a humanized engineered Fab fragment polyethylene glycol conjugate which binds to and blocks the activity of PDGFR see e.g. Jayson et al. J. Clin. Oncol. 2005 23 973 81 and monoclonal antibodies APA5 and APB5 against murine PDGFR and PDGFR respectively see Sano et al. Circulation. 2001 103 2955 60 .

Many small molecules that inhibit receptor tyrosine kinase activities are also known and available to those skilled in the art and can be used for the present inventive method. These small molecules in general share the same basic mechanism of action i.e. inhibiting the tyrosine kinase activity of the receptor tyrosine kinases and many of the small molecule compounds are able to inhibit several tyrosine kinases. For example imatinib mesylate also known as Gleevec or STI 571 is known to at least partially inhibit PDGFR . Another PDGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor CP 673 451 is described in Roberts et al. Cancer Res. 2005 65 957 66. Other such small molecules include but are not limited to SU11248 Mendel et al. In vivo antitumor activity of SU11248 a novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet derived growth factor receptors determination of a pharmacokinetic pharmacodynamic relationship. Clin Cancer Res. 2003 9 327 37 AMG 706 Polverino et al. AMG 706 an Oral Multikinase Inhibitor that Selectively Targets Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Platelet Derived Growth Factor and Kit Receptors Potently Inhibits Angiogenesis and Induces Regression in Tumor Xenografts. Cancer Res. 2006 66 8715 21 Sorafenib Adnane et al. Sorafenib BAY 43 9006 Nexavar a Dual Action Inhibitor That Targets RAF MEK ERK Pathway in Tumor Cells and Tyrosine Kinases VEGFR PDGFR in Tumor Vasculature. Methods Enzymol. 2005 407 597 612 ABT 869 Albert et al. Preclinical activity of ABT 869 a multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Mol Cancer Ther. 2006 5 995 1006 PTK787 ZK 222584 Roboz et al. Phase 1 study of PTK787 ZK 222584 a small molecule tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome. Leukemia. 2006 20 952 7 and BMS 354825 Chen et al. Potent inhibition of platelet derived growth factor induced responses in vascular smooth muscle cells by BMS 354825 dasatinib . Mol Pharmacol. 2006 69 1527 33 .

Mutant PDGF that binds to the receptor but fails to activate the receptor a dominant negative mutant may also be used as a PDGF antagonist. Similarly a soluble PDGFR or PDGFR that only consists of extracellular domain of this receptor can be used to block PDGF function a decoy receptor may be used.

Antibodies used in the invention are preferably chimeric or humanized or fully human antibodies. The antagonists useful in the invention also may include various fragments of immunoglobulin or antibodies known in the art i.e. Fab Fab F ab Fv Fe Fd scFvs etc. A Fab fragment is a multimeric protein consisting of the immunologically active portions of an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region and an immunoglobulin light chain variable region covalently coupled together and capable of specifically binding to an antigen. Fab fragments are generated via proteolytic cleavage with for example papain of an intact immunoglobulin molecule. An Fabfragment comprises two joined Fab fragments. When these two fragments are joined by the immunoglobulin hinge region an F ab 2 fragment results. An Fv fragment is a multimeric protein consisting of the immunologically active portions of an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region and an immunoglobulin light chain variable region covalently coupled together and capable of specifically binding to an antigen. A fragment could also be a single chain polypeptide containing only one light chain variable region or a fragment thereof that contains the three CDRs of the light chain variable region without an associated heavy chain moiety or a single chain polypeptides containing only one heavy chain variable region or a fragment thereof containing the three CDRs of the heavy chain variable region without an associated light chain moiety and multi specific antibodies formed from antibody fragments this has for example been described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 248 516. Fv fragments or single region domain fragments are typically generated by expression in host cell lines of the relevant identified regions. These and other immunoglobulin or antibody fragments are within the scope of the invention and are described in standard immunology textbooks such as Paul Fundamental Immunology or Janeway et al. Immunobiology cited above . Molecular biology now allows direct synthesis via expression in cells or chemically of these fragments as well as synthesis of combinations thereof.

Antibodies suitable for the present invention may be single chain antibodies or single domain antibodies.

Several methodologies are known to those ordinarily skilled in the art to inhibit the expression of a gene either at the transcription level or the translation level if the identity and sequence of the gene is known. Accordingly in one embodiment this invention also provides antisense nucleic acid molecules and compositions comprising such antisense molecules for the inhibition of the expression of PDGF PDGFR or a molecule that is known to activate PDGF e.g. tPA for PDGF C preferably at the site where PDGF antagonism is desired especially at or near the neurovascular unit.

Constitutive expression of antisense RNA in cells has been known to inhibit gene expression possibly via blockage of translation or prevention of splicing. Interference with splicing allows the use of intron sequences which should be less conserved and therefore result in greater specificity inhibiting expression of a gene product of one species but not its homologue in another species.

The term antisense component corresponds to an RNA sequence as well as a DNA sequence which is sufficiently complementary to a particular mRNA molecule for which the antisense RNA is specific to cause molecular hybridization between the antisense RNA and the mRNA such that translation of the mRNA is inhibited. Such hybridization can occur under in vivo conditions. This antisense molecule must have sufficient complementarity about 18 30 nucleotides in length to the target gene so that the antisense RNA can hybridize to the target gene or mRNA and inhibit target gene expression regardless of whether the action is at the level of splicing transcription or translation. The antisense components of the present invention may be hybridizable to any of several portions of the target cDNA including the coding sequence 3 or 5 untranslated regions or other intronic sequences or to target mRNA.

Antisense RNA is delivered to a cell by transformation or transfection via a vector including retroviral vectors and plasmids into which has been placed DNA encoding the antisense RNA with the appropriate regulatory sequences including a promoter to result in expression of the antisense RNA in a host cell. In one embodiment stable transfection and constitutive expression of vectors containing target cDNA fragments in the antisense orientation are achieved or such expression may be under the control of tissue or development specific promoters. Delivery can also be achieved by liposomes.

For in vivo therapy the currently preferred method is direct delivery of antisense oligonucleotides instead of stable transfection of an antisense cDNA fragment constructed into an expression vector. Antisense oligonucleotides having a size of 15 30 bases in length and with sequences hybridizable to any of several portions of the target cDNA including the coding sequence 3 or 5 untranslated regions or other intronic sequences or to target mRNA are preferred. Sequences for the antisense oligonucleotides to target are preferably selected as being the ones that have the most potent antisense effects. Factors that govern a target site for the antisense oligonucleotide sequence include the length of the oligonucleotide binding affinity and accessibility of the target sequence. Sequences may be screened in vitro for potency of their antisense activity by measuring inhibition of target protein translation and target related phenotype e.g. inhibition of cell proliferation in cells in culture. In general it is known that most regions of the RNA 5 and 3 untranslated regions AUG initiation coding splice junctions and introns can be targeted using antisense oligonucleotides.

The preferred target antisense oligonucleotides are those oligonucleotides which are stable have a high resistance to nucleases possess suitable pharmacokinetics to allow them to traffic to target tissue site at non toxic doses and have the ability to cross through plasma membranes.

Phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotides may be used. Modifications of the phosphodiester linkage as well as of the heterocycle or the sugar may provide an increase in efficiency. Phophorothioate is used to modify the phosphodiester linkage. An N3 P5 phosphoramidate linkage has been described as stabilizing oligonucleotides to nucleases and increasing the binding to RNA. Peptide nucleic acid PNA linkage is a complete replacement of the ribose and phosphodiester backbone and is stable to nucleases increases the binding affinity to RNA and does not allow cleavage by RNAse H. Its basic structure is also amenable to modifications that may allow its optimization as an antisense component. With respect to modifications of the heterocycle certain heterocycle modifications have proven to augment antisense effects without interfering with RNAse H activity. An example of such modification is C 6 thiazole modification. Finally modification of the sugar may also be considered. 2 O propyl and 2 methoxyethoxy ribose modifications stabilize oligonucleotides to nucleases in cell culture and in vivo.

The delivery route will be the one that provides the best antisense effect as measured according to the criteria described above. In vitro and in vivo assays using antisense oligonucleotides have shown that delivery mediated by cationic liposomes by retroviral vectors and direct delivery are efficient. Another possible delivery mode is targeting using an antibody to cell surface markers for the target cells. Antibody to the target or to its receptor may serve this purpose.

Other nucleic acid sequences which inhibit or interfere with gene expression e.g. siRNA ribozymes and aptamers can also be used to inhibit or interfere with the activity of RNA or DNA encoding a target protein.

siRNA technology relates to a process of sequence specific post transcriptional gene repression which can occur in eukaryotic cells. In general this process involves degradation of an mRNA of a particular sequence induced by double stranded RNA dsRNA that is homologous to that sequence. For example the expression of a long dsRNA corresponding to the sequence of a particular single stranded mRNA ss mRNA will labilize that message thereby interfering with expression of the corresponding gene. Accordingly any selected gene may be repressed by introducing a dsRNA which corresponds to all or a substantial part of the mRNA for that gene. It appears that when a long dsRNA is expressed it is initially processed by a ribonuclease III into shorter dsRNA oligonucleotides of as few as 21 to 22 base pairs in length. Accordingly siRNA may be effected by introduction or expression of relatively short homologous dsRNAs. Indeed the use of relatively short homologous dsRNAs may have certain advantages as discussed below.

Mammalian cells have at least two pathways that are affected by double stranded RNA dsRNA . In the siRNA sequence specific pathway the initiating dsRNA is first broken into short interfering si RNAs as described above. The siRNAs have sense and antisense strands of about 21 nucleotides that form approximately 19 nucleotide siRNAs with overhangs of two nucleotides at each 3 end. Short interfering RNAs are thought to provide the sequence information that allows a specific messenger RNA to be targeted for degradation. In contrast the nonspecific pathway is triggered by dsRNA of any sequence as long as it is at least about 30 base pairs in length.

The nonspecific effects occur because dsRNA activates two enzymes PKR which in its active form phosphorylates the translation initiation factor eIF2 to shut down all protein synthesis and 2 5 oligoadenylate synthetase 2 5 AS which synthesizes a molecule that activates RNase L a nonspecific enzyme that targets all mRNAs. The nonspecific pathway may represent a host response to stress or viral infection and in general the effects of the nonspecific pathway are preferably minimized. Significantly longer dsRNAs appear to be required to induce the nonspecific pathway and accordingly dsRNAs shorter than about 30 bases pairs are preferred to effect gene repression by RNAi see Hunter et al. 1975 J. Biol. Chem. 250 409 17 Manche et al. 1992 Mol. Cell. Biol. 12 5239 48 Minks et al. 1979 J. Biol. Chem. 254 10180 3 and Elbashir et al. 2001 Nature 411 494 8 . siRNA has proven to be an effective means of decreasing gene expression in a variety of cell types including HeLa cells NIH 3T3 cells COS cells 293 cells and BHK 21 cells and typically decreases expression of a gene to lower levels than that achieved using antisense techniques and indeed frequently eliminates expression entirely see Bass 2001 Nature 411 428 9 . In mammalian cells siRNAs are effective at concentrations that are several orders of magnitude below the concentrations typically used in antisense experiments Elbashir et al. 2001 Nature 411 494 8 .

The double stranded oligonucleotides used to effect RNAi are preferably less than 30 base pairs in length and more preferably comprise about 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 or 17 base pairs of ribonucleic acid. Optionally the dsRNA oligonucleotides may include 3 overhang ends. Exemplary 2 nucleotide 3 overhangs may be composed of ribonucleotide residues of any type and may even be composed of 2 deoxythymidine resides which lowers the cost of RNA synthesis and may enhance nuclease resistance of siRNAs in the cell culture medium and within transfected cells see Elbashi et al. 2001 Nature 411 494 8 .

Longer dsRNAs of 50 75 100 or even 500 base pairs or more may also be utilized in certain embodiments of the invention. Exemplary concentrations of dsRNAs for effecting RNAi are about 0.05 nM 0.1 nM 0.5 nM 1.0 nM 1.5 nM 25 nM or 100 nM although other concentrations may be utilized depending upon the nature of the cells treated the gene target and other factors readily discernable to the skilled artisan.

Exemplary dsRNAs may be synthesized chemically or produced in vitro or in vivo using appropriate expression vectors. Exemplary synthetic RNAs include 21 nucleotide RNAs chemically synthesized using methods known in the art. Synthetic oligonucleotides are preferably deprotected and gel purified using methods known in the art see e.g. Elbashir et al. 2001 Genes Dev. 15 188 200 . Longer RNAs may be transcribed from promoters such as T7 RNA polymerase promoters known in the art. A single RNA target placed in both possible orientations downstream of an in vitro promoter will transcribe both strands of the target to create a dsRNA oligonucleotide of the desired target sequence. Any of the above RNA species will be designed to include a portion of nucleic acid sequence represented in a target nucleic acid.

The specific sequence utilized in design of the oligonucleotides may be any contiguous sequence of nucleotides contained within the expressed gene message of the target. Programs and algorithms known in the art may be used to select appropriate target sequences. In addition optimal sequences may be selected utilizing programs designed to predict the secondary structure of a specified single stranded nucleic acid sequence and allowing selection of those sequences likely to occur in exposed single stranded regions of a folded mRNA. Methods and compositions for designing appropriate oligonucleotides may be found for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 251 588 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Although mRNAs are generally thought of as linear molecules containing the information for directing protein synthesis within the sequence of ribonucleotides most mRNAs have been shown to contain a number of secondary and tertiary structures. Secondary structural elements in RNA are formed largely by Watson Crick type interactions between different regions of the same RNA molecule. Important secondary structural elements include intramolecular double stranded regions hairpin loops bulges in duplex RNA and internal loops. Tertiary structural elements are formed when secondary structural elements come in contact with each other or with single stranded regions to produce a more complex three dimensional structure. A number of researchers have measured the binding energies of a large number of RNA duplex structures and have derived a set of rules which can be used to predict the secondary structure of RNA see e.g. Jaeger et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 7706 and Turner et al. 1988 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biophys. Chem. 17 167 . The rules are useful in identification of RNA structural elements and in particular for identifying single stranded RNA regions which may represent preferred segments of the mRNA to target for siRNA ribozyme or antisense technologies. Accordingly preferred segments of the mRNA target can be identified for design of the siRNA mediating dsRNA oligonucleotides as well as for design of appropriate ribozyme and hammerhead ribozyme compositions of the invention see below .

The dsRNA oligonucleotides may be introduced into the cell by transfection with a heterologous target gene using carrier compositions such as liposomes which are known in the art e.g. Lipofectamine 2000 Life Technologies as described by the manufacturer for adherent cell lines. Transfection of dsRNA oligonucleotides for targeting endogenous genes may be carried out using Oligofectamine Life Technologies . Transfection efficiency may be checked using fluorescence microscopy for mammalian cell lines after co transfection of hGFP encoding pAD3 Kehlenback et al. 1998 J. Cell Biol. 141 863 74 . The effectiveness of the siRNA may be assessed by any of a number of assays following introduction of the dsRNAs. These include Western blot analysis using antibodies which recognize the target gene product following sufficient time for turnover of the endogenous pool after new protein synthesis is repressed reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Northern blot analysis to determine the level of existing target mRNA.

Further compositions methods and applications of siRNA technology are provided in U.S. patent application Nos. 6 278 039 5 723 750 and 5 244 805 which are incorporated herein by reference.

Ribozymes are enzymatic RNA molecules capable of catalyzing specific cleavage of RNA. For a review see Rossi 1994 Current Biology 4 469 471 . The mechanism of ribozyme action involves sequence specific hybridization of the ribozyme molecule to complementary target RNA followed by an endonucleolytic cleavage event. The composition of ribozyme molecules preferably includes one or more sequences complementary to a target mRNA and the well known catalytic sequence responsible for mRNA cleavage or a functionally equivalent sequence see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 093 246 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Ribozyme molecules designed to catalytically cleave target mRNA transcripts can also be used to prevent translation of subject target mRNAs.

While ribozymes that cleave mRNA at site specific recognition sequences can be used to destroy target mRNAs the use of hammerhead ribozymes is preferred. Hammerhead ribozymes cleave mRNAs at locations dictated by flanking regions that form complementary base pairs with the target mRNA. Preferably the target mRNA has the following sequence of two bases 5 UG 3 . The construction and production of hammerhead ribozymes is well known in the art and is described more fully in Haseloff and Gerlach 1988 Nature 334 585 591 and PCT Application. No. WO89 05852 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Hammerhead ribozyme sequences can be embedded in a stable RNA such as a transfer RNA tRNA to increase cleavage efficiency in vivo Perriman et al. 1995 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92 6175 79 de Feyter and Gaudron Methods in Molecular Biology Vol. 74 Chapter 43 Expressing Ribozymes in Plants Edited by Turner P. C Humana Press Inc. Totowa N.J. . In particular RNA polymerase III mediated expression of tRNA fusion ribozymes are well known in the art see Kawasaki et al. 1998 Nature 393 284 9 Kuwabara et al. 1998 Nature Biotechnol. 16 961 5 and Kuwabara et al. 1998 Mol. Cell 2 617 27 Koseki et al. 1999 J. Virol 73 1868 77 Kuwabara et al. 1999 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96 1886 91 Tanabe et al. 2000 Nature 406 473 4 . There are typically a number of potential hammerhead ribozyme cleavage sites within a given target cDNA sequence. Preferably the ribozyme is engineered so that the cleavage recognition site is located near the 5 end of the target mRNA to increase efficiency and minimize the intracellular accumulation of non functional mRNA transcripts. Furthermore the use of any cleavage recognition site located in the target sequence encoding different portions of the target mRNA would allow the selective targeting of one or the other target genes.

Gene targeting ribozymes necessarily contain a hybridizing region complementary to two regions each of at least 5 and preferably each 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 contiguous nucleotides in length of a target mRNA. In addition ribozymes possess highly specific endoribonuclease activity which autocatalytically cleaves the target sense mRNA.

The ribozymes of the present invention also include RNA endoribonucleases Cech type ribozymes such as the one which occurs naturally in known as the IVS or L 19 IVS RNA and which has been extensively described in Zaug et al. 1984 Science 224 574 578 Zaug et al. 1986 Science 231 470 475 Zaug et al. 1986 Nature 324 429 433 published International patent application No. WO88 04300 and Been et al. 1986 Cell 47 207 216 . The Cech type ribozymes have an eight base pair active site which hybridizes to a target RNA sequence whereafter cleavage of the target RNA takes place. The invention encompasses those Cech type ribozymes which target eight base pair active site sequences that are present in a target gene or nucleic acid sequence.

Ribozymes can be composed of modified oligonucleotides e.g. for improved stability targeting etc. and should be delivered to cells which express the target gene in vivo. A preferred method of delivery involves using a DNA construct encoding the ribozyme under the control of a strong constitutive promoter so that transfected cells will produce sufficient quantities of the ribozyme to destroy endogenous target messages and inhibit translation. Because ribozymes unlike antisense molecules are catalytic a lower intracellular concentration is required for efficiency.

In certain embodiments a ribozyme may be designed by first identifying a sequence portion sufficient to cause effective knockdown by RNAi. The same sequence portion may then be incorporated into a ribozyme. In this aspect of the invention the gene targeting portions of the ribozyme or siRNA are substantially the same sequence of at least 5 and preferably 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 or more contiguous nucleotides of a target nucleic acid.

In a long target RNA chain significant numbers of target sites are not accessible to the ribozyme because they are hidden within secondary or tertiary structures Birikh et al. 1997 Eur. J. Biochem. 245 1 16 . To overcome the problem of target RNA accessibility computer generated predictions of secondary structure are typically used to identify targets that are most likely to be single stranded or have an open configuration see Jaeger et al. 1989 Methods Enzymol. 183 281 306 . Other approaches utilize a systematic approach to predicting secondary structure which involves assessing a huge number of candidate hybridizing oligonucleotides molecules see Milner et al. 1997 Nat. Biotechnol. 15 537 41 and Patzel and Sczakiel 1998 Nat. Biotechnol. 16 64 8 . Additionally U.S. Pat. No. 6 251 588 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference describes methods for evaluating oligonucleotide probe sequences so as to predict the potential for hybridization to a target nucleic acid sequence. The method of the invention provides for the use of such methods to select preferred segments of a target mRNA sequence that are predicted to be single stranded and further for the opportunistic utilization of the same or substantially identical target mRNA sequence preferably comprising about 10 20 consecutive nucleotides of the target mRNA in the design of both the siRNA oligonucleotides and ribozymes of the invention.

Another class of substances that serve as PDGF antagonists are aptamers. Aptamers are chemically synthesized usually short strands of oligonucleotides DNA or RNA that can adopt highly specific three dimensional conformations. Aptamers are designed to have appropriate binding affinities and specificities towards certain target molecules and can be selected via the Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichments SELEX process. SELEX is a method of the in vitro evolution of nucleic acid molecules with highly specific binding to target molecules and is described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 475 096 5 580 737 5 567 588 5 707 796 5 763 177 6 011 577 and 6 699 843 incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. An aptamer has a unique sequence has the property of binding specifically to a desired target compound and is a specific ligand of a given target compound or molecule. The SELEX process is based on the capacity of nucleic acids for forming a variety of two and three dimensional structures as well as the chemical versatility available within the nucleotide monomers to act as ligands form specific binding pairs with virtually any chemical compound whether monomeric or polymeric including other nucleic acid molecules and polypeptides. Molecules of any size or composition can serve as targets. Because the specific tPA proteolysis site on PDGF C and PDGF CC is known screening using SELEX process for aptamers that act on PDGF PDGFR or a protease that is known to activate a PDGF e.g. tPA for PDGF C would allow the identification of aptamer that can function as a PDGF antagonist. The SELEX method involves selection from a mixture of candidate oligonucleotides and step wise iterations of binding partitioning and amplification using the same general selection scheme to achieve desired binding affinity and selectivity. Starting from a mixture of nucleic acids preferably comprising a segment of randomized sequence the SELEX method includes steps of contacting the mixture with the target under conditions favorable for binding partitioning unbound nucleic acids from those nucleic acids which have bound specifically to target molecules dissociating the nucleic acid target complexes amplifying the nucleic acids dissociated from the nucleic acid target complexes to yield a ligand enriched mixture of nucleic acids then reiterating the steps of binding partitioning dissociating and amplifying through as many cycles as desired to yield highly specific high affinity nucleic acid ligands to the target molecule.

Alternatively target gene expression can be reduced by targeting deoxyribonucleotide sequences complementary to the regulatory region of the gene i.e. the promoter and or enhancers to form triple helical structures that prevent transcription of the gene in target cells in the body. See generally Helene C. 1991 Anticancer Drug Des. 6 569 84 Helene C. et al. 1992 Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 660 27 36 and Maher L. J. 1992 Bioassays 14 807 15 .

Nucleic acid molecules to be used in triple helix formation for the inhibition of transcription are preferably single stranded and composed of deoxyribonucleotides. The base composition of these oligonucleotides should promote triple helix formation via Hoogsteen base pairing rules which generally require sizable stretches of either purines or pyrimidines to be present on one strand of a duplex. Nucleotide sequences may be pyrimidine based which will result in TAT and CGC triplets across the three associated strands of the resulting triple helix. The pyrimidine rich molecules provide base complementarity to a purine rich region of a single strand of the duplex in a parallel orientation to that strand. In addition nucleic acid molecules may be chosen that are purine rich for example containing a stretch of G residues. These molecules will form a triple helix with a DNA duplex that is rich in GC pairs in which the majority of the purine residues are located on a single strand of the targeted duplex resulting in CGC triplets across the three strands in the triplex.

A further aspect of the invention relates to the use of DNA enzymes to inhibit expression of target gene. DNA enzymes incorporate some of the mechanistic features of both antisense and ribozyme technologies. DNA enzymes are designed so that they recognize a particular target nucleic acid sequence much like an antisense oligonucleotide. They are however catalytic and specifically cleave the target nucleic acid.

There are currently two basic types of DNA enzymes both of which were identified by Santoro and Joyce see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 110 462 . The 10 23 DNA enzyme comprises a loop structure which connect two arms. The two arms provide specificity by recognizing the particular target nucleic acid sequence while the loop structure provides catalytic function under physiological conditions.

Briefly to design an ideal DNA enzyme that specifically recognizes and cleaves a target nucleic acid one of skill in the art must first identify the unique target sequence. This can be done using the same approach as outlined for antisense oligonucleotides. Preferably the unique or substantially sequence is a G C rich of approximately 18 to 22 nucleotides. High G C content helps insure a stronger interaction between the DNA enzyme and the target sequence.

When synthesizing the DNA enzyme the specific antisense recognition sequence that will target the enzyme to the message is divided so that it comprises the two arms of the DNA enzyme and the DNA enzyme loop is placed between the two specific arms.

Methods of making and administering DNA enzymes can be found for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 110 462. Similarly methods of delivery of DNA ribozymes in vitro or in vivo are similar to methods of delivery of RNA ribozyme as outlined in detail above. Additionally one of skill in the art will recognize that like antisense oligonucleotide DNA enzymes can be optionally modified to improve stability and improve resistance to degradation.

Delivery Routes The present method delivers PDGF antagonist to the subject via any approach that effectively will reach the tissue where the activity of PDGF is desired to be inhibited especially at or near the neurovascular unit using any mode of administration that is medically acceptable. Pharmaceutical compositions containing the PDGF antagonist in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may be administered parenterally intrathecally intracistemally intravaginally topically as by powders ointments drops or transdermal patch bucally or as an oral or nasal spray intranasally . The term parenteral includes subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular or infusion. Other routes of administration include per oz intra cranially or intrathecally delivery directly into the spinal cord .

Preferably the antagonists of the invention can be administered parenterally by injection or by gradual perfusion over time. The antagonists can be administered intravenously intraperitoneally intramuscularly subcutaneously intracavity or transdermally. The antagonists of the invention may also be administered per oz.

When the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is administered to the eye it may be formulated for intraocular injection or topical application such as by an ophthalmic solution. Topical ophthalmic preparations for example ocular drops gels or creams are preferable because of the ease of application ease of dose delivery and fewer systemic side effects. Intraocular injection may be desirable or necessary for example for conditions in which topical administration is either not advised or is inadequate for patients who have difficulty self administering medications etc. Intraocular injection may be into the vitreous or subconjunctival. Such injection may suitably be given periodically depending on the clinical status once in a every 2 to 6 months.

The term parenteral as used herein refers to modes of administration which include intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal intrasternal subcutaneous and intrarticular injection and infusion.

In a preferred embodiment administration is intravenously intrathecally or via nasal administration intranasally . Particularly for the treatment of cerebral edema or in combination therapy of ischemic stroke preferred administration modes for delivery to vascular bed in the area of the blood brain barrier is intrathecal or intranasal administration. As used herein the term intrathecal administration includes delivering a PDGF C antagonist in a pharmaceutical formulation directly into the cerebrospinal fluid of a subject by techniques including lateral cerebroventricular injection through a burrhole or cisternal into the cisterna magna or lumbar puncture into the lumbar regions or the like as described for example in Lazorthes et al. Advances in Drug Delivery Systems and Applications in Neurosurgery 143 192 and Omaya et al. Cancer Drug Delivery 1 169 179 . The term lumbar region is intended to include the area between the third and fourth lumbar lower back vertebrae. The term cisterna magna is intended to include the area where the skull ends and the spinal cord begins at the back of the head. The term cerebral ventricle means the cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord. Administration of a PDGF C antagonist to any of the above mentioned sites can be achieved by direct injection of the PDGF C antagonist or by the use of infusion pumps.

For injection the PDGF antagonist formulation of the invention can be formulated in liquid solutions preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hank s solution or Ringer s solution. In addition the PDGF antagonist formulation may be formulated in solid form and re dissolved or suspended immediately prior to use. Lyophilized forms are also included. The injection can be for example in the form of a bolus injection or continuous infusion e.g. using infusion pumps of the PDGF antagonist formulation.

In one embodiment of the invention a PDGF antagonist formulation is administered by lateral cerebroventricular injection into the brain of a subject in the inclusive period from the time of the injury for several hours or even days if necessary to reduce the edema in the tissue. The injection can be made for example through a burr hole made in the subject s skull. In another embodiment encapsulated PDGF antagonist may be administered through a surgically inserted shunt into the cerebral ventricle of a subject in the inclusive period from the time of the injury for several hours or even days if necessary to reduce the edema in the tissue. For example the injection can be made into the lateral ventricles which are larger even though injection into the third and fourth smaller ventricles can also be made.

In yet another embodiment the PDGF antagonist formulation is administered by injection into the cisterna magna or lumbar area of a subject in the inclusive period from the time of the injury for several hours or even days if necessary to reduce the edema in the tissue.

In a further embodiment intranasal administration has been verified as a useful mode of administration via a direct nose brain pathway Pietrowsky et al. Biol. Psychiatry 39 5 332 340 1996 and the PDGF antagonist formulation can be administered in this manner.

The PDGF antagonist is also suitably administered by sustained release systems. A PDGF antagonist formulation may further be included in a fibrin sealant as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 117 425. Other suitable examples of sustained release compositions include semi permeable polymer matrices in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or mirocapsules. Sustained release matrices include polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 EP 58 481 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate Sidman et al. Biopolymers 22 547 556 1983 poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate R. Langer et al. J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 15 167 277 1981 and R. Langer Chem. Tech. 12 98 105 1982 ethylene vinyl acetate R. Langer et al. Id. or poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid EP 133 988 . Sustained release PDGF antagonist compositions also include lipid entrapped PDGF antagonists such as liposomes containing PDGF antagonists which are prepared by methods known per se DE 3 218 121 Epstein et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82 3688 3692 1985 Hwang et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 4030 4034 1980 EP 52 322 EP 36 676 EP 88 046 EP 143 949 EP 142 641 Japanese Pat. Appl. 83 118008 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 485 045 and 4 544 545 and EP 102 324. Ordinarily the liposomes are of the small about 200 800 Angstroms unilamellar type which the lipid content is greater than about 30 mol. percent cholesterol the selected proportion being adjusted for the optimal PDGF antagonist therapy.

Preparations of the PDGF antagonists of the present invention should pass the blood brain barrier J. Lipid Res. 32 713 722 1991 so that effectiveness to cerebral vascular tissue is ensured in which tPA increases vascular permeability resulting in edema. For this purpose a liposome preparation may be prepared according e.g. using a method described in Knight Liposomes From Physical Structure to Therapeutic Applications pages 51 82 Elsevier Amsterdam 1981 .

When a PDGF antagonist especially a PDGF C antagonist is used in combination with tPA to improve its treatment of ischemic stroke or other situations where thrombolysis is needed the PDGF antagonists may be administered along with tPA using the same delivery method and routes which most commonly include intravenous reperfusion. Alternatively as the patient s situation may require PDGF antagonist may be delivered before or after tPA treatment using one of the routes described above.

Typically tPA is administered as an initial bolus followed by infusion. One of ordinary skills in the art will recognize that the choice of delivery routes depend on the types of the antagonist used. For example neutralizing antibodies may be delivered directly into the CSF or I.V. For small molecules such as Gleevec it can be delivered through oral administration or directly into the CSF.

PDGF C agonists would be used to open blood neural barrier specifically in the blood brain barrier or retina to deliver therapeutics to the target site. Preferably the delivery targets the CNS e.g. via the nasal route or an invasive neurosurgical approaches such as into the arterial circulation of the brain direct injection into the CNS substance or CNS lesions intraventricular injection intrathecal drug delivery or using a devices for drug delivery to the CNS such as a nanotechnology based devices and implants for CNS . For improved drug delivery to the CNS across the BNB the BNB may be further opened via osmotic opening chemical opening via cerebral vasodilatation or with a nitric oxide donor or via manipulation of the sphingosine 1 phosphate receptor system. Transport across the BNB may further be facilitated pharmacologically e.g. via modification of the drug to enhance its lipid solubility transvascular use of transport or carrier systems use of receptor mediated transocytosis. Drug delivery to the CNS may further be facilitated by using novel formulations such as crystalline formulations liposomes monoclonal antibodies microspheres microbeads and lipid coated microbubble and nanoparticles. Biochip implants such as controlled release microchip and retinal implant chip may also be used for drug delivery to the CNS. When delivered systemically the drug is preferably in a sustained and or controlled release formulation.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more PDGF antagonists or one or more PDGF agonists according to the invention together with a physiologically and or pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent. Physiologically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers are known to those skilled in the art see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 17th edition Ed. A. Osol Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1985 . Acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids hydrophobic oils derived from natural or synthetic sources antioxidants including ascorbic acid low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol salt forming counterions such as sodium and or nonionic surfactants such as Tween Pluronics or polyethylene glycol PEG .

The above methods and compositions are especially suitable for use in human treatment. For example the PDGF C antagonists may be administered to a stroke patient concurrently or sequentially with tPA. A person of ordinary skills will be able to determine which combination therapy approach that administering the antagonists before concurrently and or after administration of tPA.

PDGF agonists of the present invention can be used to increase BNB permeability for delivery therapeutic agents for the treatment many disorders of the nervous system such as Neurodegenerative diseases Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Huntington s disease and Multiple Sclerosis MS amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS or Lou Gehrig s Disease CNS involvement in Hunter syndrome mitochondrial encephalopathies cerebrovascular disease e.g. stroke restenosis cerebral ischemia intracranial aneurysms subarachnoid hemorrhage and vasospasm psychiatric illness anxiety depression schizophrenia and sleep disorders disorders of memory cognition epilepsy e.g. treating with carbamazepine diazepam pain considered to be a neurological disorder migraine spasticity e.g. treatment with intrathecal baclofen brain tumors especially malignant gliomas physical trauma traumatic brain injury spinal cord injury and other CNS injury vasospasm retinal disorders such as age related macular degeneration and CNS infections such as encephalitis and meningitis and neuroAIDS .

Wild type C57BL6 mice 10 Week old were injected intraventricularly into the dorsal third ventricle with 2 l of PBS active PDGF AA PDGF BB both from Preprotech Inc. and PDGF CC see below 3 M . Evans Blue was given intravenously immediately after the injection. One hour after the injection the animals were perfused with PBS and the brain tissue was removed and processed for Evans Blue extravasation.

To monitor growth factor induced tyrosine phosphorylation of PDGFR a serum starved porcine aortic endothelial PAE cells with stable expressing of human PDGFR were incubated on ice with 80 g ml PDGF AA PDGF BB or activated PDGF CC core protein respectively. The growth factors had prior to addition to the cells been incubated with 3 g of affinity purified rabbit polyclonal antibodies against PDGF CC rabbit no. 615 or with 3 g of preimmune rabbit IgG from the same rabbit. The cells were lysed as previously described Li et al. 2000 Nat. Cell Biol. 2 302 309 and PDGFR was immunoprecipitated using a specific antiserum Eriksson et al. 1992 EMBO J. 11 543 550 . Precipitated proteins were subjected to SDS PAGE under reducing conditions. Tyrosine phosphorylated PDGFR was detected by immunoblotting using anti phosphotyrosine antibodies PY99 Santa Cruz 

To determine the neutralizing activity of the antibodies to PDGF CC PAE cells were treated with PDGF AA PDGF BB and PDGF CC preincubated with affinity purified antibodies to PDGF CC or preincubated with preimmune IgG. The results are shown in and indicate that the rabbit anti PDGF CC antibodies blocked the PDGF CC mediated activation of PDGFR while being unable to do so using PDGF AA or PDGF BB as receptor agonists. Preimmune IgG did not affect the ability of PDGF AA PDGF BB or PDGF CC to efficiently block receptor activation. Thus the antibodies to PDGF CC are able to specifically neutralize the action of PDGF CC.

Wild type C57BL6 mice 10 Week old were injected intraventricularly into the dorsal third ventricle with 2 l of either PBS wild type murine tPA 3 M active PDGF CC 3 M or wild type murine tPA 3 M plus active PDGF CC 3 M . Evans Blue was given intravenously immediately after the injection. One hour after the injection the animals were perfused with PBS and the brain tissue was removed and processed for Evans Blue extravasation.

As shown in tPA as well as PDGF CC in the CSF are potent inducers of opening of the BBB. However tPA together with PDGF CC did not significantly increase BBB opening suggesting that both tPA and PDGF CC are able to open the BBB but the effects are not synergistic or additive.

Wt C57BL6 mice 10 Week old were injected intraventricularly with 3 l of either PBS wild type murine tPA 3 M wild type murine tPA 3 M with rabbit anti PDGF CC 150 g ml . Evans Blue was given intravenously immediately after the injection. One hour after the injection the animals were perfused with PBS and the brain tissue was removed and processed for Evans Blue extravasation.

As shown in when tPA was injected together with an anti PDGF CC antibody a dramatic reduction of Evans Blue extravasation was observed. This suggests that tPA regulation of BBB opening must involve PDGF CC most likely via activating the PDGF CC from its latent form. Accordingly PDGF CC antagonists may be utilized to treat ischemia stroke patients and possibly other patients where cerebral edema is a significant problem. In particular an antagonist of PDGF CC combined with tPA could be used to extend the therapeutic window of tPA treatment in ischemic stroke which is currently limited to 3 hour after the onset of symptoms.

As further evidence that PDGF CC is a substrate for tPA in the CNS and mediates tPA s ability to induce increased vascular permeability we have shown that intraventricular injection of PDGF CC induces edema. Specifically tPA or active PDGF CC 2 L each at a concentration a 1 M were injected intraventricularly into mice and morphological analysis of the cerebrovascular structure was performed. PBS was used as control. shows representative transmission electron micrographs of cerebral vessels from the cortex of mice 1 hour after the injection of tPA or PDGF CC PBS B tPA 2 L at a concentration of a 1 M C and D PDGF CC 2 L at a concentration of a 1 M . show arterioles surrounded by fluid filled spaces indicative of developing edema. The approximate magnification is indicated on each panel. As shown in tPA and PDGF CC injections induce areas of fluid accumulation surrounding the vessels that likely represent edema formation i.e. arterioles surrounded by fluid filled spaces indicative developing edema .

Those data support the conclusion that PDGF CC acts downstream of tPA and is a tPA substrate that regulates vascular permeability.

We have examined the localization of PDGF CC and the PDGF alpha receptor in the CNS of normal mice. These data are shown in and they indicate that both PDGF CC and its alpha receptor are associated with the neurovascular unit.

Panel A shows PDGF CC expression in cells associated with cerebral vessels panel B shows the PDGF receptor expression associated with PECAM positive cerebral vessels. In panel A PDGF CC expression is detected from galactosidase activity in mice heterozygous for galactosidase knocked into the PDGF CC gene Aase et al. Mechanisms of Development 2002 110 187 91 . In panel B PDGF a receptor expression is detected in knockin mice heterozygous for a PDGF a receptor GFP chimera Hamilton et al. Molecular and Cellular Biology 2003 23 4013 25 . PECAM is detected by immunofluorescence and the nuclei are stained with DAPI.

Although the precise cell type has not yet been identified co staining with PECAM suggests that the alpha receptor is not associated directly with endothelial cells but is in cells immediately adjacent to the endothelial cells possibly smooth muscle cells or perivascular astrocytes.

Because PDGF CC activation may also play a role in regulating cerebrovascular permeability following cerebral ischemia inhibition of the PDGF receptor may represent a stroke treatment strategy. The photothrombotic stroke model was used to examine the efficacy of a small molecule inhibitor of the PDGF receptor imatinib mesylate Gleevec .

Mice were treated twice daily PO with either Gleevec or vehicle beginning 12 hours before stroke and infarct evolution together with cerebrovascular permeability were measured.

Male C57BL J mice were stroked using photothrombotic method. Gleevec was given PO twice a day at 600 mg kg day beginning 12 hours before the induction of stroke. Twenty three hours after stroke animal was given 100 ul of Evans Blue 4 intravenously. One hour later the animal was euthanized perfused with PBS and brain tissue extracted for Evans Blue measurement n 4 5 for each condition .

Taken together these data further demonstrate that PDGF CC is an important substrate for tPA in the neurovascular unit and that it is a significant regulator of cerebrovascular permeability following cerebral ischemia. Furthermore these data support that small molecule inhibitors of PDGF receptors are suitable for improved treatment for stroke. Gleevec is especially notably because it is approved very well tolerated and has a well established safety record. While recent reports suggest that long term use of Gleevec may lead to cardiac toxicity in some patients only a short period of treatment is likely needed in the case acute stroke treatment where toxicity has not been reported.

The above data show that tPA mediated activation of PDGF CC controls the vascular permeability of a subset of vessels in the brain following ischemic stroke and that interfering with this signaling mechanism using antibodies to PDGF CC or a small molecule to PDGFR greatly reduces edema formation and infarction volume in stroke.

This example shows that both PDGF CC and the PDGFR are expressed in the neurovascular unit of other sites of blood neural interface specifically the blood retina barrier.

Methods Retinas from adult C57 b1 mice were isolated and snap frozen and cryosectioned and postfixed in 4 paraformaldehyde for 10 min. Immunolocalization of endothelial cells using platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule PECAM as the marker and astrocytes were identified using glial fibrillary acidic protein GFAP as the marker. For PECAM localization a rat monoclonal antibody was used BD Pharmingen dilution 1 100 and secondary antibody anti Rat Alexa 594 Molecular Probes dilution 1 300 . For GFAP localization a rabbit antibody was used antibody Dako dilution 1 1000 and secondary antibody anti rabbit Alexa 594 Molecular Probes 1 300 . Slides were mounted with Vectashield mounting media for fluorescence containing DAPI Vector Laboratories . Bound antibodies were visualized using a fluorescence microscope ZEISS Axiophot .

For immunolocalization of PDGF CC isolated eyes were fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde in PBS overnight at 4 C. and processed for paraffin embedding sectioning and rehydration. The sections were stained with affinity purified rabbit anti PDGF C antibodies Li et al. Nat. Cell Biol. 2 302 309 2000 using 6 g of Ig ml overnight at 4 C. Bound antibodies were visualized using an ABC staining kit Vector Laboratories mounted and viewed in a normal light microscope.

For analyses of whole mount adult retina preparation retinas from heterozygous transgenic mice carrying a mutant allele with a nuclear targeted histon 2B GFP fusion protein targeted to the PDGFR locus Hamilton et al. Mol Cell Biol. 23 4013 4025 2003 were isolated by microdissection immunostained and processed for confocal microscopy essentially as described Gerhart et al. J. Cell Biol. 161 1163 1177 2003 . Primary antibodies were anti PECAM as above BD Pharmingen or anti NG2 Chemicon to visualize pericytes. Expression of PDGFR was determined by GFP fluorescence. Fluorescence images were taken by a fluorescence microscope.

Results Immunocalization of GFAP and PECAM revealed that both astrocytes and blood vessels respectively were particularly abundant in outer plexiform layer OPL inner nuclear layer INL inner plexiform layer IPL and in the ganglion cell layer GCL and . PDGF CC was most abundant in OPL INL IPL and GCL . Staining with control Ig gave only background staining . Thus PDGF CC was expressed in the same compartment of the retina as the perivascular astrocytes and the blood vessels.

The results show that PDGF CC visualized by the red brownish staining color is expressed in outer plexiform layer in the inner nuclear layer in the inner plexiform layer and in the ganglion cell layer similar to the marker for astrocytes and endothelial cells.

To localize the expression of PDGFR in adult mouse retina we determined the localization of GFP using retinas from a transgenic mouse strain expressing the fluorescent protein under the endogenous control elements. The results showed that GFP expression is particularly abundant in small arteries and arteriolas of the retinal vasculature . The GFP expressing cells are probably perivascular astrocytes. Thus the neurovascular units in brain and retina vasculatures are very similar suggesting that vascular permeability in the brain and retina is regulated using a common mechanism namely tPA mediated activation of PDGF CC.

The results of immunofluorescence localization of PDGFR expressing cells in adult mouse retina are shown in . Blood vessels were localized using PECAM as the marker a and pericytes were localized using NG2 as the marker b . PDGFR expression was localized using a nuclear targeted histone 2B GFP fusion protein knocked into the PDGFR locus green nuclei in c . The overlay of a c shows that GFP expressing cells are closely attached to smaller arteries and arteriolas d white arrows . No obvious association between the GFP expressing cells and smaller vessels were observed.

With these experiments we have shown that PDGF CC and its signaling receptor PDGFR are expressed in or close to the neurovascular unit of the retinal vasculature. Together with previous knowledge this information provides evidence for a role of tPA mediated activation of PDGF CC as a major factor regulating blood vessel permeability in the retina similar to our observations in brain. Since retinal vessel permeability and edema formation in the retina are common causes of visual impairment and even blindness these results indicate that by inferring with PDGF CC signaling in retina it may be possible to reduce or remove edema formation in the retina.

The foregoing description and examples have been set forth merely to illustrate the invention and are not intended to be limiting. Since modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the invention may occur to persons skilled in the art the invention should be construed broadly to include all variations falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof. All references cited hereinabove and or listed below are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

