---

title: Managing dense wireless access point infrastructures in wireless local area networks
abstract: Techniques for enhancing the throughput capacity available to client devices connected to a wireless local area network (WLAN) are described. Specifically, existing WLAN resources are converted into wireless access points (APs) to create a dense infrastructure of wireless APs. To leverage this dense AP infrastructure, central management techniques are employed. With client-to-AP mapping, these techniques are used to prevent the discovery of multiple APs in a WLAN by a client device and to select a single AP (using certain policies) to associate with the client device and provide it with an enhanced wireless connection to the WLAN. Additionally, techniques are employed to centrally determine, using central policies, when the AP should disassociate from the client device and when another centrally selected AP should respond to, and associate with, the client device to provide it with an enhanced wireless connection to the WLAN—without interrupting/disrupting the client device's access.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07907562&OS=07907562&RS=07907562
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07907562
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070620
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 766 045 filed 20 Jun. 2007 entitled Management Policies for Dense Wireless Access Point Infrastructures in Wireless Local Area Networks which is incorporated by reference herein.

Networked environments allow network users to share network resources such as printers data base servers e mail servers and the like. Unfortunately traditional wired networks such as wired local area networks LANs can present significant limitations with respect to providing access to mobile client devices because they require that these mobile devices be physically connected to the network. Accordingly wireless LANs WLANs are becoming increasingly popular especially those based on the wireless standards developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and designated IEEE 802.11. These WLANs provide mobile client devices with wireless access from any location within range of one or more access points AP associated with the WLAN. In this way mobile client devices can access a WLAN and potentially one or more backhaul networks wired and or wireless mesh or wireless networks linked to the WLAN without being physically connected to the network. This is advantageous especially since mobile client devices such as laptops smartphones personal digital assistant PDA phones and the like with wireless functionality are fast becoming ubiquitous. As such it is not surprising that increasing the throughput capacity provided by APs associated with WLANs is an ongoing concern.

Unfortunately traditional approaches directed to increasing WLAN throughput capacity are not optimal. Specifically these approaches typically focus on the amount of space being covered coverage and only treat the throughput capacity capacity as a secondary concern. This is at least partly due to the fact that increasing the capacity of WLANs is often prohibitively expensive. For instance increasing capacity by increasing the density of APs can be impractical given the hardware and or software costs typically associated with procuring a large number of APs. For these reasons enterprises deploying WLANs tend to only deploy the minimum number of WLAN APs necessary to achieve the desired coverage. Furthermore even when enterprises do deploy more WLAN APs thus increasing the AP density of the WLAN they still do not achieve significant increases in throughput capacity because they fail to fully leverage the potential advantages associated with this density by employing effective spectrum utilization techniques.

Accordingly there is a need to significantly enhance the overall throughput capacity available to client devices connected to a WLAN by increasing the AP density on the WLAN and by successfully leveraging this density through effective spectrum utilization techniques.

Techniques for enhancing the throughput capacity available to client devices such as mobile computing devices connected to a wireless local area network WLAN are described. In at least some embodiments existing WLAN resources are converted into wireless access points APs to create a dense infrastructure of wireless APs. To leverage the potential throughput capacity advantages of this dense AP infrastructure certain central management techniques are employed to manage AP communication channel assignments AP transmission power settings and client to AP mappings.

With respect to client to AP mapping in at least some embodiments central management techniques are employed to prevent discovery of multiple APs in a WLAN by a client device in wireless range of the multiple APs. A single AP is centrally selected from among the multiple APs using certain policies and is directed to respond to and associate with the client device. Through this central control the client to AP mapping effectively allocates wireless connections to the WLAN among client devices to provide enhanced throughput capacity.

In addition in at least some embodiments central management techniques are employed to centrally determine using certain policies when the selected AP providing the client device with a wireless connection to the WLAN should disassociate from the client device. These techniques are also employed to centrally determine using certain policies when another centrally selected AP should respond to and associate with the client device to provide the client device with a wireless connection associated with an enhanced throughput capacity. Advantageously this can be accomplished without interrupting disrupting the client device s access. In the context of the WLAN as a whole these handoff techniques provide an effective load balancing approach.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This disclosure is directed to techniques for increasing the throughput capacity available to client devices such as mobile devices connected to a wireless local area network WLAN . These techniques generally involve 1 configuring existing computing resources such as desktop computers and the like into wireless access points AP to create a dense AP WLAN infrastructure and 2 leveraging this dense AP infrastructure to enhance data throughput capacity on the WLAN by centrally managing AP communication channel assignments e.g. one of several non overlapping channels defined by the IEEE 802.11 standards AP transmission power settings tuning the power at which an AP transmits data and client to AP mappings for client devices attempting to connect to the WLAN.

With respect to 1 configuring existing computing resources into wireless access points APs to help create a dense AP WLAN infrastructure any number of APs capable of being configured automatically from a central location such as a central server on the WLAN can be utilized. In this regard and as will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art certain techniques such as those described in Patent Application Publication Numbers US2004 0103278 filed Nov. 27 2002 and US2006 0274792 filed Aug. 15 2006 both of which are assigned to Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. can be employed to transform existing computing devices such as desktop personal computers servers laptops and the like having a reasonably stable connection to a backhaul network typically wired and or wireless network mesh such as a LAN for example into wireless software APs forming all or part of a WLAN. One example of such a WLAN is as a WLAN following Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 communication standards.

Utilizing these techniques the density of a WLAN infrastructure can be increased without modifying any client devices configured to access the WLAN. This dense WLAN infrastructure can include any number of transformed and or dedicated APs. Typically transforming an existing WLAN computing device into a software AP does not interfere with the device s functionality. Instead the existing computing device is updated with fully programmable software which provides a way to bridge interfaces between two networks on the device. More specifically the existing computing device typically utilizes an Ethernet network interface card NIC to provide a reasonably stable connection to the network. In addition a relatively inexpensive wireless adapter such as a USB based wireless adapter for example is attached to the device to provide it with a wireless connection to a WLAN. As such by virtue of this fully programmable software the device is effectively configured as a software AP providing a link between the backhaul network e.g. a wired and or wireless mesh LAN and the WLAN.

While any suitable technique s software for creating software APs on computing devices can be employed certain software modifications can be made to facilitate the techniques disclosed herein. Specifically as described below in greater detail below these modifications include two kernel mode level drivers and a user mode level daemon to provide certain data transmission sending and receiving functionality certain AP functionality and certain central control functionality all of which accommodate the disclosed central management techniques.

With respect to 2 centrally managing features such as AP communication channel assignments AP transmission power settings and client to AP mappings allows the dense AP infrastructure to be leveraged because it allows coordinated decisions with respect to these features to be made in the context of the WLAN infrastructure as a whole. In this regard these features can dramatically affect the throughput capacity available on that same AP or even on another AP. By centrally managing these features based on an infrastructure wide view of available resources assignments settings and mappings that enhance the throughput capacity enjoyed by client devices accessing the WLAN can be intelligently identified and selected. Advantageously this can be accomplished without modifying the client devices themselves.

With respect to client to AP mapping in particular the ongoing intelligent mapping of client devices to APs by one or more central controllers i.e. central management module s can dramatically improve throughput capacity. Based on information collected from all of the APs an infrastructure wide perspective can be leveraged to intelligently map APs based on factors such as physical distance between APs AP signal strength load on each AP and interference based conflict graphs. Take for example a scenario in which six client devices are placed in a conference room with two APs such that all of the client devices are more proximate to one AP than the other. In such a scenario the overall throughput enjoyed by each client device can be significantly enhanced by having a central controller with an infrastructure wide view coordinate the client to AP mapping for each AP. Specifically by intelligently mapping half of the client devices to the more proximate AP and half to the less proximate AP the throughput capacity available to each client device is optimized. Such a result may not be realized if each client device were allowed to determine for itself which AP it is to associate with and therefore effectively be assigned to . Specifically in the above scenario an individual client device lacking an infrastructure wide view would unilaterally select an AP based on a narrow client centric metric such as the APs relative proximity which typically correlates with the strongest signal strength . As such all six of the client devices in the above scenario would likely select the more proximate AP thus decreasing the overall throughput available to each client device.

As noted above in at least some embodiments intelligent client to AP mapping techniques directed to enhancing AP throughput capacity include centrally preventing a client device from discovering APs in a WLAN. A single AP is then centrally selected using certain policies and directed to respond to and associate with the client device to provide it with a wireless connection to the WLAN that is associated with an enhanced throughput capacity. Furthermore to deal with connectivity changes in the WLAN e.g. from moving client devices these techniques also include centrally determining using certain policies when the selected AP providing the client device with a wireless connection to the WLAN should disassociate from the client device and when another centrally selected AP should respond to and associate with the client device to provide the client device with a wireless connection associated with an enhanced throughput capacity. Advantageously this can be accomplished without interrupting disrupting the client device s access. In the context of the WLAN as a whole these handoff techniques provide an effective load balancing approach.

Multiple and varied implementations and embodiments are described below. Generally any of the functions described with reference to the figures can be implemented using software firmware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The term module component or functionality as used herein generally represents software firmware or a combination of software and firmware. For instance in the case of a software implementation the term module or functionality represents program code or declarative content that performs specified tasks when executed on a processing computing device or devices e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices. More generally the illustrated separation of modules components and functionality into distinct units may reflect an actual physical grouping and allocation of such software and or hardware or can correspond to a conceptual allocation of different tasks to one or more software program s and or hardware unit s or any combination thereof. The illustrated modules components and functionality can be located at a single site e.g. as implemented by a processing computing device or can be distributed over multiple locations e.g. as implemented by multiple processing computing devices .

System includes WLAN which wirelessly links multiple computing devices within a coverage area by allowing the devices to communicate wirelessly using known modulation techniques as will be understood and appreciated by one skilled in the art. While WLAN can be based on any suitable wireless standard in at least some embodiments WLAN follows wireless standards developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and designated IEEE 802.11.

As noted above WLAN wirelessly links multiple computing devices within a coverage area. To accomplish this WLAN includes multiple wireless access points APs i.e. nodes each having a certain wireless transmission range. The combined range of these APs defines the coverage area provided by WLAN .

Due to the physical constraints of the page upon which this figure appears most of the APs included in WLAN are here depicted by a circle designated AP . For the sake of clarity WLAN is depicted here as including eight APs. However it is to be appreciated and understood that WLAN can include any number of APs without deviating from the course and scope of the claimed subject matter. In this regard the number of APs included in WLAN can be thought of as correlating with the AP density of WLAN .

While some of the APs included in WLAN can be traditional dedicated APs WLAN includes multiple existing computing devices such as desktop computing devices and the like that have been configured or transformed as software APs. As noted above this provides a relatively inexpensive way to increase the AP density and thus the overall throughput capacity of WLAN without requiring any modifications to client devices. One such device configured as a software AP is illustrated as computing device software AP which includes one or more processors and one or more computer readable media . One or more computer readable media in turn includes operating system and one or more software applications both of which are executable by processor s . Applications can comprise any suitable type of applications. As such although computing device software AP is configured to provide a software AP it is still a fully functional computing device having the same computing functionality as it did prior to being transformed into a software AP. Although computing device software AP is illustrated in the form of a desktop computer it is to be appreciated and understood that other computing devices can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. Other computing devices can include by way of example and not limitation portable computers handheld computers such as personal digital assistants PDAs cell phones tablet computers smart phones and the like.

Also included in computer readable media and executable by processors is certain software associated with providing computing device software AP with software AP functionality. In addition as noted above two kernel mode level drivers and a user mode level daemon is included to provide certain functionality for centrally managing the multiple APs in WLAN as described in more detail below.

Computing device software AP also includes at least two network interfaces one of which is connected to backhaul network described below and one wirelessly connected to WLAN . Specifically with respect to the interface connected to backhaul network typically an Ethernet based network interface card NIC is attached to computing device software AP to provide it with a relatively stable backhauled connection. With respect to the interface connected to WLAN typically a relatively inexpensive wireless adapter such as a USB based wireless adapter for instance is attached to the device to provide it with a wireless connection to WLAN .

Continuing system includes multiple mobile client devices which are configured to wirelessly access WLAN via the multiple APs. For the sake of clarity only two mobile client devices client device and client device are depicted here. However it is to be appreciated and understood that system can include any number of mobile client devices and or any number of non mobile client devices without deviating from the course and scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore although devices and are illustrated in the form of mobile laptop computers it is to be appreciated and understood that other computing devices can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. Other computing devices can include by way of example and not limitation portable computers handheld computers such as personal digital assistants PDAs cell phones tablet computers smart phones and the like capable of wirelessly connecting to WLAN .

By virtue of the fact that at least some of the client devices in system are mobile the connectivity environment in WLAN is dynamic in that it can dramatically change over time. For instance any number of client devices can move into or out of range of WLAN i.e. into or out of range of one or more of the APs in WLAN at any time. In addition any number of client devices can move to various positions within range of WLAN at any time thus dynamically changing the number and proximity of client devices with respect to any particular AP. The dynamic character of WLAN is illustrated with respect to client device which is shown moving from a position that is not within range of WLAN to a position that is within range of WLAN as indicated by arrow . Similarly client device is shown moving between two positions within range of WLAN as indicated by arrow .

System also includes a backhaul network typically wired and or wireless network mesh such as a local area network LAN or the like depicted here as backhaul network . Backhaul network communicatively links any number of networked resources such as without limitation printer devices one of which is shown here as printer device desktop computing devices one of which is shown here as desktop computing device and server devices one of which is shown here as server device . In addition backhaul network can be communicatively linked i.e. coupled with any number of other backhauled and or wireless networks including without limitation LANS WANs the internet and the like. In this regard backhaul network is communicatively linked with WLAN via each of the APs in WLAN . Recall that each of these APs in turn is configured to provide one or more client devices such as mobile client devices and with wireless access to WLAN . As such each AP effectively provides a communicative bridge between client devices WLAN backhaul network including any networked resources thereon and any other backhauled and or wireless networks communicatively linked with Backhaul network or WLAN .

As discussed in further detail below by virtue of each AP being communicatively linked to backhaul network information can be transferred between each AP and server device . As such server device can be configured to collect information from each AP and centrally manage each AP with respect to each AP s communication channel assignment transmission power setting s and or client device to AP mapping. Server device may be implemented as one or more of a variety of suitable computing devices including for example servers desktop PCs notebooks or portable computers workstations mainframe computers and the like. Server device includes one or more processors and one or more computer readable media . In addition residing on computer readable media is operating system and one or more software server applications both of which are executable by processor s .

Included at least in part on server device is at least one central management module i.e. central controller s responsible for centrally managing each AP associated with WLAN with respect to each AP s communication channel assignment transmission power control setting s and or client device to AP mappings mapping as described briefly above. This central management module s includes without limitation 1 a storage component to store information received from one or more of the APs associated with WLAN 2 a selection component to process the information and select certain communication channel assignments transmission power controls settings and or mappings for each AP and 3 a communication module to configure the APs with the selected assignments settings and or mappings.

Recall from above that server device may be implemented as one or more of a variety of suitable computing devices. Also recall that modules and components can correspond to a conceptual allocation of different tasks to one or more software program s and or hardware unit s or any combination thereof. In this regard modules such as the central management module s and components such as the storage selection and communication components can be distributed at over a single site e.g. as implemented by a processing computing device or can be distributed over multiple locations e.g. as implemented by multiple processing computing devices . As such in at least some embodiments one or more tasks associated with the central management module s duties i.e. centrally managing can be performed in a distributed fashion by one or more of the APs in WLAN .

As will be understood and appreciated by those skilled in the art computing device software AP above includes a network stack i.e. communications stack which can be thought of as an abstract description for the device s communications and computer network protocol design. In the context of the software associated with providing computing device software AP with software AP functionality this network stack can be thought of as including the two kernel mode level drivers and the user mode level daemon depicted in .

In this regard illustrates an exemplary network stack which for discussion purposes describes the software associated with providing computing device software AP with software AP functionality. While exemplary network stack is described in the context of system above it is to be appreciated and understood that this constitutes but one example and is not to be used to limit the application of the claimed subject matter.

Recall from above that configuring or transforming existing computing resources such as desktop computing devices and the like on WLAN provides a relatively inexpensive way to increase the AP density and thus the overall throughput capacity of WLAN . Also recall that in addition to the AP software responsible for creating a wireless software AP on computing device software AP certain kernel mode level drivers and a user mode level daemon are included in the network stack of computing device software AP . As such and as will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art network stack illustrates in the context of the open systems interconnection OSI model certain layers included in the network stack of computing device software AP . In this regard these layers are depicted as being associated with either a user mode or a kernel mode with respect to operating system on computing device software AP .

Network stack enables AP functionality on computing device software AP which can run any suitable software such as Microsoft s Windows Vista operating system in at last some embodiments. An integral part of network stack is a fully programmable AP software code. Recall that this fully programmable AP software provides a way to bridge the backhauled wired and or wireless mesh and wireless interfaces between two networks on the device. As will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art this bridging is made possible by the use of certain service request protocols such as transmission control protocol TCP and the Internet Protocol IP protocols for instance and network bridging processes which accommodate the use of communication standards developed by the IEEE for use with wired and wireless networks e.g. 802.3 and 802.11 IEEE standards .

With respect to the kernel mode drivers in network stack Software AP driver and wireless interface driver are closely associated with the wireless NIC which is included in network interfaces . For purposes of this discussion wireless NIC can be thought of as a hardware component attached to computing device software AP which 1 physically allows computing device software AP to wirelessly communicate with WLAN and 2 provides a low level addressing system through the use of media access control MAC messages as will be understood and appreciated by one skilled in the art. In this regard wireless interface driver communicates directly with wireless NIC and facilitates the transmission of data sent to and from computing device software AP . In particular wireless interface driver exposes interfaces such that certain AP functions such as associating with client devices authenticating client devices and the like can be handled by software AP driver .

Software AP driver driver sits between the second and third layers of the OSI model and can thus be thought of as establishing a mid layer between these layers with respect to the data transferred between wireless interface driver and network bridge processes . It is at this mid layer that most of the AP functionality such as association authentication rate control handoffs packet routing and the like is implemented. This mid layer also exposes AP functionality to user level code via input output control ioctl calls as will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art. This permits a user mode level daemon i.e. computer program that runs in the background such as software AP daemon described below to accommodate information requests and or receive and execute commands from the central management module s on server device . Software AP driver includes without limitation the following features this is not an exhaustive list 

Similar to wireless interface driver being closely associated with wireless NIC backhaul interface driver is closely associated with backhaul NIC which is included in network interfaces . For purposes of this discussion backhaul NIC can be thought of as a hardware component attached to computing device software AP which 1 physically allows computing device software AP to communicate with backhaul network and 2 provides a low level addressing system through the use of MAC messages as will be understood and appreciated by one skilled in the art. In this regard backhaul interface driver communicates directly with backhaul NIC and facilitates the transmission of data sent to and from computing device software AP .

With respect to the user mode in network stack software AP daemon is a user mode level service responsible for the following functions 

As noted above the described techniques are directed to enhancing the throughput capacity available to client devices such as mobile devices connected to a wireless local area network WLAN . Accordingly an exemplary process for implementing these techniques is described in the discussion below. This discussion assumes that the reader is familiar with the various communicative processes associated with WLANs in general and 802.11 WLANs in particular. Nevertheless the following overview description of associations in 802.11 WLANs is included to facilitate the reader in understanding this discussion. For the purposes of this discussion associating can be considered the process by which a client becomes communicatively linked to an AP i.e. client to AP mapping via a particular communication channel to access the WLAN and potentially any networks communicatively linked to the WLAN such as WANs wired LANS the internet and the like

An AP by convention broadcasts beacon signals periodically. The beacon frame is a management frame containing information specific to the AP such as service set identifier SSID data rates supported timestamp and certain capability information. Beacons serve two primary purposes 1 advertising the WLAN and 2 facilitating power saving mode client devices. When initiating association with a particular AP a client device broadcasts a probe request which includes a desired network SSID and a MAC address identifying the client device. If the SSID is set to ANY then by convention the client is attempting to discover APs within its wireless range. Typically as opposed to the techniques disclosed herein APs automatically respond to such requests by default. As such APs that reply to such probe request messages are discovered by the client devices sending unicasting the messages. When an AP replies to a probe request message it typically does so by sending a probe response message which then initiates the association process with a client.

Typically a client listens to the beacon frames broadcasted by various APs and then transmits a probe request to a particular AP it wants to associate with. An AP receiving such a message checks to see if recognizes the SSID or it is set to ANY . If so as noted above the AP replies with a probe response message which is unicast by the AP. This probe response message can be considered an indication of the AP s willingness to serve the client device. After associating with the AP the client device may send out a DHCP request to lease an internet protocol IP address typically from a DHCP server associated with the WLAN and or networks communicatively linked to the WLAN such as a backhaul network which it registers with the WLAN typically via a communication server on the WLAN . As will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art DHCP is a set of rules that dynamically assigns leases IP addresses and related information for temporarily connected devices to provide TCP IP network configuration prevent conflicts and centrally organize manage IP address allocation. Once it receives a reply with an IP address the client device may send out a gratuitous ARP message to inform the WLAN other network s of its presence.

As noted above in contrast to the centrally managed client to AP mapping techniques disclosed herein existing client to AP mapping approaches typically allow a client device to unilaterally select which AP it will associate with and thus map to when it receives probe response messages from two or more APs. This selection is usually based on a comparison by the client device of the received signal strengths of the AP beacons and or response messages. Existing approach are likely to lead to a sub optimal selection as exemplified in the example above involving a conference room with six client devices and two APs. There in contrast to the techniques disclosed herein the traditional unilateral client centric client to AP mapping approach resulted in a significantly decreased sub optimal overall throughput being available to each client device.

At block the AP density in a WLAN is increased. While this can be accomplished in any suitable way in at least some embodiments existing computing devices are modified with AP software responsible for creating a wireless software AP along with certain kernel mode level drivers and a user mode level daemon as described above.

As described in detail above these modifications provide for a fully programmable software AP that can be centrally managed by one or more suitable central controllers based on an infrastructure wide view of available resources. This provides a way in which those AP configurations and client to AP mappings that enhance the overall throughput capacity of the WLAN infrastructure can be intelligently identified and selected.

In this regard at block AP communication channel assignments are centrally managed. As will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art intelligent channel assignment can significantly increase the throughput capacity of APs on a WLAN by mitigating transmission interference between APs and or client devices. For instance channel assignment can be used to mitigate transmission interference by maximizing the minimum distance between any two transmitting APs. By way of example and not limitation various IEEE 802.11 standards provide for multiple orthogonal channels available to APs for transmitting data.

At block the AP transmission power settings are centrally managed. As will be and understood by those skilled in the art intelligent transmission power management can also increase the throughput capacity of APs on a WLAN by mitigating the transmission interference between APs and or client devices communicating on the same channel. Typically this involves tuning down or decreasing the transmission power of such devices to decrease the overall interference between the devices.

At block client device to AP mappings are centrally managed. As noted above the intelligent assignment or mapping initially and periodically thereafter of client devices to APs by a central controller s can dramatically improve throughput capacity. This intelligent mapping can be based on considerations such as physical distance between APs AP signal strength load on each AP and interference based conflict graphs.

As noted above in at least some embodiments managing client to AP mapping involves centrally preventing the discovery of multiple APs in a WLAN by a client device within wireless range of the APs. This effectively prevents the client device from determining i.e. selecting which AP it will associate with. As such through describe centrally managing client to AP mappings with respect to each client device.

At the discovery of APs in the WLAN by a client device is prevented. This can be accomplished in any suitable way such that the client device is unaware of specific individual APs that are within its transmission range. By way of example and not limitation in at least some embodiments the APs are hidden from the client device by being configured to 1 refrain from broadcasting beacon signals that allow the client device to become aware of the AP by refraining from broadcasting any beacon signals and or by hiding i.e. cloaking the AP s SSID in broadcasted beacon signals such that the AP is not discovered by the client device and or 2 refrain from responding to probe request messages from client devices including those request messages with the SSID set to ANY unless they are instructed to respond. In other words rather than being configured to broadcast beacon messages at least those with a discoverable SSID and respond to probe request messages by default each individual AP is configured to remain silent and undetected by the client device unless the central controller s determines that it should be discovered by the client device.

As noted above WLANs are dynamic environments where the connectivity and location of client devices can change dramatically over time. Accordingly with respect to enhancing the throughput capacity available to client devices on the WLAN it is advantageous to periodically or continuously collect i.e. receive and monitor AP information centrally to determine whether the environment has changed such that one or more client device to AP mappings should be made i.e. through association and or terminated i.e. through disassociation . As such at AP information is collected and monitored centrally by the central controller s . As noted above this can be accomplished by collecting information from the APs via their software AP daemons as described above.

At an AP is selected and then directed to associate with the client device. In order for an AP to be selected it receives a probe request message to which it responds to with a probe response message as described above. The selection of the AP can be accomplished in any suitable way. By way of example and not limitation in at least some embodiments the information collected i.e. received centrally from the APs is utilized to select a preferable AP. This information is evaluated with respect to one or more association policies to identify a preferable AP that is associated with having certain desirable characteristics i.e. operational features such as the most available air time i.e. the least load burden and or the highest average expected data rate between it and the new client device for example. In at least some embodiments the one or more association policies are embodied as algorithms which can be utilized to process the collected information. By being selected by the central controller s the AP is effectively mapped to the client device. As noted above by centrally managing all of the client device to AP mappings the throughput capacity available to each client device in the WLAN can be dramatically improved.

Once a preferable AP is selected for the client device the selected AP is directed i.e. instructed to associate with the client device to provide the client device with access i.e. a persistent connection to the WLAN. This can be accomplished in any suitable way. By way of example and not limitation in at least some embodiments as described in detail below the central controller s manages an ACL on the selected AP by instructing the AP via its software AP daemon to modify the list i.e. amend by adding or removing entries . When the AP receives a probe request message from a client the selected AP refers to its ACL to determine whether it should respond to the probe request message with a probe response message. As such the central controller s effectively directs the selected AP to respond to probe requests from the client and thus be discovered by the client device causing the selected AP to be available for association with the client device.

As noted above it is advantageous to periodically or continuously monitor AP information being collected to centrally determine whether the environment has changed such that one or more client device to AP mappings should be changed via handoff typically disassociation followed by association . In the context of the AP selected at this might involve centrally determining that the client device should be handed off to another AP. As such at AP information continues to be collected and monitored.

At a determination is made whether to handoff the client device from the selected AP to another AP. In another words a determination is made whether to disassociate the selected AP from the client device and replace it with another AP. This determination can be based on any suitable factors s and can be accomplished in any suitable way. By way of example and not limitation in at least some embodiments the information collected centrally from the APs is utilized to make this determination. In this regard the information is evaluated with respect to one or more handoff policies to ascertain 1 whether the selected AP and potentially other APs in the WLAN are overloaded and or whether the client device has moved with respect to the selected AP and or other APs in the WLAN and 2 whether another AP is preferable with respect to associating with the client device. Note that while through describe centrally managing client to AP mappings in the context of a particular client device in the context of the WLAN as a whole the collected information can be evaluated with respect to the one or more handoff policies to identify 1 which AP s are overloaded 2 which of the client devices associated with those AP s would benefit from being handed off 3 how often the collected information should be evaluated and 4 which AP s each of the client s are to be handed off. These handoff policies will be described in more detail below.

If it is determined at that the selected AP should not be handed off to another AP No AP information continues to be collected and monitored at . However if it is determined at that the selected AP should be handed off to another AP Yes at another AP is selected and then directed to associate with the client device. In other words a second access point is selected to replace the first selected access point. The selection of the AP can be accomplished in any suitable way such as by utilizing the association polices described above.

Once another preferable AP is selected for the client device the AP is directed to associate with the client device. For this to occur the previously selected AP which is associated with the client device is directed to disassociate from the client device. In this way the client device is handed off from the AP it was associated with to the most recently selected AP. While this can be accomplished in any suitable way in at least some embodiments as described in detail below this handoff can be accomplished so that the client device s access to the WLAN is not interrupted. Note that once the handoff has completed AP information continues to be collected and monitored at .

Each operation in process is depicted as a darkened line with one end terminating in a directional pointer. Each operation can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In the context of software the blocks represent computer instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. The order in which each operation is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operation can be combined in any suitable order to implement the process or an alternate process. Additionally individual suitable operations may be deleted from the process without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein.

Recall from above that by centrally managing client device to AP mappings the throughput capacity available to each client device in the WLAN can be dramatically improved. Also recall that this can be accomplished by preventing the client device from determining which AP within range it will associate with. To prevent the client from making this decision the client device can be barred from discovering which APs are within range by configuring APs in the WLAN so that they do not by default 1 advertise their presence by broadcasting beacon signals by either not broadcasting them at all or by hiding the SSID from the client device or 2 respond to probe requests automatically including those requests with the SSID set to ANY .

At operation client device broadcasts probe request messages to discover which if any APs are within range. These messages include a SSID and the client s MAC address as will be understood and appreciated by one skilled in the art. In this regard client device can be considered to be attempting to wirelessly connect to WLAN . Computing device software AP and computing device software AP are within range of client device and capable of providing client device with access to WLAN . As such for the sake of discussion computing device software AP and computing device software AP can be considered candidates .

At operation computing device software AP and computing device software AP the candidates each receive the probe request messages and each check to see if 1 the SSID is appropriate and 2 the MAC address in the message matches a MAC entry in its ACL. Each ACL is managed by the central management module s on server device via the software AP daemon on the computing device software AP. Since managing these ACLs includes determining which MAC addresses are added to and or subtracted from the ACL the central management module s centrally controls which client device s each AP in WLAN associates with. Here the SSID matches but the MAC address does not match an entry in either of the ACLs on the computing devices software APs. This is because the central management module s relying on the fact that the client device s MAC is not in the ACLs to prevent the client from discovering the APs on WLAN and selecting an AP to associate with has not instructed computing device software AP or computing device software AP to add the client device s MAC to their respective ACLs. In other words if the SSID was appropriate and the MAC address in the client device s probe request message matched an entry in one or both of the computing devices software APs the computing devices software AP with the matching entry would immediately respond to the probe request message and thus be discovered by the client device which could then to decide whether or not to associate with it .

As will be understood and appreciated by one skilled in the art computing device software AP and computing device software AP each inform the central management module s about receiving the probe request messages and the MAC address included in the messages. Assuming that the client device broadcasts a probe request message with an SSID that is appropriate at operation upon being informed of the probe request messages received by the computing devices software APs the central management module s i.e. central controller uses AP information it has collected to determine i.e. select which AP should associate to with the client device. As noted above this can include evaluating the collected information with respect to one or more association policies to identify which AP candidate is associated with certain desirable characteristics such as having certain desirable characteristics such as the most available air time i.e. the least load burden and or the highest average expected data rate between it and the new client device for example. In at least some embodiments these characteristics can be represented as one or more values. In at least some embodiments these association policies are embodied as one or more algorithms that can be utilized to process the collected information.

Once the central management module s has selected a candidate it directs the candidate via the software AP daemon on the candidate as described above to associate with client device . Specifically assuming the selected candidate is computing device software AP the central management module s sends a message to computing device software AP instructing i.e. directing it to add the MAC address for client device to its ACL list.

At operation upon receiving the next probe request message from client device computing device software AP the selected candidate will check to see if the client device s MAC address matches an entry in its ACL. Assuming the computing device software AP followed the central management module s instructions and added the client device s MAC address to its ACL it finds a match and replies with a unicast probe response message thus initiating the association process.

Each operation in process is depicted as a darkened line with one end terminating in a directional pointer. Each operation can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In the context of software the blocks represent computer instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. The order in which each operation is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operation can be combined in any suitable order to implement the process or an alternate process. Additionally individual suitable operations may be deleted from the process without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein.

Recall from above that WLANs are dynamic environments where the connectivity and location of client devices can change dramatically over time. This is especially true with WLAN which has a relatively dense infrastructure of wireless APs. Accordingly with respect to enhancing the throughput capacity available to client devices on WLAN it is advantageous to monitor AP information being collected to centrally determine whether a client device associated with an AP the associated AP should be handed off to another AP. While this can be determined in any suitable way in at least some embodiments this can include evaluating the collected information with respect to one or more handoff policies directed to determine 1 when the associated AP and or other APs in WLAN are overloaded i.e. when the load on an AP exceeds a certain designated threshold and or 2 if a client device of interest has moved within WLAN . In at least some embodiments the one or more handoff policies are embodied as one or more algorithms that can be utilized to process the collected information.

When it is determined that a handoff is warranted it is also advantageous to transparently hand off client devices so that their persistent connection to WLAN remains uninterrupted without requiring any modifications to client devices. As such process describes a series of operations for transparently handing off client device from device software AP to computing device software AP . These handoffs are initiated controlled and otherwise managed centrally by the central management module s on server device . As such these handoffs can be characterized as explicit handoffs rather than implicit handoffs where client devices are responsible for initiating and managing their own handoffs.

At operation the central management module s i.e. central controller s having determined that client device should be handed off from device software AP to computing device software AP as described above sends a message to computing device software AP instructing i.e. directing it to add the MAC address for client device to its ACL list.

At operation the central management module s sends a message to computing device software AP instructing i.e. directing it to send out a proxy gratuitous ARP to update various devices on WLAN and any networks communicatively linked to WLAN such as backhaul network . This proxy gratuitous ARP is essentially a gratuitous ARP sent on behalf of client device which as will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art causes any future communications directed to client device to be routed to computing device software AP rather than to computing device software AP .

At operation the central management s module sends a message to computing device software AP instructing it to send a disassociate message to client device . As such at operation computing device software AP removes the MAC address for client device from its ACL and sends a disassociation message to client device . In addition as will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art computing device software AP performs all activities necessary for it to become disassociated from client device . Note that communications directed to client device have been routed to computing device software AP ever since it sent the proxy gratuitous ARP.

At operation client device receives the disassociate message from computing device software AP and immediately begins to scan for other APs associated with the same SSID by broadcasting probe request messages designating that SSID. At operation upon receiving a probe request message broadcasted by client device computing device software AP responds with a probe response message thus initiating association with client device . Note that by virtue of the fact that computing device software AP is able to associate with client device without causing a local media disconnect client device does not send out a DHCP request and can continue using the same communicative session IP address. In other words since the time taken to disassociate from computing device software AP and associate with computing device software AP is less than the local media disconnect timeout time on client device the persistent connection to WLAN enjoyed by client device is not disturbed.

The following example algorithm provides but one way that an association policy can be implemented. This algorithm constitutes but one exemplary implementation of the association policies described above.

Note that the exemplary algorithm above involves representing each potential association between each available AP candidate identified in APlist and a new client device C as a single number representing the available throughput capacity of the AP. In this regard the general approach taken by this algorithm is to select a certain number of APs within range of a new client device. The APs in this group AP are selected based on the strength of signal s message s received from them i.e. RSSI which typically correlates with the proximity of the AP to the new client device. In other words the RSSI of the signal s message s received from an AP in this group exceed a certain signal strength threshold within the 85th percentile of maximum RSSI in the above algorithm . Once the group of APs are selected each AP candidate is assigned a single value i.e. number based on the product of values associated with its operational features. Specifically the single value in the above algorithm is defined by the product of 1 the average expected data rate ExpectedRate between it and the new client device expressed as a ExpectedRate value and 2 the free air time it has available for the new client device expressed as its FreeAirTime value . In other words each AP is associated with a value that is calculated by multiplying its ExpectedRate by its FreeAirTime as will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art.

As noted above this single value assigned to each AP in the selected group is intended to represent the available throughput capacity of that AP. This single value can be used uniformly for comparing various possible APs candidates to identify i.e. select a preferable AP having the highest single value to associate with the new client device C. By assigning a value to each available AP the preferred AP is effectively selected as a function of the value which can be updated over time such that another AP can be chosen in the future. The intuition behind this approach is based on the conservative assumption that each new client device C shall use as much free capacity as it can get. Hence it needs to be assigned to an AP that can potentially give it the most enhanced throughput capacity.

With respect to the FreeAirTime it is a function defined by 1 AirTimeUsed wherein AirTimeUsed is the air time utilization normalized across a certain time duration. This duration can be any length such as five seconds in at least one embodiment as will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art. As such each AP s free air time can be thought of as a measure of the load which that AP is burdened with. Information associated with the AirTimeUsed is provided by each AP to the central controller. This FreeAirTime can be thought of as the available air time a particular client device can expect to receive when connected to a particular AP. In other words from the perspective of a particular AP the wireless channel capacity in the vicinity of the AP is consumed by certain activities packets being sent by the AP packets being sent to the AP and transmission interference from other sources e.g. client devices associated with other APs nearby . The remaining channel capacity is the free air time. The air time utilization and thus the AirTimeUsed and FreeAirTime can be determined by utilizing certain techniques such as those described in co pending patent application Ser. No. 11 753 536 filed May 24 2007 and assigned to Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash.

With respect to ExpectedRate it is a function that is calculated in situ on an online basis. Intuitively it is the average data rate a particular client device can expect to receive when connected to a particular AP. The ExpectedRate function can be calculated periodically in the following way. As will be appreciated and understood by one skilled in the art each AP broadcasts packets at various data rates and keeps track of all broadcast packets it has received from other APs recording the received signal strength indication RSSI and the particular data rate for each packet. Broadcast packets are not re transmitted and hence the reception rate of packets at every AP when sent out at a particular rate from every AP can be used to a build a rate mapping that depicts the relationship between RSSI and reception rate for a given data rate.

The outcome of the process of building such a rate map is an approximate relationship between RSSI and data rate i.e. if an AP hears from a client at a given RSSI value what is the expected average data rate ExpectedRate between the two . This rate map can be used as a rough approximation rather than a precise metric. Furthermore even if a poor selection is made utilizing this algorithm the ramifications will be mitigated by the use of the load balancing policies described in detail below.

Recall that to balance the load placed on each AP in a dynamically ever changing WLAN certain handoff policies can be utilized to evaluate information collected from the APs in the WLAN. As noted above in the context of the WLAN as a whole the collected information can be evaluated with respect to certain handoff policies to identify 1 which AP s are overloaded 2 which of the client devices associated with those AP s would benefit from being handed off 3 how often the collected information should be evaluated and 4 which AP each of the client devices are to be handed off. Certain exemplary handoff polices for load balancing are described below with respect to identifying 1 4 for each client device and or AP in a WLAN in accordance with at least some embodiments.

With respect to 1 identifying which AP s are overloaded an AP is considered to be overloaded if the utilization of the wireless channel that the AP is on exceeds a defined percentage such as 80 in some embodiments of the load on the AP. This load can be determined by certain measurement techniques such as those described in Patent Application Publication Number US200610215574 filed Mar. 24 2005 and assigned to Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash.

Client devices associated with an overloaded AP on a WLAN may benefit by being handed off to another AP capable of providing the client device with a higher throughput. Alternatively or additionally clients remaining associated with the overloaded AP will benefit because the burden on the overloaded AP will be diminished.

With respect to 2 identifying which of the client devices associated with those AP s would benefit from being handed off all client devices associated with overloaded AP s are considered in the order of the AP air time they are consuming. In this regard a client device is considered a device that would benefit from being handed off from an overloaded AP if the client device is bottlenecked on the overloaded AP. Additionally or alternatively for a client device to be considered a device that would benefit from being handed off there should be an available candidate AP for the client device to be handed off to that is capable of providing the client device with an improved throughput capacity i.e. a candidate AP should allow the client device to pump more data . In other words in the context of the exemplary association policy above the product of the free air time FreeAirTime and the expected average data rate ExpectedRate of the candidate AP should be greater than that being made available by the AP that is already associated with the client device. In at least some embodiments a client device handoff could be considered inappropriate unless the throughput capacity available to the client device on the candidate AP could be improved by a certain fraction e.g. 20 . This would minimize handoffs due to small fluctuations in loads and or interference levels.

With respect to 3 identifying how often the collected information should be evaluated this evaluation can be performed continuously. With respect to continuously evaluating in at least some embodiments overloaded APs are considered based on the size of the load placed on them. In addition each of the client devices associated with an overloaded AP are considered in an order based upon the airtime demand they place on the overloaded AP. Furthermore once a client device is handed off to another AP the client device is not eligible to be handed of again for a certain period of time such as one minute for example. This prevents unnecessarily handing off of client devices due to small fluctuations in load and interference on the WLAN. Finally to allow the effects of the handoff to be realized APs involved in a handoff are not involved in any additional handoffs for a defined period such as one minute for example.

With respect to 4 identifying which AP s each of the client s are to be handed off a bottlenecked client device should be moved to another AP only if there is some chance that it will no longer be bottlenecked. In other words for a handoff to be warranted the destination AP should be able provide the bottlenecked client device with an enhanced throughput capacity which in at least some embodiments is the product of an AP s free air time and average expected data rate . Furthermore by utilizing one or more suitable association policies such as the exemplary association policy described above the destination AP associated with the most enhanced throughput capacity can easily be identified and selected. Practically speaking a defined threshold for enhanced throughput capacity can be set e.g. 20 to minimize handoffs due to small fluctuations in load and interference in the WLAN. However this might not always be desired. For instance if it is decided that handing off a particular client device will benefit the throughput capacity of one or other client devices in the WLAN an equivalent throughput capacity might be sufficient to justify a handoff.

Recall that to balance the load placed on each AP in a dynamically ever changing WLAN certain handoff policies can be utilized to evaluate information collected from the APs in the WLAN. In the context of the WLAN as a whole the collected information can be evaluated with respect to certain handoff policies to determine whether the client device has moved to a new location within the WLAN and whether to handoff the client device to another AP. Certain exemplary handoff polices for client device movement are described below for each client device in a WLAN in accordance with at least one embodiment.

With respect to determining whether the client device has moved to a new location within the WLAN this can be performed at any suitable time and frequency e.g. every 30 seconds . Furthermore in determining whether a particular client device has physically moved within the WLAN any suitable location technique s can be employed. In at least some embodiments location estimation techniques are employed that are described in co pending patent application Ser. No. 11 753 536 filed May 24 2007 and assigned to Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. In this regard any suitable threshold distance e.g. 10 or more meters can be used to determine whether or not the client device s physical movement should justify performing a handoff i.e. 2 above .

With respect to determining whether to handoff the client device to another AP this can be accomplished by evaluating whether another AP will be able provide the client device that has moved with an enhanced throughput capacity which in at least some embodiments is the product of an AP s free air time and average expected data rate . Furthermore by utilizing suitable association policies such as the exemplary association policy described above the destination AP associated with the most enhanced throughput capacity can easily be identified and selected. Practically speaking a defined threshold for enhanced throughput capacity can be set e.g. 20 to minimize handoffs that would not lead to justifiable improvements in the throughput capacity available to the client device. However this might not always be desired. For instance if it is decided that handing off a particular client device will benefit the throughput capacity of one or other client devices in the WLAN an equivalent throughput capacity might be sufficient to justify a handoff.

With the techniques described above the central controller s determines which AP the client is allowed to associate with. It is therefore important for the central controller s to detect any AP that is malfunctioning so it can avoid assigning clients to that AP. Any suitable criteria can be employed in determining whether an AP is considered to be malfunctioning. By way of example and not limitation in at least some embodiments an AP is considered to be malfunctioned if one or more clients fail to associate with the AP within an acceptable period of time. Additionally or alternatively an AP that is able to associate with one or more clients within an acceptable period of time may nevertheless be considered to be malfunctioning if that AP fails to provide a certain level of service e.g. throughput to the one or more client devices.

Practically speaking any suitable process and or policy ies can be utilized with respect to detecting any AP that is malfunctioning. By way of example and not limitation consider a client device that has been assigned to a certain AP associated with a WLAN. In this regard utilizing the techniques described above a central controller s can start a timer when the client device is assigned to the AP. If within a specified period e.g. 30 seconds the certain AP does not report that the client device has successfully associated with it the central controller s can take the following steps. First it adds the certain AP to a list of undesirable APs for the client device. Next it attempts to find another AP i.e. one that does not feature in the undesirable list for this client to assign to the client device to. At the same time it increases a special counter for the certain AP called the failure count. If the failure count reaches a certain threshold value e.g. 5 within a specified time e.g. 1 hour for the certain AP is marked as malfunctioning and the system administrator is notified. This can potentially be performed with respect to each AP and each client device associated with the WLAN. As such the failure count for each AP as well as the undesirable AP list associated with each client can be purged at regular intervals.

Although embodiments of techniques for increasing the throughput capacity available to client devices such as mobile devices connected to a wireless local area network WLAN have been described in language specific to structural features and or methods it is to be understood that the subject of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as exemplary implementations.

