---

title: Three-dimensional localization, display, recording, and analysis of electrical activity in the cerebral cortex
abstract: The present invention describes a method and apparatus to localize the electrical signals measured from a subject's scalp surface, preferably in near-real time, and to generate dynamic three-dimensional information of the electrical activity occurring within the cerebral cortex of the brain. In the preferred embodiment, it can produce images that can be immediately inspected and analyzed by an operator in near-real time, resulting in a powerful new cortical imaging modality, which we denote as Dynamic Electrocortical Imaging (DECI). The present invention involves the use of a computer, an electroencephalographic (EEG) amplifier, EEG electrodes, and custom software. It can measure healthy and diseased cortical events and states in both conscious and unconscious subjects. This is useful, as it allows for the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of cortical disorders, while also furthering the understanding of the human brain and lending use to additional non-medical applications such as in entertainment, education, lie-detection and industry. The invention in one embodiment is implemented using software in conjunction with readily available EEG hardware. Furthermore, this same method can be applied to pre-existing data and when doing so, EEG hardware is not required. Having a practical near-real time 3D imaging system brings a far more accessible technology to doctors, researchers, individuals, and private clinics to better diagnose, monitor, treat and understand many of the conditions and abnormalities of the brain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09179854&OS=09179854&RS=09179854
owner: 
number: 09179854
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20071031
---
This application is a Continuation of PCT application PCT CA20061000776 filed May 16 2006 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application 60 681 140 filed 2005 May 16. This application claims priority to each of these applications and incorporates the content of each by reference.

The present invention relates largely to medical devices concerning the brain and is a method and apparatus to non invasively localize in three dimensions 3D electrical activity in the cerebral cortex of the brain display the localized electrical activity in the form of 3D motion pictures and to perform statistical analysis and quantification of the localized electrical activity all in near real time.

The human cerebral cortex is the convoluted outer surface of the brain commonly known as gray matter and is responsible for many of the higher functions including those associated with thought action emotion and sensation. The cerebral cortex largely due to its complexity is also susceptible to a large number of disorders and diseases many of which lack proper objective diagnoses or require expensive medical equipment to properly diagnose.

Often elucidating specific cortical functions or diagnosing diseases requires the three dimensional 3D localization of what regions of the cerebral cortex are responsible and subsequent display of these regions in the form of one or more images. There are a number of existing technologies that have been utilized that accomplish this including examples such as 

Each of these technologies has its strengths and weaknesses. Some of the technologies listed above are capable of localizing specific features to a resolution of less than 1 mm although only MEG is capable of capturing many three dimensional images per second at that resolution the others require seconds to minutes for each image. MEG is also the most costly of the above technologies and the least accessible. In general these technologies are very expensive typically 1 000 000 10 000 000 USD per machine. In addition to the cost of the machine itself technical staff maintenance fees specialized environments and chemical or radioactive agents may also be required. For example SPECT and PET scanners perform their function by detecting injected radioisotopes to obtain functional and or spatial information the sensitivity of MRI scanners can be increased by introducing chemical contrast agents into subjects and MEG scanners require magnetically shielded rooms often located underground. These machines are physically large and require entire spaces to be devoted to their function hence restricted to larger medical institutions and universities and most definitely not portable. It is primarily for the aforementioned reasons that these technologies are largely inaccessible to both members of the general population and much of the academic and private research community.

Consequently there is a clear need for new technologies that can perform to a similar level but for much reduced base and operating costs while increasing portability.

There exists however a related technology that can match the temporal resolution of MEG is portable but cannot localize in three dimensions events that take place within the cerebral cortex. The related technology the electroencephalograph EEG recorder can measure electrical potentials between any number of electrodes placed on a subject s scalp and changes in the electrical activity of the cerebral cortex will produce a change in voltage or electric potential of the electrode. When the individually measured changes in voltage from an electrode are measured over time it becomes a signal. The electrical activity of the cerebral cortex is thought to originate from the interactions between the firing and resulting movement of ions of excitatory pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons.

Attempts have been made within prior art to localize EEG signals and to elucidate the spatiotemporal patterns of electrical activity within the cerebral cortex although there have been significant shortcomings in the results that these methodologies produce for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 407 299 to Culver 1983 restricts localization to a two dimensional topographic map based on the known positions of the EEG electrodes but does not offer any depth information U.S. Pat. No. 5 361 774 to Yamazaki requires prior knowledge of the function in question to generate an assumption by which the localization solution can refine and U.S. Pat. No. 5 701 909 to Amir requires extensive computer processing due to solution specific optimization which precludes widespread general use. U.S. Pat. No. 5 307 807 to Valdes Sosa 1994 describes a method and system to localize EEG signals in three dimensions using an inverse solution approximation source localization algorithm however it does not reduce to practice any applications nor is it performed in near real time significantly reducing the clinical relevance and it relies on tomographs 2D slices to convey three dimensional data which complicates the interpretation of contiguous 3D data.

it is an object of the invention to be used to localize electrical activity in the human cerebral cortex in three dimensions 

it is an object of the invention to be used as an aid for diagnosis and as an aid to medical monitoring and as an aid to treatment 

it is an object of the invention to be used as a research aid to investigate mental psychological and physical cortical processes states and or conditions 

it is an object of the invention to be used in non medical applications including entertainment games lie detection industrial applications peak performance training and educational purposes 

it is an object of the invention to display images of the localized electrical activity in 3D in near real time in an intuitive manner in accordance with the interpretative ability and organization of the brains of the operators to understand the changing electrical activity in real time 3D terms as opposed to 2D slices which are awkward to look at as seen with tomographic methods 

it is an object of the invention to record display and analyze the localized electrical activity in various forms in near real time 1 transient i.e. brief cortical activities including events lasting less than a second 2 cortical states which are longer activities and 3 transitions from state to state or from event to event and between events and states 

it is an object of the invention to store the recorded localized electrical activity or original electrical signals to a recordable medium for later review 

the invention accomplishes the above all in near real time with superior temporal resolution conventional imaging modalities with the exception of MEG are not fast enough to capture fine details of many of events that occur in the cerebral cortex. Our invention also has the ability to detect events as short as permitted by the EEG amplifier utilized by the system typically half a millisecond or less. The only other cortical imaging modality capable of this temporal resolution MEG is approximately 500 times more expensive than this setup and requires special magnetically shielded rooms 

the invention accomplishes the above in a computationally inexpensive manner by incorporating the latest in inverse solution approximation source localization algorithms. The algorithms mathematically reconstruct a three dimensional electric activity distribution from a montage of EEG electrodes placed externally on the scalp. The algorithms have a spatial accuracy of approximately 7 mm or better depending on which of the algorithms is utilized 

the invention can utilize many such algorithms some of which have already attained extensive peer review such as the LORETA S LORETA and the Minimum Norm algorithms.

the invention accomplishes the above in a portable and inexpensive manner by avoiding the prohibitive operating and setup costs that render conventional cortical imaging modalities a inaccessible and by utilizing inexpensive EEG equipment coupled with a mobile computer running custom software 

the invention is practical and can be used in an ordinary office setting and even potentially in an ambulance or in an operating room 

the invention is safe as it utilizes a type of hardware EEG amplifiers and electrodes that has been proven safe and has been in clinical use for several decades 

the invention can be used to make a rapid diagnosis as it operates in near real time which is of great practical use since a patient can potentially be diagnosed on the spot. This can potentially save lives as it could speed up implementing the correct treatment. In addition in the absence of a rapid diagnosis the delay leaves both doctor and patient alike wondering about the outcome 

the invention by localizing EEG in 3D provides useful information about cortical activity that would otherwise be very difficult to find in the original EEG signals due to the fact that signals from an electrode that when examined in isolation appear as noise because they are without spatial context. Localization provides a partial solution to the so called signal to noise problem which is a key challenge in the field and has been an impeding factor in developing EEG based clinical diagnostic tests.

The objects of the present invention are useful and provides clear advantages over prior art for understanding how the brain works for diagnosing and monitoring various neurological and psychological conditions and as a guidance system for targeting parts of the brain for treatment interventions. For example as much as 68 of the EEGs of psychiatric patients are abnormal and there is a need for technologies that can localize the disturbed parts of the brain.

Part of the value of the invention is derived from it being a near real time modality but significant additional value originates from the analytical power created by its various data filters three dimensional display tools statistical analysis tools and the graphical user interface implemented within our software. By the term graphical user interface we mean our method of display and presenting images and visual information on the screen to the operator and not simply still two dimensional graphics. The invention displays evolving 3D images as they change with time on the screen.

The human cerebral cortex performs numerous functions and therefore it is not surprising that the devices and methods that image the cortex have a longer list of functions and uses than most inventions.

Disease related monitoring refers to ongoing measurement and imaging which detects changes in the brain. Whereas diagnosis aims to determine the nature a disorder monitoring is useful to determine changes including deteriorations or improvements in a condition. Medical monitoring is especially useful in observing patients who are unstable or vulnerable.

The techniques and methods described herein may be used for medical research and brain physiological research to understand the causes of diseases human behavior and mental processing. Research applications of the present invention include 

Non Medical Applications Including Industrial Applications Entertainment Games Lie Detection and Education.

Applications of the present invention may include the above mentioned non medical applications for the following reasons 

The present invention describes a method and apparatus to localize the electrical signals in measured from a subject s scalp surface in near real time and to generate dynamic three dimensional information of the electrical activity occurring within the cerebral cortex of the brain. It can produce images that can be immediately inspected and analyzed by an operator in near real time resulting in a powerful new cortical imaging modality which we denote as Dynamic Electrocortical Imaging DECI . The present invention involves the use of a computer an electroencephalographic EEG amplifier EEG electrodes and custom software. It can measure healthy and diseased cortical events and states in both conscious and unconscious subjects. This is useful as it allows for the diagnosis monitoring and treatment of cortical disorders while also furthering the understanding of the human brain and lending use to additional non medical applications such as in entertainment education lie detection and industry. We have implemented the methods of the invention using software written by us in conjunction with readily available EEG hardware. Furthermore we can apply this same method to pre existing data and when doing so EEG hardware is not required. By having a practical near real time 3D imaging system we hope to bring a far more accessible technology to doctors researchers individuals and private clinics to better diagnose monitor treat and understand many of the conditions and abnormalities of the brain.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is outlined in . It consists of several fundamental steps where 

Step entails the application of electrodes on a subject s scalp. This requires a practical method to hold the electrodes in place on the scalp so as to make good electrical contact. Typically this is accomplished with manually attached electrodes with adhesives or caps cap like structures that fit over a subject s scalp that integrate or have adapters for the electrodes a number of these are commercially available. A conductive medium is also generally required for the conductance of electrical signals between the scalp and electrodes typically the conductive medium is the same as the adhesive used although it can be separate. The positions of the electrodes may be known to assist in the localization calculations or generalized electrode positions based on ratios or morphological features of the scalp such as the 10 20 System may be utilized. The electrodes may also be placed symmetrically or asymmetrically around the subject s head and different caps with varying numbers of electrodes and electrode spacing may also be utilized. Custom electrodes may also be utilized with varying geometrical shapes and configurations.

Step entails the connecting of the electrodes to the EEG amplifier recorder that digitizes signals obtained from electrodes placed on a subject s scalp. The particular setup used in the demonstrated reduction to practice includes a Twente Medical Systems International TMSI REFA32 digital EEG recorder.

Step entails the capturing of relevant electrical signals by a computer from the EEG amplifier recorder. This is a multi step process as the signal that is output by the amplifier recorder is unusable in its raw state. It is at this point data may be subjected to near real time component and feature isolation and artifact noise removal such as those generated by movement interfering electric fields and what is known as the DC offset the potential difference or voltage resulting from the interface between scalp and electrode which is far larger in magnitude than any of the relevant electrophysiological signals . The filters may include but are not limited to low high band pass or band stop filtering discrete Fourier analysis Kalmann filtering Z or Hilbert transforms or similar analytical filtering or spectral analysis techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example DC offset would be removed using a frequency filter such as the Fast Fourier Transform FFT or windowed sinc filter to remove all very low frequencies typically below 0.1 Hz. EEG data filters generally operate by transforming the most recently acquired EEG signal or frames where the number of frames acquired per second is equal to the sampling frequency of the EEG amplifier recorder by a process specific to the particular filter in question for example the windowed sinc filter designed to isolate or remove a range of frequencies would involve convolving the most recent segment of EEG frames acquired from the recorder with the filter kernel generated from the specified parameters of high and low ends of a frequency range along with the intention to band pass or band stop those frequencies . It is noted that DC offset removal may not be required if another filter operates on the data such that the removal would be superfluous an example of this would be a band pass filter between 8 and 12 Hz as all 

Step entails the use of a computer in processing the captured electrical signals from step transforming it into localized electrical activity represented within three dimensional space using a mathematical procedure or combination of procedures. expands on this step when using inverse solution approximation algorithms for localization. At this point the localized electrical activity data can optionally be filtered e.g. for statistics near real time diagnostics state changes. This also utilizes plugin architecture. After the transformation the data can optionally be displayed on a monitor in near real time.

Near real time recording and 3D localization of electrical activity is accomplished by the continuous capture and processing of EEG data steps a loop of operation until the termination of the procedure.

Pascual Marqui R D Michel C M Lehmann D. Low resolution electromagnetic tomography a new method for localizing electrical activity in the brain. International Journal of Psychophysiology 1994 18 49 65.

Any appropriate inverse solution approximation algorithm could be used other possibilities include but are not limited to 

The demonstrated reduction to practice also currently implements a solution space of 2394 voxels available in the public domain based on the MNI 305 template of neuroanatomical data from the Montreal Neurological Institute MNI based on the averaging of 305 MRI scans of human brains. This solution space is first described in 

A. C. Evans and D. L. Collins and S. R. Mills and E. D. Brown and R. L. Kelly and T. M. Peters 3D statistical neuroanatomical models from 305 MRI volumes Proc. IEEE Nuclear Science Symposium and Medical Imaging Conference 1813 1817 1993.

Any appropriate cortical solution space could be used other possibilities include but are not limited to 

The execution of a particular application may involve the further spatial filtering of voxels by which only those voxels that are deemed by the application to be relevant or of interest are included in subsequent calculations as depicted by step . Step depicts the optional step where only voxels exceeding or falling within a certain threshold of electrical activity would be included in subsequent calculations for example only those voxels that are in the bottom 50 of electrical activities at the present time would be included in further steps. Step refers to the optional display and manipulations of the voxels and localized electrical activity as previously described in . At this point the displayed voxels and localized electrical activity may optionally then be incorporated into the final presentation method described further below and depicted in step . Alternatively instead of graphically displaying the localized electrical activity as in steps the localized electrical activity may be displayed as alphanumeric text as demonstrated in and depicted in step followed by the optional incorporation into the final presentation method depicted by step .

Step depicts the optional acquisition of signals in near real time from other devices such as those that capture video audio physiological parameters or information from remote locations as in the case of telemedicine which could then further contribute to the function and operation of the invention.

Step depicts the setting up of the other devices or effectors involved in the acquisition of additional signals manipulating the environment or functioning as transmitters to remote locations. This is further elaborated upon in .

Step entails a final presentation method to present results to the human operator of the invention which generally may be any one or combination of the items below 

Following step the human operator may interpret the results presented using the final presentation method and then act accordingly depending on the intended application for the present invention as depicted in step .

Step follows step the capturing of electrical signals EEG signals since they originated from the cerebral cortex from the amplifier recorder and it depicts the optional further processing of the EEG signals that extends beyond the filtering described in step this may include examining the signals for certain features or thresholding activity originating from within any or all electrodes.

Step follows step in that the EEG signals may then be displayed on a screen and optionally further incorporated into the final presentation method in step . This has been reduced to practice as part of the invention s custom software as shown in the right panel of . This was accomplished by drawing onto the display each electrode name on the screen in a vertical list and for each electrode drawing lines connecting each data point with each point representing the electrical potential read from the electrode and captured with the computer from the amplifier recorder at that time in the Y axis and the time of capture in the X axis preceding the present time.

Stimulation of the subject depicted in step may also be an optional step during the operation of the present invention depicted as leading into step the start of the near real time loop of operation as it may be a relevant requirement of the chosen application of the present invention. This stimulation may be performed in several ways 

Step depicts the setup of a transmitter and receiver for the purpose of telemedicine. The transmitter could be anything capable of sending a signal with sufficient bandwidth to capture the near real time localized electrical activity data. This could be performed over a private network the internet or through wireless transmission of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths similar to those use by radio or television broadcasts. The transmitter would be located at the site where the subject is located and connected to the present invention. The receiver would be at a remote location and would use the same medium of communication that the transmitter would use and it would be connected to an alternate remote site embodiment of the present invention where the receiver would generate the electrical activity signals as opposed to a computer transforming electrical signals captured from an EEG amplifier recorder. Step depicts the operation of the aforementioned transmitters and receivers. Data would be transmitted at the subject site prior to step and the data would be received at the remote site before step in the remote site embodiment of the present invention.

Steps depict the setup capturing recording and playing of an audio signal. The audio signal capturing device such as a microphone connected to a soundcard in a computer would be connected in step following step . During the operation of the present invention audio signals may then be captured for use by the present invention in step as depicted in step recorded as in step or played as in step . Audio signals may be recorded to random access memory on an external media such as a CD DVD or cassette or onto a hard drive. Playing of the audio signal could be integrated with the final presentation method in step or accomplished using a standalone loud speaker or equivalent.

Steps depict the setup capturing recording and playing of a video signal. The video signal capturing device such as a digital camera or camcorder connected to a video card in a computer would be connected in step following step . During the operation of the present invention video signals may then be captured for use by the present invention in step as depicted in step recorded as in step or displayed as in step . Video signals may be recorded to random access memory on an external media such as a CD DVD or cassette or onto a hard drive. Displaying of the video signal could be integrated with the final presentation method in step or accomplished using a standalone monitor or equivalent.

Steps depict the setup capturing recording and playing of physiological signals. Examples of physiological signal capturing devices include 

In order to perform many of the particular applications of the present invention listed in including diagnosing monitoring especially for an improvement or deterioration treating lie detecting educating the brain entertaining and effecting an industrial purpose it will be necessary to first conduct research on subjects to establish parameters such as 

There are two ways to establish these parameters as mentioned by the decision step autonomously and non autonomously. An autonomous way of establishing parameters involves the processing of the localized electrical activity information by algorithms without human involvement whereas the non autonomous establishment of these parameters initially involves a human operator observing gross phenomena which is step .

The observation of gross phenomena depicted by step means that there are changes that are noticeably visible to the operator of the present invention. One important type of observable gross phenomena is a correlation such as when the operator can see a noticeable change in a subject s near real time localized electrical activity and other cues such as gross deflections on the simultaneous near real time EEG signals or physiological signals. These changes would be observed using the final presentation method and initial interpretation mentioned in step . However there may other cues involved that are not related to the collection of signals such as gross facial expressions as well as audible utterances and gestures. After forming a judgment as to the occurrence of a correlation the operator may use the present invention to deconstruct the associated 3D signal. For example if one sees an interesting feature on EEG and associated localized electrical vectors that point away from that electrode s position adjacent to the solution space then one can play back the display in slow motion and perform simultaneous viewing so as to isolate precisely which vectors are most responsible for the observation of gross phenomena. This may require the utilization of a number of the tools or procedures described in this document as well as any sort of stimulus previously mentioned.

If the parameters mentioned in section 00099 are to be established autonomously then the decision in step must be made is the parameter going to involve a comparison or will it depend on a correlation If the answer is yes then the generation of normative datasets and abnormal datasets must occur steps and . If the answer is no then correlative datasets must be generated step .

Calculating statistical norms requires normal data. Step depicts the generation of normative data for the purpose of establishing a statistical norm. This entails the near real time collection of localized electrical activity from a number of subjects that are healthy and are not afflicted by the condition state or disorder that the particular research application is attempting to identify. It is possible to accomplish this in a way such that as the present invention is operating the normative dataset would continually be added to if the data is being stored in near real time either in the form of captured electrical signals localized electrical activity or processed localized electrical activity. In addition this same method can be utilized to generate a normative dataset for a patient s own healthy state.

Generating an abnormal dataset as mentioned in step requires a similar procedure with the exception that subjects are now required to be afflicted or expressing the condition state or disorder that the research application is attempting to identify.

It is possible to generate both normative and abnormal datasets in near real time on the basis of the following items 

The near real time averaging of values and calculation of standard deviations was accomplished by continuously adding the values in question i.e. current densities electrical activity vectors or electrical activity directions v into an memory buffer over time V and then dividing by the number of instances in time or frames that have elapsed n . In addition the standard deviation s at any given moment can be obtained by the following well known formula s v V n 1 . Alternatively averaging in near real time over a period of time for any sort of item mentioned can be accomplished by calculating a weighted average between the previously calculated average and the current value. For example if the invention has been operating for 1000 instances in time or frames to calculate the average at frame one would add the value at the current time frame divided by 1001 to the previous average calculated over the past 1000 frames multiplied by 1000 1001.

Calculating the change or instantaneous velocity of a vector component angle or current density was accomplished by taking the difference between the value at the current frame and the value at the previous frame.

Calculating the rotation of the electrical activity vectors was accomplished by normalizing the vector by its magnitude as previous described in .

Once the datasets have been generated comparisons can take place as denoted by step to ask such questions as 

To answer the above questions statistical tests between the two datasets have to be performed. It is possible to use tests such as t tests and its derivatives Poisson tests Xtests analysis of variance ANOVA topographical analysis of variance TANOVA multiple analysis of variance MANOVA general linear model GLM tests statistical parametric mapping SPM and statistical non parametric mapping to do this. The results of these tests could then be presented using the final presentation method step . Both t tests and Poisson tests have been reduced to practice by the present invention via the custom software. This was accomplished utilizing techniques known to those skilled in the art.

To generate a correlative dataset a similar approach to the generation of a normative or abnormal dataset can be undertaken only that instead of establishing a comparison a correlation between two or parameters would be generated instead as mentioned in step . Based on the correlative data generated thresholds can then be defined. For example in section 00026 it was mentioned that alcohol intoxication exhibited increased theta activity if one were to measure a subject whose level of intoxication was steadily increased through the consumption of a certain fermented hops and barley containing beverage and the subject s captured electrical signals were filtered for the theta range of frequencies then processed into localized electrical activity one could plot a correlation between frontal lobe theta band localized electrical activity and level of intoxication in near real time. One could also repeat this in a number of subjects to build a correlative index with a higher statistical power. The results of these correlative studies could then be presented using the final presentation method step . In the context of the above example if one were to then finally examine and interpret the correlative data one could determine a quantitative threshold based on the theta band localized electrical activity defining at what level of activity a subject would be considered to be legally intoxicated.

An additional important step in these aforementioned methods of research is the utilization of a stimulus applied to a subject to test for a response. This is encompassed by step . The present invention has been designed to perform this type of research. Research into the mechanism of action of drugs and into the discovery of characteristics of lying may be performed using this method.

The present invention has three principle methods to diagnosing brain disorders. Two are autonomous and one is not with the differences between the two approaches described previously in . Step is where the decision to use an autonomous method is made and the particular choice depends on the suspected brain disorder or provisional diagnosis made by a clinician. This decision may not require human choice as it may be predetermined depending on the disorder.

The non autonomous method is based on observation for known characteristics as depicted in step . Observation in this case means that the human operator is utilizing the final presentation method and interpretations thereof from step with all necessary potential signals and tools for manipulating electrical activity at the operator s disposal to make a diagnosis based on the operator s own experience in utilizing the present invention and interpreting for the particular brain disorder or brain disorders to be diagnosed in the patient. At this point the operator can then issue a diagnosis as depicted in step followed by the termination of the operation of the present invention as the procedure has been completed.

The autonomous methods are further divided into comparative and non comparative methods at the decision made in step . This decision may not require human choice as it may be predetermined depending on the disorder.

Step represents the autonomous comparative method where the patient s localized electrical activity is processed as mentioned in and compared to either the patient s own normal dataset or a normative dataset that is a statistical norm for healthy individuals not suffering from the patient s suspected condition. The comparison would be performed utilizing a number of statistical tests described in .

Step represents the autonomous non comparative method where the patient s localized electrical activity is processed as mentioned in and relevant activity assessed to see if it is crossing over or under a threshold derived from either the patient s own correlative dataset or a correlative dataset from a number of patients.

Upon the completion of either autonomous test a result or an alert would be indicated in step which could be interpreted by the operator either before or after integration into the final presentation method step .

Many of the methods utilized by this application are similar if not identical to those in the researching and diagnosing applications.

Step is describes the situation wherein a decision to use an autonomous method is made and the particular choice depends on the patient s monitorable condition. This decision may not require human choice as it may be predetermined depending on the monitorable condition.

The non autonomous method is based on observation for known characteristics as depicted in step . The operator performs this observation utilizing the tools and methods of the invention in addition to drawing upon the experience of the operator in recognizing changes in the monitorable condition. When a change is observed the operator can then issue an alert as depicted in step followed by the termination of the operation of the present invention as the procedure has been completed.

The autonomous methods are further divided into comparative and non comparative methods at the decision made in step . This decision may not require human choice as it may be predetermined depending on the monitorable condition.

Step represents the autonomous comparative method where the patient s localized electrical activity is processed as mentioned in and compared to either the patient s own normal dataset or a normative dataset that is a statistical norm for healthy individuals that are not exhibiting the patient s monitorable condition. The comparison would be performed utilizing a number of statistical tests described in .

Step represents the autonomous non comparative method where the patient s localized electrical activity is processed as mentioned in and relevant activity assessed to see if it is crossing over or under a threshold derived from either the patient s own correlative dataset or a correlative dataset from a number of patients.

Upon the completion of the autonomous test a result or an alert indicating a chance in condition would be indicated in step which could be interpreted by the operator either before or after integration into the final presentation method step or interpreted by the patient if a portable embodiment of the invention is utilized.

In general the role of the present invention in the realm of treatment is to serve as a guidance system to help target a particular treatment. This would be accomplished by using the present invention to isolate a target region or a target electrical activity pattern which is characteristic of a treatable condition. Subsequently a corrective action is taken using any of a number of treatment modalities described below.

Many of the methods utilized by this application are similar if not identical to those in the researching diagnosing and monitoring applications.

Step is where decision to use an autonomous method is made and the particular choice depends on the patient s treatable condition. This decision may not require human choice as it may be predetermined depending on the treatable condition.

The non autonomous method is based on observation for known characteristics as depicted in step . The operator performs this observation utilizing the tools and methods of the invention in addition to drawing upon the experience of the operator in recognizing regions or activities as potential targets in the treatable condition as shown in step .

The autonomous methods are further divided into comparative and non comparative methods at the decision made in step . This decision may not require human choice as it may be predetermined depending on the treatable condition.

Step represents the autonomous comparative method where the patient s localized electrical activity is processed as mentioned in and compared to either the patient s own normal dataset or a normative dataset that is a statistical norm for healthy individuals that are not exhibiting the patient s treatable condition. The comparison would be performed utilizing a number of statistical tests described in .

Step represents the autonomous non comparative method where the patient s localized electrical activity is processed as mentioned in and relevant activity assessed to see if it is crossing over or under a threshold derived from either the patient s own correlative dataset or a correlative dataset from a number of patients.

Upon the completion of the autonomous test regions or activities would be identified as potential targets for the treatable condition as shown in step .

When a target has been identified the operator can then proceed with administering a treatment as depicted by step such as a non invasive treatment with a transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS device or an entrainment device. Entrainment devices are used to attempt to modify the electrical activity in the patient s brain generally to bring about a beneficial effect. Such devices may stimulate the patient visually acoustically or via another sensory modality. TMS devices utilize magnetic fields to modify the patient s brain electrical activity. At this point the results of the treatment may be observed using the final presentation method step for effectiveness.

In addition the operator may want to refer the patient for a surgical intervention such as the implantation of a stimulatory or inhibitory device to invasively treat the target. At this point the operation of the present invention will terminate as the procedure has been completed.

To elaborate the trials may involve generating datasets from subjects who are instructed to lie or instructed to tell the truth and who comply with this request while connected to the present invention. These datasets of truths and lies may later be used when testing future subjects for lying and may serve as a basis for comparison.

The first specific step in the lie detecting application is the decision step asking whether to use an autonomous method. The answer depends on the results of the research trial into the most accurate determining test for truthfulness. If the trial indicates that the non autonomous method is ideal akin to how polygraphs are still completely human interpreted then steps will commence afterwards otherwise steps will.

The subject would then be stimulated as previously described in step where in this case the stimulus could be in the form of a question that would elicit a response from the subject which may or may not be a truthful one. It may also involve other forms of stimulation such as showing someone an object. In some instances no question is asked and the subject s electrical activity is studied for known indicators of lying.

Step is an optional step that involves the observation of a single or any combination of additional near real time signals from other signal acquisition devices such as those previously described in . Each of these signals may have characteristic markers for lying including previously known physiological markers for lying video markers for lying such as facial expressions and gestures or near real time audio markers of lying.

Step involves the observation for known characteristics utilizing interpretation of the final presentation method from step . The human operator may utilize any single tool or combination of tools for manipulating electrical activity to assist in the isolation of the localized activity specific to lying and truthfulness.

Based on the observations from step the human operator would then form an opinion on lying. At this point the application would be complete and the operation of the present invention terminated.

If the autonomous method of determining truthfulness was demonstrated to be ideal then step would execute the subject s localized electrical activity would be compared using the previously described statistical tests to the subject s own baseline normal truthful state or a baseline generated from a number of healthy truthful subjects in an identical way that the normative dataset would be generated from .

At this point a result or alert on the subject s truthfulness would be indicated by the statistical test utilized and incorporated into the final presentation method in step .

Step is the first step in this application which is to identify an objective for correction or improvement i.e. the subject or the subject with the assistance of a therapist must opt either to train a desirable electrical activity to occur or to decide to train an undesirable activity so that it does not occur. For example if a subject has difficulty concentrating then the subject may want to improve on the ability to suppress alpha band electrical activity located in the posterior of the cerebral cortex. A system of rewards and punishments may be used to encourage desirable patterns and discourage unwanted patterns.

The subject then has the choice in decision step to look at raw data only or data that has been processed in an assistive manner. Raw data in this case is defined as localized electrical activity that has not had any algorithms such as those mentioned in performed on the data.

If the subject chooses to observe raw data only then the subject may choose to interpret it then examine it using the final presentation method which would involve step or the subject could remain passive and just examine it without application specific interpretation by proceeding to step .

If the subject chooses to observe the localized electrical activity that has been computationally assisted via a previously described algorithm then the algorithm would provide the necessary evidence especially if there had been a research trial completed on the particular objective for correction or improvement. The subject would then examine the computationally assisted localized electrical activity using the final presentation method which would involve step .

At this point the subject would then attempt to enact a mental change to attempt to achieve the objective.

Step is a decision step asking whether the entertainment application involves autonomous algorithms to process the localized electrical activity.

If the application does not involve autonomous processing then the subject would then watch his or her own localized electrical activity utilizing the final presentation method in step .

If the application does involve autonomous processing then the subject would be able to utilize algorithms such as those previously described to recognize patterns automatically which can then in turn be utilized to manipulate a game character or visually entertaining display which ultimately is presented using the final presentation method to display a visual change in the character step . In this instance the character may be an image of a person or an object. There are a number of options as to which localized signals are harnessed to manipulate the character. The movement of the character on the screen could be linked to electrical activity with is non volitional in which case the movement of the figure would be under involuntary control. However if volitional signals from the motor cortex were localized and captured then it is possible to have the characters moving according to the volition of the operator.

It is possible to isolate localized electrical activity emanating from a subject and then to capture it and activate a change in the environment using an effector. Effectors can be mechanical as in the case of a robotic arm physical as when causing changes in temperature or chemical whereby a chemical changes are produced.

Step entails the use of algorithms to autonomously recognize certain patterns and capture them so as to activate an external effector to produce a tangible effect on the surrounding environment. Examples include industrial processes to control an external mechanical device such as an assembly arm or other industrial robots. The method of pattern recognition may involve one of the previously described algorithms or approaches specifically from but it also may require the development of new algorithms to account for the fine control that may be required of certain effectors. In order for the environmental manipulation to be planned and meaningful volitional signals emanating from the frontal lobe of the cerebral cortex and especially the areas of the brain involved in voluntary motor control will likely need to be isolated then captured and finally utilized to activate an effector in step .

In addition it is possible to add a transmitter which is in turn connected to a receiver and finally connected to a remote effector in order to produce an industrial change in the environment at a remote location.

An alternate embodiment of the invention is directed towards a method of performing near real time three dimensional display and analysis with multiple forms of near real time statistical analysis and quantification using state of the art components including a customized solution space based on the subject s own cerebral cortex isolated from his or her own MRI or other appropriate brain imaging methodology using accepted techniques currently in use an electrode digitizer a device that accurately measures the electrode positions on the subject s scalp in 3D space ultrahigh sampling EEG amplifiers recorders 20 KHz so as to sample the cortical activity with great rapidity to allow for generating as many pictures of the cortex as possible per second the most accurate inverse solution approximations which would allow for the display of voxels with the highest possible spatial resolution despite computational expense the fastest computers available on the market and large and or multiple high resolution screens. This embodiment would be especially useful for imaging changes occurring over extremely short time intervals and in which multiple forms of analysis are needed to clarify the cortical activity.

In one embodiment of the present invention data generated using an inverse solution is analyzed by a microcomputer which identifies specific danger signals. This microcomputer is in turn connected to an alarm such as a bell which alerts medical personnel to possible danger to the patient. This embodiment can be without the use of imaging or the display of localized electrical activity. This embodiment represents a portable version of the invention.

An alternate embodiment of the portable invention entails integration with telemedicine methods including transmitters and receivers so that the signals and data are communicated to a second location where clinicians can view and interpret the data for a patient that is remote to them. Ambulatory monitoring of persons that are conscious and can walk may be performed using miniature amplifiers.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed at a method of monitoring electrical activity in sleep and as an aid in the quantification and analysis of sleep stages and as an aid to the diagnosis of sleep disorders. In this embodiment it is possible to perform near real time three dimensional display and analysis of known clinically important waveforms and frequency bands including alpha beta delta and theta within sleep activity in separate windows on a screen or screens simultaneously By combining elements of the present invention with existing techniques involving physiological monitoring devices of parameters that are used in the field of sleep medicine such as oxygenation or heart rate it is possible to create an improved form of polysomnography.

The present invention should not be considered limited to the particular examples described above but rather should be understood to cover aspects of the invention as fairly set out in the attached claims. Various modifications equivalent processes as well as numerous structures to which the present invention may be applicable will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art to which the present invention is directed upon review of the specifications.

