---

title: Fabrication of miniature fiber-optic temperature sensors
abstract: A method of coupling a silica fiber and a sapphire fiber includes providing a silica fiber having a doped core and a cladding layer, with the doped core having a prescribed diameter, providing a sapphire fiber having a diameter less than the doped core, placing an end of the sapphire fiber in close proximity to an end of the silica fiber, applying a heat source to the end of silica fiber and introducing the end of sapphire fiber into the heated doped core of the silica fiber to produce a coupling between the silica and sapphire fibers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07762720&OS=07762720&RS=07762720
owner: Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties, Inc.
number: 07762720
owner_city: Blacksburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070808
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 836 127 filed on Aug. 8 2006. The full disclosure of this provisional application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DE FC26 99FT40685 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to temperature sensors. More specifically the present invention is further directed to the implementation of temperature sensors that that can be used in high temperature environments.

Temperature sensing is one of the key topics in fiber optic sensor research. Numerous schemes have been proposed since the early 1980s for a variety of applications from biological monitoring to industrial sensing. For high temperatures well above 1000 C. single crystal optical fibers have been widely adopted for sensor fabrication owing to their excellent mechanical and optical properties at these elevated temperatures. Most of the fiber optic high temperature sensors can be categorized into three main techniques thermal radiation fluorescence lifetime and optical interference.

The simplest form of radiation based sensors are fiber versions of optical pyrometers often referred to as lightpipe radiation thermometers LPRTs devices used in the semiconductor industry for wafer temperature monitoring during rapid thermal processing RTP by collecting radiation from the target surface and transmitting it to the detector. See for example M. R. Jones and D. G. Barker Use of optical fiber thermometers in high temperature environment 11IEEE international conference on advanced thermal processing of semiconductors 2003 pp. 89 100. Temperature can then be inferred using the standard two color approach.

Other than merely a light collecting and transmitting pipe another type of radiation based sensor generates its own radiation signal with a metal coated sapphire fiber tip which forms a blackbody cavity. See for example R. R. Dils High temperature optical fiber thermometer J. Appl. Phys. 54 1198 1201 1983 . Operation up to 2300 C. has been demonstrated using zirconia single crystal fiber. See for example L. Tong Y. Shen L. Ye and Z. Ding A zirconia single crystal fiber optic sensor for contact measurement of temperatures above 2000 C. Meas. Sci. Technol. 10 607 611 1999 .

In both types the radiation emitted by the fiber lightpipe itself adds to the target radiation and thus constitutes an error source leaving the measurement sensitive to environmental temperature changes around the lightpipe. Therefore in situ calibration is usually required and brings inconvenience to its field application. In fluorescence based sensors the fiber is doped and the dopant is excited by laser pulses to generate fluorescence whose decay rate is temperature dependent and used as the measurand. Operating temperatures of 1600 C. have been achieved by a Yb doped single crystal YAG optical fiber. See for example J. L. Kennedy and N. Djeu Operation of Yb YAG fiber optic temperature sensor up to 1600 C. Sensors Actuators A 100 187 191 2002 . The temperature dependence of the decay rate usually exhibits a vastly changing profile increasing slowly at low temperature and very quickly toward the high temperature end. That will leave the sensor with quite different sensitivities and performance at difference temperature ranges and therefore may limit its dynamic range.

As another widely employed technique fiber optic interferometric sensors are known for their large dynamic range high resolution and high accuracy. Various principles have been proposed based on both intrinsic and extrinsic Fabry Perot FP interfereometers. See for example A. Wang S. Gollapudi K. A. Murphey R. C. May and R. O. Claus Sapphire fiber based intrinsic Fabry Perot interferometer Opt. Lett. 17 1021 1223 1992 . However one major concern of these sensors in high temperature measurements is the large modal volume of single crystal sapphire fibers. The intermodal dispersion makes it difficult to generate good fringes which are sensitive to the quality and the parallelism of the interferometer surfaces.

To address that issue an extrinsic Fabry Perot interferometric EFPI sensor using a sapphire wafer as the interferometer has been developed. The high quality and parallelism of the wafer surfaces allow easy generation of good interference fringes even for highly multimode sapphire fiber. As the measurand the wafer s optical thickness is temperature dependent as both the refractive index and the physical thickness increase with temperature.

Even so the coupling of elements raises issues addressed above in that dispersion and proper alignment become greater concerns. There is also a need for simpler and smaller configurations and achieving compact and durable connections between the wafer and the fiber.

It is thus an object of the present invention to provide a coupling of elements that allows for proper dispersion and proper alignment. It is also an object to provide such a coupling that can be used in a temperature sensor. It is also an object to provide simpler and smaller configurations achieving compact and durable connections between the wafer and the fiber.

To achieve the above and other objects the present invention is directed to a method of coupling a silica fiber and a sapphire fiber that includes providing a silica fiber having a doped core and a cladding layer with the doped core having a prescribed diameter providing a sapphire fiber having a diameter less than the doped core placing an end of the sapphire fiber in close proximity to an end of the silica fiber applying a heat source to the end of silica fiber and introducing the end of the sapphire fiber into the heated doped core of the silica fiber to produce a coupling between the silica and sapphire fibers.

The step of providing the silica may also include providing another optical fiber and coupling a short length of the silica fiber to the other optical fiber. The step of applying a heat source to the end of the silica fiber may include applying a splicing arc to the end of the silica fiber. The coupling between the silica and sapphire fibers may provide an insertion loss for light passing through the coupling of less than 1 dB. The method may also produce the coupling without the use of an adhesive interlayer.

The present invention is also directed to a fiber optic coupling between a silica fiber and a sapphire fiber that includes a silica fiber having a doped core and a cladding layer with the doped core having a prescribed diameter and a sapphire fiber introduced into the doped core through heating of an end of the silica fiber. The diameter of the doped core may be at least 100 m and a diameter of the sapphire fiber is at least 75 m. The coupling may also include a short length of the silica fiber coupled to another optical fiber through an adhesive. The coupling between the silica and sapphire fibers provides an insertion loss for light passing through the coupling of less than 1 dB.

The present invention is also directed to a temperature sensor for use in high temperature environments that includes a silica fiber having a doped core and a cladding layer with the doped core having a prescribed diameter and being configured to be connected to a light source and a spectrometer a sapphire fiber having a first end introduced into the doped core through heating of an end of the silica fiber and a sapphire wafer coupled to a second end of the sapphire fiber through an adhesive.

The present invention is further directed to a method of forming a temperature sensor for use in high temperature environments that includes providing a silica fiber having a doped core and a cladding layer with the doped core having a prescribed diameter and being configured to be connected to a light source and a spectrometer through a second end heating a first end of the silica fiber introducing a first end of a sapphire fiber into the doped core of the first end of the silica fiber and coupling a sapphire wafer to a second end of the sapphire fiber through an adhesive.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention will be set forth in detail with reference to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements or operational steps throughout.

The present invention is directed to the design and detailed fabrication process of fiber optic temperature sensors. When properly fabricated the sensors have been demonstrated to be well suited for reliable temperature monitoring even in the harshest environments.

As illustrated in the sensing mechanism is based on a wafer whose surfaces create a Fabry Perot interferometer. A fiber can be used to deliver light to the wafer and receive the reflected signal from which the wafer s optical thickness OT product of physical thickness d and refractive index n can be obtained by white light interferometry. Since both d and n have thermal dependences OT can serve as an excellent indicator of environmental temperature. The sensor can be made of a variety of optical materials e.g. fused silica quartz other types of glass silicon polymer sapphire zirconia and many more.

The connections between the fiber and the wafer can be made through various configurations. illustrates one of these where both the wafer and the fiber are bonded to a supporting tube . That bonding can be achieved through a number of methods e.g. adhesive bonding direct bonding and fusion bonding.

The present invention is also directed to a coupling method between sapphire fiber and silica fiber. Sapphire fiber has excellent optical mechanical and thermal properties and therefore is used in many applications for light transmission. However sapphire fiber is expensive and hard to couple with conventional silica fibers. Many applications thus require that the sapphire fiber to be coupled with conventional silica fibers to not only extend the length of light transmission but also make the many silica fiber based optical devices available to the system. This invention provides a very simple way to join sapphire and silica fibers without the use of any adhesive interlayer. The coupling is strong with low insertion loss.

The coupling may be made through arc fusion splicing. shows a schematic of the process. The silica fiber has a doped core and an undoped fused silica cladding . The sapphire fiber has a diameter no larger than the core. The coupling is based on the fact that the doped core of the silica fiber softens at a much lower temperature than the undoped cladding. As shown in under properly controlled usually reduced arc duration and power the core will be softened while the cladding as well as the sapphire fiber will remain almost intact. Prior to the arc the sapphire fiber is brought to the close proximity of the silica fiber. It is then heated by the arc and expands protruding into the melted core of the silica fiber to make the connection as illustrated in . Multiple arcs may be necessary depending on the power and duration.

Signal processing is based on the fact that all terms in Eq. 1 except the cosine are low frequency components and therefore in Fourier transform the high frequency cosine term can be filtered out by a band pass filter giving

It is clear in that the wafer fringes are added on top of a large background raised by several sources. During the fabrication it is important to have sufficient fringe amplitude for a good signal to noise ratio.

The coupling of the silica and sapphire fibers was made through arc fusion splicing. That is different from previously reported splices using aluminosilicate glass as interlayer such as reported in A. Wang S. Gollapudi R. G. May K. A. Murphey and R. O. Claus Advances in sapphire fiber based intrinsic interferometric sensors Opt. Lett. 17 1544 1546 1992 and it is adhesive free based on the fact that the 100 m Ge doped core of the silica fiber softens at a much lower temperature than the undoped cladding. Under properly reduced arc duration and power the core will be softened while the cladding as well as the sapphire fiber will remain almost intact as discussed above.

The sensor s temperature response was tested in a furnace DelTech Inc. from 230 C. to 1600 C. A B type thermocouple is used for temperature reference. plots the change of optical thickness open circles with respect to temperature measured by the S type thermocouple. The data is fitted by a parabola as the following 

For the temperature dependence of the refractive index of the ordinary ray in sapphire n T the authors of J. Tapping and M. L. Reilly Index of refraction of sapphire between 24 and 1060 C. for wavelengths of 633 and 799 nm J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 3 610 616 1986 have measured this value from 24 C. to 1060 C. for wavelengths of 633 nm and 799 nm as given by 1.76565 1.258 104.06 10 4 and 1.75991 1.229 103.10 10 5 where T is temperature in degree Celsius. By linear extrapolation from these two equations a good estimation of n T for 850 nm can be obtained as the following 1.75815 1.220 102.81 10 6 

Based on Eqs. 3 and 6 a theoretical prediction of the optical thickness is given as the dotted line in . The calculation shows a reasonable match to the experimental data.

Eq. 2 indicates that the optical thickness increases with temperature in the form of a convex function. Therefore the sensitivity of the sensor defined as the slope of the temperature response curve increases with temperature as well. From Eq. 2 the sensitivity S can be obtained as 

Therefore S increases with temperature from 1.42 nm C. at 24 C. to 2.59 nm C. at 1600 C. Unlike the fluorescence type sensor whose sensitivities can vary by orders of magnitude over a large temperature range the sensitivities of this sensor remain at a similar level. Hence one can expect similar performance throughout the entire temperature range.

The resolution of the sensor is the smallest temperature change the sensor could resolve. Even under the same temperature the sensor output optical thickness would statistically fluctuate due to system noises. A temperature change is discernible only when it is larger than this fluctuation to determine which the sensor s optical thickness was recorded for 15 minutes at room temperature 24 C. . shows the result and the statistical distribution. It is then determined that the standard deviation of these data is about 0.3 nm. Therefore the resolution of the sensor at room temperature is 

Other configurations eliminate the supporting tube and bond the wafer directly on the fiber making possible ultra miniature sensors having a size of only a few hundred microns. illustrates some such structures with and illustrating side views and and illustrating plan views of the embodiments. Each has a partially recessed fiber end face with the recessed part for sensing and the non recessed port for supporting and bonding. and illustrate a fiber having a centered cylindrical recess and illustrate the recess being a notch in the fiber end and having two portions supporting the wafer and and illustrate a similar notch that is non symmetric.

It is also possible to have the recess in the wafer instead of the fiber as illustrated in . illustrates a cross section of such an embodiment illustrates a groove etched on the wafer and illustrates a pit etched on the wafer.

With respect to fabrication many of the discussed embodiments use sapphire fibers and wafers but the fabrication processes can be used with other materials with little or no modification. For effective light transmission the sapphire fiber end face needs to be well polished. If such a high quality surface is parallel to the wafer it can form a Fabry Perot interferometer with the first surface of the wafer. This second interferometer in addition to the one formed by the wafer will distort sensor signals and cause errors.

To avoid such errors the fiber needs to be angle polished to suppress this extra interface as illustrated in . For 75 m thick sapphire fiber experiments show that an angle of 1 is adequate to eliminate the distortion. Larger angles will reduce the coupling efficiency of reflected light and the signal amplitude. The angle requires that the fiber and the tube cannot be bonded and polished together before putting the wafer on. Otherwise all surfaces would be parallel. Hence the tube should be bonded first to the wafer and them to the fiber in most embodiments.

In the application of adhesives most adhesives are liquid or liquid containing. The liquid may cause contamination if not handled properly. One example involves the use of a high temperature adhesive for a sapphire fiber sensor that is paste like with a prescribed water content. Water can seep in between the wafer and the tube. Even though both are well polished there may be a micro sized or smaller gap therebetween. If too much adhesive was applied at the same time water would carry contaminants all the way to the sensing area at the center and could flow into the bore as illustrated in . Even after the water is dried out the contaminants will remain on the optical surfaces. This may also occur when applying adhesive to bond the fiber and the tube.

To avoid contamination the water content can be reduced by avoiding the use of excessive adhesive. Thus only a small amount need be applied at a time over multiple applications allowing time for the water to evaporate and the adhesive to dry before each application. Given the millimeter scale of the tube and the wafer millimeter sized adhesive is considered to be a large amount. A regular bare silica fiber may be used to pick up and apply such a small amount of adhesive. Also a microscope may be used for precise operation which can be used manually or with translation stages. Another solution is to enlarge the bore to create more space around the sensing area to accommodate excess water as shown in . In the two illustrated embodiments the fiber makes contact with the wafer through a tube . provides for the bore to be enlarged in a notched fashion and provides for the bore to be enlarged in a conical fashion.

In temperature tests the furnace was run from 230 C. to 1600 C. at 3 C. min three times. The change in the optical thickness with respect to temperature by the B type thermocouple is plotted in demonstrating the full scale accuracy of 0.2 . The temperature resolution is 0.4 C.

Besides its excellent performance the present invention can also be easily calibrated and is suitable for batch fabrication. All wafers regardless of their thicknesses will have the same normalized temperature response as long as their materials are the same. Thus one curve may be used for all similar sensors and there is no need to calibrate each individual sensor. Only an initial thickness is necessary for each sensor its calibration curve can be readily obtained as the product of this initial thickness and the universal normalization curve.

Thus a sapphire fiber based extrinsic Fabry Perot interferometric sensor has been demonstrated for high temperature measurement. The adhesive free coupling of the silica and sapphire fibers is made possible through fusion splicing by the low melting point of the doped silica fiber core and a loss as low as 0.8 dB has been measured. Also studied is the dependence of the sensor signal on the alignment angle showing that a relatively large angle range can be tolerated for high fringe intensity. The prototype sensor was tested from 230 C. to about 1600 C. with a resolution of 0.4 C. and the sensor response is in good agreement with the theoretical prediction.

Additionally while the present invention has been discussed with respect to sapphire fibers and wafers the present invention is not so limited. For example the silica sapphire fiber coupling and sensor head may be made from other types of single crystal fibers and wafers. Possible examples include lithium niobate silver bromide barium metaborate etc. The coupling may be accomplished as long as the inserted fiber has a smaller diameter that the core of the fiber into which it is inserted.

While a preferred embodiment has been set forth in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that other embodiments can be realized within the scope of the invention. For example numerical values are illustrative rather than limiting as is the order in which steps are carried out. Therefore the present invention should be construed as limited only by the appended claims.

