---

title: Diverless connector for bend restrictors and/or bend stiffeners
abstract: A subsea connector is disclosed. The connector includes a guide funnel assembly that may be coupled to a subsea structure. The guide funnel assembly may receive a shaft. The shaft may be coupled to a bend restrictor/limiter or a bend stiffener. The shaft may be received inside the guide funnel assembly. The shaft may include a recess. A latch assembly may be coupled to the guide funnel assembly. The latch assembly may include one or more dogs and a latch operating device. The dogs may be radially moveable in and out of the interior of the guide funnel assembly. The dogs may be inserted into the recess of the shaft to inhibit longitudinal axial movement between the shaft and the guide funnel assembly. The latch operating device may control the in and out radial movement of the dogs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07967070&OS=07967070&RS=07967070
owner: Deep Sea Technologies, Inc.
number: 07967070
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070712
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent No. 60 807 090 entitled DIVERLESS CONNECTOR FOR BEND RESTRICTORS BEND LIMITERS to Reddy filed on Jul. 12 2006.

The present invention relates to subsea connectors and devices for limiting the bend of flexible pipes or umbilicals used with subsea connections. More particularly the invention relates to subsea bend restrictors limiters and or bend stiffeners that are installable using remotely operated vehicles ROVs .

Bend restrictors or bend limiters and or bend stiffeners are used to inhibit overbending of flexible pipes or cable flowline and or umbilical risers where the risers attach to fixed or floating structures such as but not limited to subsea riser bases wellhead connections pipeline end manifolds PLEMs and fixed or floating offshore platforms. The flexible pipes flowlines and or umbilicals may be used for example to transport hydrocarbons or other fluids to and from the surface. As an example a bend restrictor limiter may be used to inhibit overbending of an umbilical riser exiting an I or J tube on an offshore platform.

A bend restrictor limiter may fit snugly over the riser and be tapered on the outside with a passage on the inside to allow the riser to pass through the bend restrictor limiter. One end of the bend restrictor limiter may be coupled to e.g. secured or attached to the riser base e.g. the I or J tube while the other end is freely moving. This structure allows the riser to move axially within the bend restrictor limiter while lateral movement of the riser is inhibited by engaging the inside walls of the bend restrictor limiter.

The riser may move laterally due to forces such as current or wave action. The stiffness provided by the bend restrictor limiter limits the curvature of the riser and ensures that the curvature stays within a maximum curvature allowed by the design of the riser. This curvature limitation protects the riser from overbending and or kinking.

In most subsea operations the bend restrictor limiter is installed with the riser at the time of offshore installation. The bend restrictor limiter may be placed below the riser pullhead and inhibited from sliding down by for example a temporary hold back clamp installed on the riser. One end of the bend restrictor limiter typically terminates in a flange that matches the flange on the structure e.g. the flange on the end of the I or J tube .

During the riser pull in and hang off operations a diver typically connects the flange on the bend restrictor limiter to the flange on the structure. The diver may also remove the holdback clamp after connecting the flanges.

Using the diver to connect the bend restrictor limiter has certain risks and dangers associated with people operating heavy machinery in a subsea environment. In addition there are certain logistical commercial and operational risks associated with coordinating installation activity with diving activity. Diving activity and support associated with the diving activity may also be expensive and increase the costs of installation of the bend restrictor limiter. Diver installation also may be slow and tedious which may also increase costs and delay times for structure operation due to waiting for the diving operation to be completed.

Thus there is a need for a subsea connector for bend restrictors limiters that is installable without the need for using human divers. Specifically a subsea connector for bend restrictors limiters that is installable using automated systems such as but not limited to a remotely operated vehicle ROV may be advantageous. Having an ROV installable connector for bend restrictors limiters would eliminate the need for diving operations and the associated risks and dangers to people e.g. divers . The ROV installable connector for bend restrictors limiters may also reduce logistical commercial and operational risks by eliminating the need to coordinate installation activity with diving activity. The ROV installable connector for bend restrictors limiters may also reduce installation costs associated with diving activity and diving activity support. The ROV installable connector for bend restrictors limiters may also improve the speed of operations and reduce costs by decreasing installation and connection time for the bend restrictor limiter.

In certain embodiments a subsea connector includes a guide funnel assembly. The assembly may be coupled to a subsea structure. The assembly may receive a shaft. The shaft may be coupled to a bend restrictor limiter. The shaft may be received inside the guide funnel assembly. The shaft may include a recess. A latch assembly may be coupled to the guide funnel assembly. The latch assembly may include one or more dogs and a latch operating device. The dogs may be radially moveable in and out of the interior of the guide funnel assembly. In certain embodiments the dogs are inserted into the recess of the shaft to inhibit longitudinal axial movement between the shaft and the guide funnel assembly. The latch operating device may control the in and out radial movement of the dogs.

In certain embodiments the connector is installed using a remotely operated vehicle ROV . The latch operating device may be manipulated using the ROV. In some embodiments the latch assembly is positioned to allow the dogs to move radially in and out of the interior of the guide funnel assembly with an inward bias. In some embodiments the latch assembly is positioned to allow the shaft to be inserted into the guide funnel assembly. In some embodiments the latch assembly includes a locking mechanism to inhibit the dogs from moving radially outward when the dogs are inserted into the recess of the shaft. In some embodiments the latch assembly includes an unlocking mechanism that engages the dogs to move the dogs radially outward when the unlocking mechanism is activated.

In certain embodiments the latch assembly includes one or more dogs and a cam plate. The dogs may be radially moveable in and out of the interior of the guide funnel assembly. The cam plate may include one or more cam surfaces. Movement of the cam plate may control the in and out radial movement of the dogs.

In some embodiments at least one of the cam surfaces defines at least one radial position of the dogs. In some embodiments the cam plate is moved using the ROV. In some embodiments the cam plate includes at least one cam surface that allows the dogs to move radially in and out of the interior of the guide funnel assembly with an inward bias. In some embodiments the cam plate includes at least one cam surface that allows the shaft to be inserted into the guide funnel assembly. In some embodiments the cam plate includes at least one cam surface that inhibits the dogs from moving radially outward when the dogs are inserted into the recess of the shaft. In some embodiments the cam plate includes at least one cam surface that moves the dogs radially outward when the cam plate is moved to engage such cam surface.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. The drawings may not be to scale. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but to the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

In the context of this patent the term coupled means either a direct connection or an indirect connection e.g. one or more intervening connections between one or more objects or components. The phrase directly connected means a direct connection between objects or components such that the objects or components are connected directly to each other so that the objects or components operate in a point of use manner.

In the context of this patent the terms latching dog and dog refer to any mechanical device for holding gripping and or fastening that comprises a spike bar hook deadbolt pin or the like. The term bend restrictor limiter refers to both a bend restrictor limiter and a bend stiffener. Thus a connector for a bend restrictor limiter is also a connector for a bend stiffener and vice versa.

In certain embodiments a latch assembly is coupled to assembly . In certain embodiments the latch assembly includes base plate cam plate and or other components described herein that operate to latch assembly to shaft . Base plate may be substantially flat or be of another suitable shape. In certain embodiments base plate is welded to assembly . Spring retainers may be coupled to base plate . Spring retainers may for example be bolted or otherwise attached to base plate .

Assembly may include one or more slots in the side of the assembly to allow latching dogs to slide in and out through the walls of the assembly. The slots may be machined or otherwise formed in the side of assembly . In certain embodiments assembly includes two slots on opposite sides of the assembly.

Dogs may be guided by guides . Guides may be shoulder bolts and or other suitable devices for guiding dogs . Shoulder bolts may be screwed into dogs to secure the bolts to the dogs. Examples of other suitable devices for guides that may be used in combination with shoulder bolts or instead of shoulder bolts include but are not limited to screws slots pins springs and grooves.

Guides may pass through spring retainers . Springs may be installed over guides so that the springs lay between spring retainers and dogs . Springs may provide a biasing force between spring retainers and dogs that urges the dogs radially inwards towards walls of assembly . Springs are compressed as dogs slide out of the slots in the side of assembly . In some embodiments other biasing devices may be used in combination with springs or instead of the springs.

In certain embodiments cam plate slidably couples to base plate . Cam plate may mate to the shape and or surface of base plate so that the cam plate and the base plate are slidably engaged. Cam plate may be used to control movement of dogs . In some embodiments multiple cam plates and or other suitable structures are used to control the movement of dogs. Other suitable structures include but are not limited to hydraulic pistons gears and cranks. Additionally cam plate and or other suitable structures for moving dogs may be coupled to base plate and or assembly in ways other than shown in that may facilitate operation of the dogs.

Cam plate controls the radial movement of dogs on assembly so that the cam plate controls the sliding of the dogs in and out of the slots on the sides of the assembly. In certain embodiments cam plate includes grooves or slots shaped into the legs of the cam plate. Slots may slidably couple to guides e.g. shoulder bolts or other suitable structures attached to base plate . Guides may also slidably couple dogs to base plate . Dogs may have an interior slot through which legs of cam plate are received. Guides may guide the radial inward and outward movement of dogs while allowing and guiding radial movement of cam plate towards and away from assembly .

In certain embodiments cam plate includes three cam surfaces on the legs of the cam plate. In some embodiments other numbers of cam surfaces are included on the surfaces of the cam plate and or the legs of the cam plate. The cam surfaces may engage the interior of the slots on dogs to control the radial position of the dogs. In certain embodiments the three cam surfaces are used to position dogs in three different positions. The three positions the install position depicted in the lock position depicted in and the remove position depicted in .

In certain embodiments the legs of cam plate have first cam surfaces on outer sides of the legs and at or near the ends of the legs that are used to move dogs radially outwards for the remove position shown in . Adjacent second cam surfaces on the outer sides of the legs of cam plate are used for the install position depicted in . The second cam surfaces in the install position allow dogs to move radially inward to follow the outer surface of shaft as the shaft moves along the inside of assembly . Dogs may lock into a desired position on shaft when the dogs engage one or more grooves on the shaft. Assembly is secured to shaft when dogs lock into the desired position.

Third cam surfaces are located on the opposite side of the first cam surfaces on the legs of cam plate . The third cam surfaces are disposed on the inward sides of the legs the sides closest to assembly . The third cam surfaces force dogs inwards to a locked position when cam plate is moved radially towards assembly e.g. towards the lock position depicted in .

Inward movement of cam plate may be limited or stopped when an inner surface of the cam plate presses against assembly e.g. when cam plate reaches the lock position depicted in . Outward movement of cam plate may be limited or stopped by the end of the slots or grooves in the legs of the cam plate so that the cam plate cannot be pulled off assembly e.g. when cam plate reaches the remove position depicted in .

In some embodiments connector and its associated components such as but not limited to cam plate assembly and shaft include visual markings colors and or other visual enhancements as desired so that an operator of an ROV remotely operated vehicle may easily view the position and or operation of the connector including operation of the cam plate. In some embodiments cam plate includes a handle latch or other grasping device that is easily engaged by the ROV so that the ROV may easily move and or operate the cam plate which controls operation of dogs . In some embodiments cam plate is coupled to a screw drive torque device e.g. torque bucket or other mechanical device that facilitates the movement and or operation of the cam plate and dogs . Such devices may be operated by the ROV to move and or operate cam plate .

In certain embodiments shaft includes recess depicted in . Recess may include grooves holes slots notches or other suitable recesses on the outer surface of the shaft so that dogs can extend into the recess when assembly is properly aligned with the shaft. When dogs are extended into recess shaft is locked into position within assembly .

After dogs snap into recess on shaft cam plate may be moved to the lock position. depict an embodiment of connector in the lock position. In cam plate has been moved inward towards shaft along guides so that dogs are locked into place. In the lock position dogs are inhibited from retracting out of the recess on shaft by the third cam surfaces on the legs of cam plate . In the lock position longitudinal axial movement between shaft and assembly is inhibited e.g. the shaft and the assembly as depicted in are inhibited from moving up and down relative to each other .

To unlock and remove shaft from assembly cam plate is moved to the remove position. depicts an embodiment of connector in the remove position. Cam plate is moved e.g. pulled to the position shown in by for example an arm of the ROV. In this position springs are compressed and dogs are moved out of the recess on shaft . Moving dogs out of the recess allows assembly and shaft to be pulled apart.

In certain embodiments the weight of the bend restrictor limiter shaft and any associated couplings is taken up by dogs . When lateral loads act on the riser bending loads are transmitted through shaft into assembly due to the close tolerance between the shaft and the assembly. Contact points between shaft and assembly may be located on either side of the location of dogs .

In some alternative embodiments other mechanisms than those described above are used for securing e.g. latching shaft inside assembly . In one embodiment a hinged circular ring with dogs coupled on the inside of the ring replaces cam plate . An open end of the ring may be coupled together by a screw drive. The screw drive may be operated e.g. actuated by the ROV manipulator or a torque tool to drive the dogs.

In some embodiments hard rubber dogs may be used instead of and or in combination with metal e.g. steel dogs in the above described latching assemblies or in other similar operating assemblies. The hard rubber dogs may provide vibration dampening for connector .

In some embodiments a circular or ring shaped cam plate with interior cam surfaces that act similarly to the cam surfaces described above may be used in the latch assembly. The interior cam surfaces may act to drive the dogs through one or all of the positions described above e.g. the install lock and or remove positions . Rotation of such a cam plate may move the dogs through the various positions.

In some embodiments a cam plate may be shaped as a ring or otherwise shaped so that when the cam plate is moved up and down parallel to the longitudinal axis of assembly the cam plate operates to latch and unlock the dogs as described above.

In some embodiments a clamp a three part clamp a plate a sliding lock or any other suitable locking device may be used instead of and or in combination with dogs in the latch assembly.

While cam surfaces have been described herein as devices for operating dogs . It is to be understood that other devices such as but not limited to worm gears drive nuts torque drives handles and or other mechanical drives that can be operated by the ROV may be used. Additionally while three positions are shown herein install lock and remove not all these positions are necessary in all embodiments described herein and or other positions may be designed into the operation of connector and used as desired.

It is to be understood the installation of connector is not limited to particular methods e.g. installation without divers or installation by the ROV described above which may of course vary. Other methods and or equipment known in the art or developed for use in the art may be used to install and operate connector and the latch assembly without divers.

It is to be understood the invention is not limited to particular systems described which may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in this specification the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a spring includes a combination of two or more springs.

Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. Accordingly this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the general manner of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood that the forms of the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as the presently preferred embodiments. Elements and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein parts and processes may be reversed and certain features of the invention may be utilized independently all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description of the invention. Changes may be made in the elements described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the following claims.

