---

title: Method and system for monitoring and analyzing of IP networks elements
abstract: Exemplary embodiments include methods and systems for monitoring, analyzing, and troubleshooting of control plane dynamics of a network including collecting state data from the one or more routers of one or more protocols at discrete time intervals, the state data being associated with one or more routers of a network, analyzing corresponding state data collected at two or more discrete time intervals, and outputting a result of the analysis of the state data collected from the one or more routers of the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07975045&OS=07975045&RS=07975045
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 07975045
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071226
---
Monitoring and or troubleshooting network elements are a growing concern for Internet Service Providers ISPs as the Internet and use of the Internet continues to grow. Routing of data may be controlled by routing protocols. Open Shortest Path First OSPF is a hierarchical interior gateway protocol IOP for routing in Internet Protocol using a link state in the individual areas that make up the hierarchy. Label Distribution Protocol LDP is a protocol in which two label switch routers LSR exchange label mapping information e.g. traffic information for multiprotocol label switching MPLS network . Protocol Independent Multicast PIM is a family of multicast routing protocols that can provide one to many distribution of data over the Internet. Internal Border Independent Protocol iBGP is the core routing protocol of the Internet and works by maintaining a table of IP networks or prefixes which designate network reachability among autonomous network systems. Reducing downtime or avoiding problems associated with routing and or network elements are an increasing concern to the Internet Service Providers ISPs . Conventional troubleshooting of network elements typically requires a user to manually access each network element to collect information associated with the network element thus this process may be tedious and time consuming. Also conventional troubleshooting of network elements may require a manual analysis of the collected information in order to identify one or more problems associated with the network elements. Another conventional troubleshooting of network elements may rely on the network elements to alert a network manager of one or more problems. Often times the network manager may miss an alert.

These and other embodiments and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the various exemplary embodiments.

A system and method in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may include collecting backbone router data and or other network element data storing the data and analyzing the data. For example the backbone routers may be routers located in the backbone area of the network while other areas of the network are connected to it. The backbone routers may perform inter area routing of the network element data. The data may be automatically displayed to a user via a user interface. Also the data may be displayed to a user via the user interface in response to commands received via the user interface. The displayed data may assist the user in real time troubleshooting and or post event forensic analysis. Moreover reports may be generated for various reasons to inform a user of conditions in one or more network elements. Furthermore an alert may be generated to provide warning of abnormal activity and or instability in the one or more network elements.

The description below describes servers computers terminals client devices and other computing devices that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly depicted others of which are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to executable software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices. It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

As illustrated in system may include one or more user devices which may interact with one or more network elements within a network via a monitoring module and or an internal data network . A user may be associated with but is not limited to service providers enterprises educational institutions government agencies and any individual group and or organization running maintaining and or monitoring a network. Users within an organization may include but are not limited to network architects network managers engineers planners Network Operations Center NOC personnel marketing sales engineering operations personnel and customer support organizations.

The one or more user devices may be a computer a personal computer a laptop a cellular communication device a global positioning system UPS a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system a network appliance an Internet browser a paging an alert device a television an interactive television a receiver a tuner a high definition HD television a HD receiver a video on demand VOD system and or other any other device that may allow a user to communicate with the monitoring module via one or more networks not shown as known in the art.

A user associated with the one or more user devices may interactively browse and or monitor the one or more network elements to display various information associated with one or more network elements within the network via the one or more user devices . The user may monitor one or more interfaces associated with the one or more network elements . Also the user may monitor a correlation between various parameters to highlight the interactions that may occur between the one or more network elements within the network e.g. an Internet Protocol IP network etc. For example the user may monitor routing protocols interactions between the network elements and internal Border Gateway Protocol iBGP Label Distribution Protocol LDP Protocol Independent Multicast PIM and Open Shortest Path First OSPF . Also the user may monitor interior routing dynamics e.g. views of individual sub autonomous systems and or individual network element within the network . Further the user may monitor any hidden routing dynamics complex detailed routing protocols and or low level routing protocols associated with the one or more network elements .

A monitoring module may be one or more servers. The monitoring module may include a UNIX based servers Windows 2000 Server Microsoft IIS server Apache HTTP server API server Java sever Java Servlet API server ASP server PHP server HIP server Mac OS X server Oracle server IP server and or other independent server to monitor one or more network elements .

The internal data network may be coupled to the network via a management Ethernet port not shown . The internal data network and or the network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example the internal data network and or the network may include without limitation Internet network satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku and or Band Ka wireless LAN Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Personal Communication Service PCS Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data satellite network WEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g and or any other wireless network for transmitting a signal. In addition the internal data network and or the network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 wide area network WAN local area network LAN global network such as the Internet. Also the internal data network and or the network may enable an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network an Intranet or the like or any combination thereof. The internal data network and or the network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other.

Network may include one or more network elements . The one or more network elements may be a router switches relays circuit boards and or other telecommunication equipment that may provide support or services to a user.

In addition the presentation module may include an Application Programming Interface API to interact with the one or more user devices . In response to receiving a request from a user via the one or more user devices the presentation module may send requests or control signals etc. to the collector module the repository module and the analytical module . In response to a request the analytical module may a receive data from repository module and or collector module b analyze the data and c provide data and or analysis result to the presentation module . The presentation module may provide the data and or analysis results to one or more user devices for display. As a result system may allow a user to monitor the network in real time and or near real time.

Moreover the presentation module may include a report generator module not shown for generating reports. A report may be automatically generated in the event of a catastrophic network overload network outage router failure network instability and or a scheduled event. For example a user may schedule the monitoring system to generate a report of the one or more network elements during a network maintenance and or a network upgrade. Also a report may be generated periodically e.g. hourly daily weekly monthly yearly etc and may include date time various parameters and or analysis in accordance to a user s request. Further a report may be generated automatically when a user is logged into system in order to update the user of operation and or instability within the network since the last time the user was logged into system . For example an outage in the one or more network elements in the network may occur during the previous day a report may be generated automatically and or upon a request by a user which may include date time data and or analysis associated with the outage in the one or more network elements in the network . Thus a user may be informed of concerns problems and or repairs that may be needed for the one or more network elements in the network .

Furthermore the presentation module may include an alert dispatcher module not shown for alerting one or more users in response to user specified conditions. For example a user may define a set of rules and or conditions upon the occurrence of such rules and or conditions a report may be generated to alert the one or more users. Such a report may include date time one or more set of rules and or conditions defined by a user an analysis of data collected from the one or more network elements in the network and or status of various network elements . A user may be alerted in cases of instability in the operation of a network failure of network element network outage achieving a predetermined threshold or value one or more threshold crossing events data corruption error in transferring data and or other parameters requested by the user. For example a user may monitor a variety of protocols which may include but not limited to internal Border Gateway Protocol iBGP Label Distribution Protocol LDP Protocol Independent Multicast PIM and Open Shortest Path First OSPF and or other protocols associated with the one or more network elements in the network . Also a user may monitor various interfaces which may include but not limited to outbound interfaces local interfaces logical interfaces inbound interfaces service interfaces client interfaces and or other interfaces associated with the one or more network elements in the network . The dispatched alert can take various forms including but not limited to email telephone call paging alert.

The collector module may interact with the one or more network elements in the network . Through these interactions the dynamics of the one or more interfaces associated with the one or more network elements may be captured. For example the collector module may sequentially and or simultaneously collect data from the one or more network elements . The collector module may use one or more methods to access the one or more network elements via the internal data network . For example the collector modules may access the one or more network elements via telecommunication network TELNET command line interface CLI secure socket header SSH simple network management protocol SNMP File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure Shell SSH and or other methods access and or collecting data from the one or more network elements . The collector module may provide the data from each of the one or more network elements to the repository module . This data may include but is not limited to an up down state associated with the one or more network elements protocols interfaces routing table size route updates and event logs. The collector module may preprocess the data collected from the one or more network elements before transferring the data to the repository module .

The repository module may store and manage data from the collector module . The repository module may provide an interface e.g. a uniform interface for other modules within the system and may write read and search data in one or more repositories or databases. The repository module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to concurrent access backup and archive functions. Also due to limited amount of storing space the repository module may compress store transfer and or discard the data stored within after a period of time e.g. a month. The repository module may provide data to the analytical module .

The analytical module may retrieve data from the repository module and analyze such data. The analytical module may further include a plurality of sub analytical modules to perform various types of data analysis. The analytical module may perform various analyses such as but not limited to time series analysis forensic analysis and or pattern matching analysis. For example using the one or more user devices a user may select various types of data analyses to be performed. A user may select a time series data analysis where data collected at an earlier time may be compared with the current data Also a user may select forensic data analysis where a user may select to analyze the data collected in the past. Further a user may select pattern matching analysis where patterns associated with the data collected in the past may be matched with the current data. The analytic module may summarize and aggregate data retrieved from the repository module to provide a complete report of the routing dynamics protocol and or one or more interfaces from the one or more interfaces associated with the one or more network elements .

Referring to a detailed schematic of a system that may provide monitoring analyzing and troubleshooting of one or more network elements in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is illustrated. is a more detailed view of monitoring module compared to . As shown the presentation module may include a web interface a web server and a database .

The web interface may include software code for interfacing with one or more user devices . For example the software code may be source code written in HTML HyperText Markup Language and or PHP Hypertext Preprocessor . The software code may drive the web server to provide and receive information to and from the user via one or more user devices . The web interface may access data such as system configuration and user authentication data from the database via the web server . The web interface may access routing data from the repository module via the web server . The web interface may also be part of the analytical module and perform analysis of the data in the repository module . The web server may be a PHP enabled Apache server. The web server may interact with one or more user devices via one or more networks as known in the art.

The repository module may route the data files between the gateway interface of the collector module and the web server of the presentation module . Software code may be associated with the gateway interface which may include but not limited to Perl and Expect scripts for retrieving data and processing data. The software code associated with the gateway interface may access the one or more network elements via the internal data network to retrieve one or more interfaces protocols data and may store the data as interfaces protocols data files which are provided to the repository module . Also the software code associated with the gateway interface may be configured to filter format and aggregate the data prior to storing the interface protocol data files. For example using Expect scripts the gateway interface can retrieve interface protocol data through interactive applications such as telecommunication network TELNET command line interface CLI secure socket header SSH simple network management protocol SNMP File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure Shell SSH etc. A scheduling service may trigger the gateway interface to obtain interface protocol data from the one or more network elements e.g. routers at specific times e.g. hourly or daily. The scheduling service and or the gateway interface may form the collector module .

At block a collector module may collect first data associated with one or more network elements . The collector module may access the one or more network elements by transmitting one or more access request signals over an internal data network . The collector module may use various methods to access the one or more network elements . For example various access methods may include telecommunication network TELNET command line interface CLI secure socket header SNMP simple network management protocol SNMP File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure Shell SSH etc. The collector module may collect data associated with one or more protocols associated with the one or more network elements . For example the one or more protocols may include but are not limited to internal Border Gateway Protocol iBGP Label Distribution Protocol LDP Protocol Independent Multicast PIM and Open Shortest Path First OSPF . Also the collector module may collect data associated with one or more interfaces associated with the one or more network elements . For example the one or more interface may be a connection between a service provider and one or more clients. Thereafter the collector module may transfer the collected data associated with the one or more network elements to a repository module . The repository module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to concurrent access backup and archive functions. After the collector module may collect data associated with one or more network elements the method may proceed to block .

At block the collector module may collect second data from the one or more network elements at a predetermined time interval e.g. every second every minute every hour etc. The first and or second data collected from the one or more network elements by the collector module may be an up state or a down state associated with the one or more network elements . For example the up state may represent the one or more network elements are functioning properly wherein one or more protocols and or one or more interfaces associated with the one or more network elements are functioning properly. The down state may represent a failure of the one or more network elements wherein the one or more protocols and or the one or more interfaces associated with the one or more network elements are not functioning properly. The second data collected at the predetermined interval by the collector module may transfer to a repository module to be processed include filtering formatting and or aggregating. After the collector module may collect second data associated with one or more network elements at the predetermined interval the method may proceed to block .

At block an analytical module may analyze the data collected by the collector module . The analytical module may retrieve first and or second data from the repository module . For example the analytical module may retrieve the first data and the second data collected by the collector module from the repository module at two disparate time intervals. The analytical module may compare and or contrast the first data and the second data. For example a predetermined number of neighboring open shortest path first OSPF may be associated with the one or more network elements . Also a transmission control protocol TCP may run between each predetermined number of neighboring open shortest path first OSPF . The analytical module may detect a down state associated with the one or more of the predetermined number of neighboring open shortest path first OSPF from about real time e.g. as rapidly as required actual time the second data collected by the collector module . Thereafter the analytical module may compare and or contrast about real time e.g. as rapidly as required actual time the second data with the first data collected by the collector module . For example the analytical module may determine that the one or more neighboring open shortest path first OSPF in the down state in the second data may not be in the down state in the first data. Therefore the analytical module may send an alert report to the one or more user devices via a presentation module . Also the analytical module may compare and or contrast about real time e.g. as rapidly as required actual time the first and or the second data with a predetermined threshold value. For example a user may set the predetermine threshold value based at least in part on network specifications and or network configurations. The analytical module may determine that one or more of the predetermined number of neighboring open shortest path first OSPF may not match the predetermined threshold value. Therefore the analytical module may send alert report to the one or more user devices via the presentation module . After the analytical module may analyze the data collected by the collector module the method may proceed to block .

At block the analysis results are provided to the user. For example web server provides the analysis results to the one or more user devices . Also the web server may provide the analysis results to the one or more user devices associated with the user who requested the analysis. The web server may cause one or more user devices to display the results of the analysis to the user.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

