---

title: Associating metadata with media objects using time
abstract: In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, a method for associating metadata with a media object is provided. The method provides the ability to tag, or bookmark, a point in time for future use. The method includes receiving the metadata, an associated time condition, and an associated user identification. The method further includes storing at least the time condition. The at least stored time condition is used, at least in part, for associating the metadata with the media object. The media object is then provided to the user. In some embodiments the media object is not available for association with the metadata at the time the metadata is received. In other embodiments, the media object is provided by an external application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465892&OS=09465892&RS=09465892
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09465892
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071203
---
Adding metadata such as tags to digital media is an effective mechanism for describing searching and sorting existing digital media objects. Media may be images audio or video files for example. Although adding metadata such as tags to a media objects is a useful method for facilitating categorizing files traditionally the media object must always be already available in order to associate a tag with it.

Because generally the media object would have to be available before metadata could be added the user would have to spend time to access the appropriate media object and then add a tag. In other words a user needs to encounter the media object before having the ability to add a tag. However there is no ability to tag media which will be available in the future.

Therefore a method and system for associating metadata by indicating a time with a media object that is not yet available is desired.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention a method for associating metadata with a media object is provided. The method provides the ability to tag or bookmark a point in time for future use. The method includes receiving the metadata an associated time condition and an associated user identification. The method further includes storing at least the time condition. The at least stored time condition is used at least in part for associating the metadata with the media object. The media object is then provided to the user.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention a computer readable medium comprising instructions for a processor for associating metadata with a media object is provided. The instructions include receiving the metadata an associated time condition and an associated user identification. The instructions further include storing at least the time condition. The at least stored time condition is used at least in part for associating the metadata with the media object. The media object is then provided to the user.

Furthermore in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention a system for associating metadata with a media object is provided. The system includes logic for receiving the metadata an associated time condition and an associated user identification. The system further includes a database for storing at least the time condition. The system also includes logic for associating the metadata with the media object based at least in part upon the time condition and logic for providing to the user the media object.

Other features and aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The summary is not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof and which illustrate several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and operational changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The use of the same reference symbols in different drawings indicates similar or identical items.

The following description is presented to enable any person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific materials techniques and applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications to the examples described herein will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other examples and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the examples described and shown.

Embodiments of the invention enable users to associate metadata with media objects which the user is unaware of or does not have access to at the time in form of tags and annotations for example. The metadata is associated with the media object based in part on a time condition.

In some embodiments a user may be able to determine activities and events that may be of interest to the user in the future. For example metadata may be associated to event data from an application that provides upcoming local events. An example of an application that may be used is upcoming.yahoo.com. The user s associated metadata may also indicate the user s level of interest or engagement in certain types of activities and events.

 Metadata may refer to multiple metadata or just one metadatum such as a tag or annotation. A tag is a keyword or term associated with a piece of information such as a media object. The metadata or tag is describing the item and enabling keyword based classification and search of information. Tags are usually chosen by an author or by a consumer viewers or a community. Media objects may be but are not limited to a picture a geographic map a blog entry a video clip etc.

As illustrated in embodiments of the invention provide for associating metadata with a media object. After receiving the metadata an associated time condition and an associated user identification in at least the time condition and user ID is stored in a database . In response to a request for the metadata the metadata is associated with the media object in and provided to the user . More particularly the media object may be uploaded to the client at the client. The user may view a video file with the tags associated for example.

The user may also be prompted to choose if they wish to import the tag into the current media object. If the user chooses to import the tag the tag is added as metadata to the current media object such as the online lecture video and are removed from the database.

However the user may also choose to apply the tag. In this case the tag is also added as metadata to the media object but kept stored in the database. The tag may be applied to other media objects in the future.

The query will search for images that were created at the time specified by the time condition and were uploaded to the external media application. The external media application may be photo sharing sites such as Flickr for example. The images that are found to satisfy the time condition defined in the added metadata by the user are returned to the user . The user hopes to find a digital image created at the same instant he made the request to a system for adding metadata to a media object.

The server may request the metadata from the database . This request may be an API Application Programming Interface . The API request can return all the metadata or tags within a specified time range.

The tags are associated to a media which may be from an external media application . The external media application may be Flickr YouTube emails calendar entries etc for example.

While aspects of the invention including the above described systems and methods are described in terms of particular embodiments and illustrative figures those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments or figures described. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the operations of the various embodiments may be implemented using hardware software firmware or combinations thereof as appropriate. For example some processes can be carried out using processors or other digital circuitry under the control of software firmware or hard wired logic. The term logic herein refers to fixed hardware programmable logic and or an appropriate combination thereof as would be recognized by one skilled in the art to carry out the recited functions. Software and firmware can be stored on computer readable media. Some other processes can be implemented using analog circuitry as is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Additionally memory or other storage as well as communication components may be employed in embodiments of the invention.

Computing system can also include a main memory for example random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computing system may likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

The computing system may also include information storage mechanism which may include for example a media drive and a removable storage interface . The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a CD or DVD drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive. Storage media may include for example a hard disk floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by and written to by media drive . As these examples illustrate the storage media may include a computer readable storage medium having stored therein particular computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments information storage mechanism may include other similar instrumentalities for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into computing system . Such instrumentalities may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface such as a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory module and memory slot and other removable storage units and interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computing system .

Computing system can also include a communications interface . Communications interface can be used to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Examples of communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet or other NIC card a communications port such as for example a USB port a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel may carry signals and may be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface a local or wide area network and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program product and computer readable medium may be used generally to refer to media such as for example memory storage device storage unit or signal s on channel . These and other forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable the computing system to perform features or functions of embodiments of the present invention.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer readable medium and loaded into computing system using for example removable storage drive drive or communications interface . The control logic in this example software instructions or computer program code when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

It will be appreciated that for clarity purposes the above description has described embodiments of the invention with reference to different functional units and processors. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units processors or domains may be used without detracting from the invention. For example functionality illustrated to be performed by separate processors or controllers may be performed by the same processor or controller. Hence references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with some embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. Rather the scope of the present invention is limited only by the claims. Additionally although a feature may appear to be described in connection with particular embodiments one skilled in the art would recognize that various features of the described embodiments may be combined in accordance with the invention. Moreover aspects of the invention describe in connection with an embodiment may stand alone as an invention.

Furthermore although individually listed a plurality of means elements or method steps may be implemented by for example a single unit or processor. Additionally although individual features may be included in different claims these may possibly be advantageously combined and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that a combination of features is not feasible and or advantageous. Also the inclusion of a feature in one category of claims does not imply a limitation to this category but rather the feature may be equally applicable to other claim categories as appropriate.

Moreover it will be appreciated that various modifications and alterations may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but is to be defined according to the claims.

