---

title: Co-linear antenna for direction finding
abstract: A direction-finding co-linear antenna is provided by collinearly aligning an exposed reference antenna with a primary antenna that is surrounded by a dielectric sleeve with a predetermined thickness and the reference and primary antennas are separated by a ground plane. The direction-finding co-linear antenna provides a simple, light-weight and inexpensive arrangement with fewer antennas and reduced antenna spacing that avoids unwanted detection because of a smaller electronic footprint that consists of the area of a single antenna plus a few inches of dielectric material in the sleeves rather than four widely spaced antennas positioned in an array. The direction-finding co-linear antenna apparatus also requires less electronic processing because the antenna only needs to address the RF from two antennas rather than from four or five antennas in a conventional array arrangement. The present invention also encompasses a direction-finding co-linear antenna system and a method for determining the unknown location of a signal transmission source with a co-linear direction-finding antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07652626&OS=07652626&RS=07652626
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07652626
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071205
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to us of any royalty thereon.

The present invention relates to antenna devices. More particularly the present invention relates to devices and methods providing a co linear antenna for direction finding.

Direction finding is the establishment of the direction from which a received signal was transmitted. By combining the directional information from two or more suitably spaced receivers the source of a transmission can be determined through the process of triangulation. Direction finding often requires an antenna that is directional by being more sensitive in certain directions than in others and a number of antennas exhibit this property. Direction finding antennas have been used in numerous military and civilian applications such as aircraft navigation disaster response search and rescue reconnaissance signals intelligence airborne or ground Identification of Friend or Foe IFF systems and law enforcement.

While direction finding antennas have found many useful applications they can still suffer from a number of disadvantages shortcomings and limitations. One significant disadvantage with current direction finding antenna systems is the antenna spacing problem typically found in antenna arrays with 4 or 5 vertical monopole or dipole antennas. It is possible to determine the Angle of Arrival by measuring the time delay or phase difference Interferometric technique between all antennas in the array but in interferometric direction finding systems antenna spacing is dependent upon the longest RF wavelength that is being detected. In the lower VHF band such antenna spacing can become prohibitively large. Also in TDOA systems the antennas spacing is determined by the minimum detectable time difference and therefore the antenna spacing can again be prohibitive. Thus there has been a long felt need for a direction finding antenna that reduces or eliminates antenna spacing problems particularly in the lower VHF band.

Another disadvantage with current antenna array direction finding systems is the relatively large footprint found when using four widely spaced antennas in an array which in turn causes a number of operational and tactical problems such as unwanted detection by an adversary as well as cumbersome and complex calibrated cable assemblies. Other disadvantages related to the excessive size and unwieldy nature of current direction finding antenna arrays include the expense of multiple antennas excessive weight and wind drag. Additionally processing signals from a multiple antenna array also requires more costly and sophisticated electronics equipment.

Thus there has been a long felt need for direction finding antenna systems with fewer antennas that are simpler less costly less cumbersome and able to avoid unwanted detection by adversaries through a reduction in antenna spacing. Up until now this long felt need for such direction finding antenna apparatus has not been answered.

This invention s direction finding co linear antenna system answers the long felt need for a simpler less costly and less cumbersome direction finding antenna system that avoids unwanted detection by adversaries and provides reduced antenna spacing with a simple light weight and inexpensive arrangement having an exposed reference antenna a primary antenna surrounded by a dielectric material having a certain thickness and a ground plane that separates the two antennas. The predetermined thickness of the dielectric material surrounding the primary antenna depends upon the azimuthal angle around the antenna structure. Since the speed of RF is slowed down in a dielectric the TDOA of the same RF wave front between the reference and primary antennas is directly related to the RF wave s Angle of Arrival AoA .

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a simpler direction finding co linear antenna apparatus.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a simpler less costly and less cumbersome direction finding co linear antenna apparatus.

It is still another object of the present invention to provide a simpler less costly and more compact direction finding co linear antenna system composed of a reference antenna and primary antenna separated by a ground plane with the primary antenna surrounded by a dielectric material.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide a method for direction finding with a co linear antenna.

These and other objects and advantages are accomplished by this invention s direction finding co linear antenna apparatus comprising an exposed reference antenna aligned collinearly with a primary antenna that is surrounded by a dielectric sleeve with a predetermined thickness with the reference and primary antennas being separated by a ground plane. This invention s direction finding co linear antenna system provides a simple light weight and inexpensive arrangement that answers the long felt need for a direction finding antenna system with fewer antennas and reduced antenna spacing that avoids unwanted detection because its smaller electronic footprint consists of the area of a single antenna plus a few inches of dielectric material in the sleeves rather than four widely spaced antennas positioned in an array. In accordance with the present invention the antenna can be a monopole dipole or any antenna that is omnidirectional in the azimuthal plane. This invention s direction finding co linear antenna apparatus also provides the advantages of less expense less weight a simpler radome design and less wind drag which is especially critical in airborne applications. Another advantage of the present invention is that it requires less processing by back end electronics because one only needs to address the RF from two antennas rather than the four or five antenna array arrangements found in the prior art. The present invention also encompasses a method for determining the unknown location of a signal transmission source with a co linear direction finding antenna.

Referring now to the drawings is a cross sectional side view of the co linear direction finding DF antenna comprising a reference antenna a primary antenna that co linearly opposes the reference antenna and a dielectric sleeve surrounding the primary antenna . A ground plane physically supports both antennas and and is orthogonally positioned between each of them. The dielectric sleeve is configured as a spiral with a thickness that is related to the azimuthal angle of arrival AoA around the primary antenna . The primary and reference antennas of co linear DF antenna are coupled to a means for detecting a time difference of arrival or phase difference not shown in this drawing which can be made from standard commercially available TDOA electronics such as Gilbert Cells phase locked loops PLLs or discrete components. The base of each antenna and is electrically isolated from ground plane . Reference antenna and primary antenna are both omnidirectional antennas.

In operation and referring back to this invention s co linear DF antenna is shown oriented to receive a vertically polarized RF wave and shows the spiral dielectric sleeve with a thickness that varies in a specific fashion depending on the azimuthal angle around the structure. Locating the co linear DF antenna in the vicinity of a transmission signal from a source at an unknown location generates a reference antenna radio frequency and a primary antenna radio frequency. The dielectric sleeve causes a delayed primary antenna frequency. The detecting means monitors and compares the reference antenna radio frequency and the delayed primary antenna radio frequency to establish a time of arrival delay or phase delay for the delayed primary antenna frequency thus determining the bearing to the unknown transmitter location.

One can use a number of different spirals. An Archimedean Spiral is given by the simple relationship between radius and polar angle of Equation 1 where r is the radius to the outer edge of dielectric is a proportionality constant is the polar angle and n is a constant that determines how tightly the spiral is wound and also the subtype of the spiral. The Table below shows the spiral subtype for a number of different n 

In accordance with the present invention the basic antenna function relies on the fact that electromagnetic radiation travels slower through a dielectric material than it would in free space the higher the dielectric constant the slower the speed. This relationship is given by the equation 

This underlying operating principles of this invention s co linear DF antenna are illustrated in which depicts a compass rose superimposed on a top view of the co linear DF antenna with an RF wave represented by arrow A arriving from the 0 direction and a second RF wave B arriving from the 90 direction. In this case the 0 RF wave A is traversing free space and not passing through the spiral dielectric sleeve before reaching the reference and primary antennas and so that the TDOA between the two antennas would be zero and the phase shift would also be zero i.e. there is no time difference of arrival for arrow A. When the 90 RF wave B arrives from the 90 direction its arrival at the primary antenna would be delayed slightly compared to its arrival at the reference antenna . Since the total delay is unique to a particular angle based upon the thickness of spiral dielectric sleeve the AoA can then be unambiguously determined. Similarly any signals arriving from the 180 270 or other directions not shown in this drawing would be delayed for even longer time periods because the signals are passing through thicker and thicker portions of spiral dielectric sleeve .

By contrast in a prior art multiple antenna array TDOA or interferometric direction finding system the arriving RF plane wave hits some antennas in the array before hitting others. A key disadvantage with the interferometric technique is that antenna spacing depends upon the longest RF wavelength being detected which can be prohibitively large in the lower VHF band. Also in TDOA systems the antennas spacing is determined by the minimum detectable time difference and therefore the antenna spacing can again be prohibitive. By using two coaxial antennas that are separated by a ground plane in accordance with this invention the reference antenna is a simple exposed antenna while the primary antenna is surrounded by the spiral dielectric sleeve that slows the speed of the RF through the dielectric making the TDOA of the same RF wave front between the reference and primary antennas and directly related to the AoA of the RF wave based upon the simple relationship between the dielectric constant and the speed of electromagnetic radiation shown in Equation 2 above. Although the drawings depict a system with two coaxial monopole antennas separated by a ground plane the present invention also contemplates using other omnidirectional antenna such as dipoles instead of monopoles.

Just as a normal antenna performs optimally in a certain band so too would this invention s co linear DF antenna . Parameters such as the dielectric constant maximum dielectric thickness and antenna length may also be adjusted for trade offs between angular resolution weight antenna diameter and operating frequency band. As an example if one desires the most precise angular precision possible and is not concerned with overall system diameter or weight a low dielectric constant material could be used. A typical dielectric material for the spiral dielectric sleeve could be Teflon which has low RF losses i.e. a loss tangent of 0.0028 3 GHz a moderate dielectric constant 2.1 and can be easily shaped and machined into the complex spiral shape. Other suitable dielectric materials or metamaterials can also be used for the spiral dielectric sleeve .

An additional feature of this invention is that multiple co linear DF antenna systems can be deployed in a widely spaced area to obtain intersecting AoA and therefore determine the geographic location of a RF emitter rather than a simple DF. This invention can be used for many different military and civilian uses numerous such as signals intelligence direction finding for friend or foe whether airborne or ground locate a ship in distress. In the civilian sector law enforcement can use it for tracking stolen vehicles and regulatory agencies such as the FCC can use it to track down illegal or interfering transmitters. In accordance with the present invention the antenna can be either the monopole or omnidirectional type of antenna and the omnidirectional antenna can also be a dipole antenna. The present invention is especially well suited for but not limited to the VHF and UHF RF bands.

Other variations include the size shape configuration and position of the dielectric sleeve the type of spiral employed and selecting either the monopole or omnidirectional antenna. The present invention also encompasses a co linear direction finding antenna system and many variations of the antenna embodiment also apply to the co linear direction finding antenna system.

The present invention also contemplates a method for determining the unknown location of a signal transmission source with a co linear direction finding antenna. The method for determining the unknown location of a signal transmission source with a co linear direction finding antenna comprises the steps of forming a reference antenna with a reference antenna base forming a primary antenna with a primary antenna base aligning the primary antenna to co linearly oppose the reference antenna forming a dielectric sleeve with a predetermined thickness related to an azimuthal angle around the primary antenna forming a ground plane positioning the ground plane in an orthogonal orientation to support the reference antenna and the primary antenna and electrically separate them allowing the reference antenna to receive a reference antenna radio frequency from the signal transmission source and allowing the primary antenna to receive a primary antenna radio frequency. The method continues with the steps of causing a delayed primary antenna frequency when the primary antenna radio frequency penetrates the dielectric sleeve monitoring the reference antenna radio frequency and the delayed primary antenna radio frequency with a means for detecting a time difference of arrival comparing the reference antenna radio frequency and the delayed primary antenna radio frequency with the detecting means to establish a time of arrival delay of the delayed primary antenna frequency and provide an Angle of Arrival for the delayed primary antenna frequency and determining the unknown location without emitting a detectable electronic signature. Many of the variations of the co linear direction finding antenna and co linear direction finding antenna system also apply to this invention s method.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

