---

title: System and method for testing voltage endurance
abstract: A method for testing voltage endurance of a electronic component, includes: generating an oscillating signal; amplifying the oscillating signal; transforming the amplified oscillating signal to generate a transformed signal; blocking a negative voltage of the transformed signal to generate a test signal to be transmitted to the electronic component; and detecting electrical characteristics of the electronic component to generate result data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07586315&OS=07586315&RS=07586315
owner: Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd.
number: 07586315
owner_city: Tu-Cheng, Taipei Hsien
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20070810
---
The present invention generally relates to a test system and particularly to a system and method for testing voltage endurance.

Electronic devices usually include many kinds of electronic components such as diodes bipolar junction transistors MOSFETs and capacitors. Breakdown voltage is an important parameter when evaluating performance of the electronic components. Take a diode as an example if the breakdown voltage of the diode is below a certain minimum as required by the electronic device the diode will conduct reversely which can causes unexpected results.

A voltage endurance of an electronic component is tested before assembling the electronic component into the electronic device so as to make sure the electronic component will not be damaged by a largest voltage in the electronic device. Referring to a traditional test apparatus includes a microcontroller a digital to analog D A converter a power amplifier and a transformer . The microcontroller generates a digital signal and transmits the digital signal to the D A converter . The digital signal is converted into an analog signal by the D A converter . The analog signal is then amplified and transmitted to the transformer by the power amplifier . The transformer transforms voltage of the amplified analog signal to generate an alternating current AC voltage. The AC voltage is transmitted to the electronic component as a test signal for testing the electronic component.

However a negative voltage in the test signal will affect precision of a test result. For example a negative electric potential generated by the negative voltage and stored in capacitors will counteract a part of the test signal in positive voltage.

A system for testing voltage endurance of an electronic component includes a signal generator a power amplifier a transform unit a signal adjust unit and a voltage reading module. The signal generator is used for generating an oscillating signal. The power amplifier is connected to the signal generator for receiving and amplifying the oscillating signal. The transform unit is coupled to the power amplifier for transforming the amplified oscillating signal to generate a transformed signal. The signal adjust unit is constructed and arranged for blocking a negative voltage of the transformed signal to generate a test signal to be transmitted to the electronic component. The voltage reading module is coupled to the electronic component for detecting electrical characteristics of the electronic component to generate result data.

A method for testing voltage endurance of an electronic component includes generating an oscillating signal amplifying the oscillating signal transforming the amplified oscillating signal to generate a transformed signal blocking a negative voltage of the transformed signal to generate a test signal to be transmitted to the electronic component and detecting electrical characteristics of the electronic component to generate result data.

Other advantages and novel features will become more apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which 

Reference will now be made to the drawings to describe a preferred embodiment of the present system and method for testing voltage endurance.

Referring to a block diagram of a test system for testing voltage endurance of an electronic component in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is illustrated. The test system includes a signal module a voltage reading module a control module a display apparatus and a clamp apparatus .

The signal module is configured to connected to the electronic component and to transmit a test signal to the electronic component .

The voltage reading module is used for detecting the electronic component while the test signal is transmitted to the electronic component .

The control module is coupled to the voltage reading module the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus respectively. The control module is configured for receiving result data from the voltage reading module controlling information displayed on the display apparatus and signaling the clamp apparatus to clamp or release the electronic component . Before testing the voltage endurance of the electronic component the clamp apparatus clamps the electronic component to be connected to the test system .

Referring to a detailed block diagram of the test system is illustrated. The signal module includes a signal generator a power amplifier a transform unit and a signal adjust unit .

The signal generator is configured for outputting an oscillating signal. The signal generator can be selected from a group consisting of a resistor capacitor RC oscillator a timer circuit and any other sine wave or square wave signal generating circuits.

The power amplifier is connected to the signal generator for receiving and amplifying the oscillating signal. The power amplifier can be selected from a group consisting of a transistor amplifier and an integrated circuit amplifier.

The transform unit is coupled to the power amplifier for transforming the amplified oscillating signal to a transformed signal.

The signal adjust unit is configured for receiving and adjusting the transformed signal to generate the test signal such as blocking negative voltages in the transformed signal.

The test signal is transmitted to the electronic component for testing the electronic component . The voltage reading module is coupled to the electronic component for detecting electrical characteristics of the electronic component such as a voltage of the electronic component . The result data outputted by the voltage reading module based on the electrical characteristics is transmitted to the control module for further analyzing. Generally if the electronic component is damaged a resistance of the electronic component drops near to zero rapidly. Thus the voltage of the electronic component drops accordingly.

The control module includes a processor and a storage unit . The storage unit is used for storing a predetermined value. The processor is configured for comparing the result data with the predetermined value so as to determine whether the electronic component meets a predefined design requirement in a preferred embodiment the design requirement represent a voltage endurance value that indicates the electronic component is eligible for being assembled in an electronic device. If the electronic component is eligible for being assembled in the electronic device the processor sends a first instruction to the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus . In response to the first instruction the display apparatus displays eligible information of the electronic component on the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus releases the electronic component to a first area that stores eligible tested electronic components and clamps a next electronic component . If the electronic component is not eligible for being assembled in the electronic device the processor sends a second instruction to the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus . In response to the second instruction the display apparatus displays that the electronic component is not eligible for being assembled in the electronic device on the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus releases the electronic component to a second area that stores ineligible electronic components and clamps the next electronic component. Exemplarily the clamp apparatus is a pneumatic clamp.

Referring to a schematic diagram of an exemplary circuit is illustrated. In the exemplary circuit a test diode D is employed as an example of the electronic component . The signal generator includes a timer Integrated Circuit IC U a variable resistor W five resistors R R five capacitors C C and a switch S. The power amplifier includes a MOSFET Q and a resistor R. The transform unit includes a transformer T. The signal adjust unit includes a blocking diode D and resistors R R. The voltage reading module includes a digital multimeter . The control module is a computer connected to the digital multimeter via a RS 232 interface. The display module is a LCD monitor coupled to the computer for displaying information.

The timer IC U includes a ground port GND a control port CONT a trigger port TRIG a reset port REST a voltage supply port VCC an output port OUT a discharge port DISCH and a threshold port THRES. The ground port GND and the control port CONT are connected to the ground. The trigger port TRIG is connected to a common node of the capacitors C C via the resistor R and the variable resistor W. The threshold port THRES is connected to the common node . The discharge port DISCH is connected to one end of the switch S via the resistor R another end of the switch S can be selectively connected to the capacitors C C. The output port OUT is connected to ground via the resistor R and the resistor R. The reset port REST is connected to a voltage source terminal via the resistor R. The voltage supply port VCC is connected to the voltage source terminal directly.

An end of a primary winding of the transformer T is connected to the voltage source terminal another end of the primary winding of the transformer T is connected to the drain terminal of the MOSFET Q. The source terminal of the MOSFET Q is grounded via the resistor R. The gate terminal of the MOSFET Q is connected to the interconnection between the resistor R and the resistor R. An end of a secondary winding of the transformer T is grounded another end of the secondary winding of the transformer T is connected to the anode of the blocking diode D. The cathode of the blocking diode D is connected to the cathode of the test diode D via the resistor R and the resistor R. The anode of the test diode D is grounded. The resistor R and the digital multimeter are connected in serial and then are parallel to the resistor R and the test diode D.

In operation the oscillating signal is generated by the timer IC U and outputted from the output port OUT. A frequency and duty of the oscillating signal can be adjusted by adjusting the variable resistor W and selecting one of the capacitors C C. The oscillating signal is amplified by the MOSFET Q. The gate terminal of the MOSFET Q is connected to the interconnection between the resistor R and the resistor R thus a voltage inputted to the gate terminal can be adjusted by setting resistance values of the resistor R and the resistor R.

The drain terminal of the MOSFET Q is connected to the primary winding of the transformer T the amplified oscillating signal is transmitted to the transformer T. The transformer T transforms the amplified oscillating signal to generate the transformed signal and output the transformed signal from the secondary winding. The transformed signal is transmitted to the blocking diode D. The blocking diode D is configured for blocking the negative voltage in the transformed signal and generating the test signal. The resistors R and R are serially connected to the test diode D for dividing the voltage applied on the test diode D. The digital multimeter generates the result data according to the voltage detected from the test diode D. The result data is transmitted to the computer via the RS 232 interface. The computer determines whether the test diode D is eligible or not eligible for being assembled in the electronic device. Generally the test signal is configured to output the largest voltage to be applied to the test diode. If the test diode D is not breakdown under the largest voltage thus the digital multimeter will detect a voltage value close to the largest voltage and the test diode D is eligible for being assembled in the electronic device. If the test diode D is breakdown under the largest voltage the resistance of the test diode D drops rapidly to almost zero and the voltage of the test diode D drops accordingly. Thus the test diode D is not eligible for being assembled in the electronic device.

The test system blocks the negative voltage by the blocking diode D thus an effect of the negative voltage is avoided. The oscillating signal is generated by the timer IC U thus the microcontroller and digital to analog converter are not required by the test system . The clamp apparatus clamps and releases the electronic component automatically under the control of the control module . Therefore prevention actions for electrostatic discharge of manually operation are not required.

Referring to an exemplary method for testing the voltage endurance of the electronic component is illustrated. First in step the clamp apparatus clamps the electronic component and connects the electronic component to the test system .

In step the transform unit transforms the amplified oscillating signal to generate the transformed signal that includes the largest voltage to test the electronic component .

In step the signal adjust unit receives and adjusts the transformed signal to generate the test signal.

In step the voltage reading module detects the electrical characteristics of the electronic component such as the voltage of the electronic component . The result data generated by the voltage reading module based on the electrical characteristics is transmitted to the control module for further analyzing.

In step the control module determines whether the electronic component is eligible or not eligible for being assembled in the electronic device. If the electronic component is eligible for being assembled in the electronic device the first instruction is sent to the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus . In response to the first instruction the display apparatus displays the eligible information on the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus releases the electronic component to the first area for storing the eligible electronic components and clamps the next electronic component step . If the electronic component is not eligible for being assembled in the electronic device the second instruction is sent to the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus . In response to the second instruction the display apparatus displays the ineligible information on the display apparatus and the clamp apparatus releases the electronic component to the second area for storing the ineligible electronic components and clamps the next electronic component step .

The embodiments described herein are merely illustrative of the principles of the present invention. Other arrangements and advantages may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention should be deemed not to be limited to the above detailed description but rather by the spirit and scope of the claims that follow and their equivalents.

