---

title: Techniques for group messaging on a mobile computing device
abstract: Techniques for group messaging on a mobile computing device are described. An apparatus may comprise a message server to communicate messages between multiple mobile computing devices. The message server may have a group message management module to establish a group messaging session between the multiple mobile computing devices. The group message management module may have a group generating module to receive a message with a group message indicator and identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices within the message. The group generating module may form a message group to communicate messages from any one of the mobile computing devices to all of the mobile computing devices for the group messaging session. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544180&OS=09544180&RS=09544180
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09544180
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In addition to supporting telephone and voicemail services a mobile computing device may support various other types of mobile messaging services such as facsimile electronic mail email instant messaging IM short message service SMS messaging multimedia message service MMS messaging video conferencing and so forth. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing enhanced mobile messaging services.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to techniques for performing enhanced group messaging between mobile computing devices in a wireless communications system. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to techniques for automatically and or selectively providing enhanced group messaging services for mobile computing devices while reducing the number of operations or procedures typically needed to establish a group messaging session. In one embodiment for example the enhanced group messaging services may provide a messaging experience for an operator that is instantaneous and yet asynchronous.

In one embodiment a message server may receive a message from any given type of mobile messaging application. The message may include identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices and in some cases a group message indicator. The message server may have group message logic arranged to detect and use the identifying information and possibly the group message indicator to create a message group a message group identifier for the message group and a message storage queue for the message group. The message server may then use the message group identifier to allow the mobile computing devices in the message group to participate in a many to many group message session. The message server may also use the message group identifier to archive messages for the group message session and provide the archived messages in an asynchronous manner to a mobile computing device joining the group message session sometime after it has been started. In this manner the message server may automatically create a group messaging session from any type of message and from any type of messaging application as well as asynchronously provide a group message context for an operator of the mobile computing device joining the group messaging session. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments may provide various advantages for any number of group message use scenarios. For example multiple mobile computing devices and a message server may cooperatively interoperate to automatically and or selectively provide group messaging services for different messaging types across different transports. In another example a message server may allow the mobile computing devices to enter a group message conversation at any time and still be able to see a message history for some or all of the group messaging session. In yet another example a message server may provide or deliver the messages for a given group messaging session even if an operator or user is not actively using a mobile computing device. In still another example the messages may be delivered in an asynchronous manner that allows the operator to access them at any time during or after a group messaging session. In yet another example the group messages may include both text messages and multimedia messages with the latter message service feature allowing operators to send rich content in the form of various message objects or widgets. In still another example the message server may also establish a group messaging session without the need for a separate group messaging view and while reducing or eliminating the need to perform register and login operations for each mobile computing device prior to participating in the group messaging session. These are merely a few advantages and message use scenarios for the various embodiments and other advantages and use scenarios will be described with reference to specific embodiments below.

In one embodiment the communications nodes may comprise or be implemented as mobile computing devices . The mobile computing devices may be configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing devices may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth.

In one embodiment the communications server may be implemented as a message server. A message server may comprise a computer system designated for running a specific message server application or applications to provide various messaging services to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Each of the messaging applications may be representative of a particular kind of transport enabling handling of messages of particular types and formats for the particular application. The message server applications may include without limitation a short message service SMS application a SMS cell broadcast SMS CB application a multimedia message service MMS application an electronic mail email application an instant messaging IM application a text message application a voice message application a video message application a group message application a synchronous conferencing application an asynchronous conferencing application and so forth. Furthermore the message server may comprise or be implemented with other network infrastructure used by a given messaging application. For example when the message server implements an SMS application the message server may be implemented with or may be arranged to communicate with various SMS network elements such as a SMS center SMSC designed to deliver SMS messages for a mobile telephone network.

In various embodiments the message server may be arranged to provide messaging services specifically for various wireless mobile devices such as the mobile computing devices . For example the message server may be implemented with wireless capabilities to communicate with the mobile computing devices over the wireless shared media . Further the message server may be implemented to provide voice and or data communications services for the mobile computing devices via one or more wireless networks. For example the message server may be implemented as part of or co located with a cellular radiotelephone system or computer network as described in more detail with reference to .

In various embodiments the message server may be arranged to provide messaging services in accordance with various messaging protocols. In one embodiment for example the message server may be arranged to operate in accordance with various instant messaging and presence technology protocols as promulgated by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF such as the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP proposed standards Request For Comment RFC 3920 and 3921 its progeny revisions and variants. XMPP is an open Extensible Markup Language XML type protocol for near real time extensible instant messaging and presence information also known as buddy lists. Although some embodiments may implement XMPP other similar message transports may be used as desired for a given implementation.

The message server may be arranged to provide many to many group messaging services sometimes referred to colloquially as a group chat or online chat for the mobile computing devices . By way of contrast many conventional messaging applications are limited to one to one interactions or one to many interactions. One to one communications may refer to the act of an individual communicating information with another individual such as between the mobile computing devices . Examples of one to one communications may include IM services File Transfer Protocol FTP services email services between individuals and so forth. One to many communications may refer to the act of an individual publishing or broadcasting information to multiple individuals such as between the mobile computing device and the mobile computing devices . Examples of one to many communications may include SMS CB services email services from one individual to multiple recipients web services and so forth. In addition to or in lieu of one to one and one to many communications the message server may be arranged to provide group messaging services referred to sometimes as many to many communications. Many to many communications may refer to the act of multiple individuals communicating information to multiple individuals. Examples of many to many communications may include group chat services online chat services email services from multiple senders to multiple recipients and so forth.

In various embodiments the communications system may be arranged to provide enhanced group messaging services for the various communications elements of the communications system . For example the mobile computing devices and the message server may cooperatively interoperate to provide group messaging services for different messaging types across different transports. Furthermore the message server may allow the mobile computing devices to enter a group message conversation at any time and still be able to see the message history for the group messaging session. In addition the message server will provide the messages for a given group messaging session even if an operator or user is not actively using a mobile computing device . For example the messages may be delivered in an asynchronous manner that allows the operator to access them at any time. The group messages may also include both text messages and multimedia messages with the latter message service feature allowing operators to send rich content in the form of various message objects or widgets. Further the message server may establish the group messaging session while reducing or eliminating the need to perform register and login operations for each mobile computing device prior to participating in the group messaging session. These are merely a few advantages of the various embodiments and other advantages will be described with reference to specific embodiments.

In particular various embodiments may provide or implement group messaging services particularly many to many group messaging services in a manner that allows multiple operators to emulate an online chat room through use of one to one or one to many communication techniques. Further various embodiments facilitate such group messaging services without having the need to open a separate chat window or chat room or performing complicated and tedious register and login operations for each mobile computing device prior to participating in the group messaging session.

In one embodiment for example the message server may be arranged to communicate messages between multiple mobile computing devices . The message server may include a group message management module . The group message management module may comprise for example hardware and or software such as group message logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. a host or applications processor . The group message logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In various implementations the group message management module may communicate with a group message rules database arranged to store rules and parameters for controlling the performance of group message operations for different types of messages.

The group message management module may be arranged to automatically and or selectively establish a group messaging session between the multiple mobile computing devices . For example the group message management module may include a group generating module to receive a message with a group message indicator and identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices within the message. The group generating module may form a message group for the mobile computing devices to communicate messages from any one of the mobile computing devices to all of the mobile computing devices for the group messaging session. An exemplary mobile computing device and an exemplary message server may be described in further detail with reference to respective .

The mobile computing device may comprise or implement various mobile messaging applications . The mobile messaging applications may comprise for example hardware and or software such as mobile messaging control logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host or applications processor . The logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In one or more embodiments the mobile messaging applications may be implemented as one or more mobile messaging application programming interface API commands on the applications processor .

In one embodiment the mobile computing device may be arranged to support cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may include various mobile messaging applications arranged to communicate messages for a group messaging session. For example the mobile messaging applications may be arranged to initiate a group messaging session by sending an initial message to the message server . The initial message may include any type of regular or normal message from any of the mobile messaging applications modified to include at least two data items within the initial message including 1 a group message indicator and 2 identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices . In some cases however the group message indicator may be omitted as described further below.

In various embodiments the group message indicator may comprise any control information embedded within the initial message to indicate to the message server that a group message session should be established between multiple participants identified by the identifying information within the initial message. The control information may be implemented as any control word field parameter variable or flag that is understood by the message server to initiate or trigger a group message session.

In various embodiments the identifying information may comprise any information that uniquely identifies a mobile computing device and may be suitable to direct communications to the mobile computing device . Examples for identifying information may include operator information e.g. first name a last name a company employer name mailing addresses such as home work other and so forth telephone numbers e.g. home work mobile fax pager email addresses e.g. home work primary alternative IM screen names SMS identifier MMS identifier personal information notes globally unique identifier GUI universal resource locator URL network address Internet Protocol IP address device address media access control MAC address source address destination address and so forth.

Once a group message session has been established the mobile messaging applications may be arranged to receive messages from the multiple mobile computing devices from the message server . Each message may include a message group identifier for a message group including all of the mobile computing devices identified for that particular group message session.

In addition to the mobile messaging applications the mobile computing device may further include one or more message user interfaces . The message user interface may comprise any user interface or graphic user interface GUI arranged to generate provide or display a group chat view for the group messaging session. In some cases each mobile messaging application may utilize a separate message user interface or multiple user interfaces . In other cases some or all of the mobile messaging applications may utilize an integrated shared or uniform message user interface . In the former case the SMS application may include an SMS group chat view for the group messaging session. An example of an SMS group chat view suitable for use with a group messaging session may be described in more detail with reference to .

As previously described the message server may be arranged to automatically and or selectively establish a group message session between and among various mobile computing devices and communicate messages during the group message session between and among the multiple mobile computing devices . The message server may include the group message management module . The group message management module may be arranged to establish a group messaging session between multiple mobile computing devices such as the mobile computing devices for example. The group message management module may include a group generating module to receive a message with a group message indicator and identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices within the message. The group generating module may form a message group for a set or subset of the mobile computing devices such as a message group shown in for the mobile computing devices . The message group may be used to communicate messages from any one of the mobile computing devices to all of the mobile computing devices for the group messaging session.

The group message management module implemented by the message server may allow any one of the mobile computing devices to initiate a group message session for a message group comprising all or some of the mobile computing devices . This may be accomplished without forcing operators for the mobile computing devices to undergo the tedious process of performing registration and login service operations prior to joining a group message session.

By way of example assume an operator of the mobile computing device desires to initiate a group message session between various operators for the mobile computing devices . The operator for the mobile computing device may launch a mobile messaging application such as the SMS application for example. The SMS application may generate a SMS group message view using the message user interface . The operator of the mobile computing device may use the SMS group message view to select an option to generate a group message for a new group message session. The operator may enter or select identifying information for each of the participants in the group message session. For example the operator may select mobile telephone numbers assigned to each of the operators and or the mobile computing devices and as participants for the group message session enter text or multimedia information into the body of the message and send the message to the message server . When a group message option is selected the SMS application may embed a group message indicator within the header or payload of the SMS message and send the SMS message from the mobile computing device to the message server via the transceiver .

The message server may receive the SMS message from the mobile computing device and begin processing the SMS message to determine whether to automatically initiate a group message session. The group generating module may receive the SMS message with the group message indicator and detect identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices within the message. Upon detecting the group message indicator and the identifying information the group generating module may form a message group shown in for the mobile computing devices using the identifying information. The group generating module may generate a message group identifier for the message group . The message group identifier may be any permanent or temporary identifier suitable for uniquely identifying the message group and or the message group session. The group generating module may then associate the identifying information for the mobile computing devices with the message group identifier.

Once the message group has been generated the group generating module may store the message group identifier and the associated identifying information in the memory . The group generating module may also establish or generate a message storage queue corresponding to the message group identifier. The message storage queue may be used to store or archive any messages communicated by the message group . For example the message storage queue may be used to store the initial SMS message used to establish the group message session and any subsequent messages communicated through the message server with the message group identifier. The archived messages stored by the message storage queue may be used for any mobile computing devices that join or enter the group message session after it has already been started. In this manner an operator may join the group message session at any time and have convenient access to previous messages communicated between the various mobile computing devices prior to the operator joining the group message session.

Once the message group has been generated and a message group identifier assigned the message server may send the original SMS message with the message group identifier to each mobile computing device in the message group for the group messaging session. Whenever a mobile computing device desires to respond to the initial message sent by the mobile computing device or send another message to the message group during the group message session the message will include the message group identifier along with the other information generally contained within a SMS message. The message server may receive messages with the embedded message group identifier retrieve the message group having the mobile computing devices and associated identifying information corresponding to the message group identifier and communicate such messages to all of the mobile computing devices of the message group using the identifying information. In this manner the message server may facilitate many to many group message sessions on behalf of the mobile computing devices .

In some cases the group generation module of the group message management module may be arranged to add members to an existing message group. Assume a member of the message group may desire to add a new member to the message group . For example assume the operator of the mobile computing device desires to invite the operator of the mobile computing device to join the group message session for the message group . In this case the operator of the mobile computing device may send a message with identifying information for the mobile computing device and the message group identifier for the message group to the mobile computing device . The message sent from the mobile computing device may comprise a new message or a response to a message received from another member of the message group . The operator of the mobile computing device may receive the message from the mobile computing device and respond to the message with the message group identifier with a message communicated through the message server . The group generation module of the group message management module of the message server may receive the message from the mobile computing device with the message group identifier for the message group . The group generation module may detect identifying information for the new mobile computing device and compare the identifying information with the stored message group . The comparison may indicate that the identifying information is not included with the stored message group and initiates add operations to add the mobile computing device to the message group . The group generation module may associate the identifying information for the mobile computing device with the message group identifier for the message group thereby updating the message group with the new mobile computing device .

In some cases a member of the message group may be unable to immediately receive the messages communicated by the various participants of the message group for various reasons. For example assume a new mobile computing device e.g. the mobile computing device joins the group message session sometime after the start of the group message session. In another example assume an original member of the message group is initially turned off or outside communication range of the message server and its extended network as messages are being communicated between the active members of the message group . By way of example assume the mobile computing device is initially turned off when the group message session is started. Further assume that at some time during the group message session the mobile computing device is turned on joins the group message session and begins receiving messages from the mobile computing devices and . The operator of the mobile computing device however may not have any context for the group message session since he or she cannot view any of the previous messages communicated by the message group . To reduce or avoid this problem the message server may detect that the mobile computing device has joined the group message session late and forward any stored messages from the message server to the mobile computing device .

In various embodiments the group message management module may include a group control module . The group control module may perform various administrative operations for an established group messaging session. One such administrative operation may include storing or archiving any messages communicated by a given member group during the group message session. For example the group control module may store messages for a group message session using the message storage queue generated by the group generation module when the message group was formed or generated. For example the group control module may be arranged to store the message with the group message indicator and any messages received with the message group identifier to a corresponding message storage queue for the message group . The group control module may detect when a mobile computing device needs previous archived messages for a group message session retrieve the archived messages from the appropriate message storage queue and send the retrieved archived messages to a mobile computing device e.g. the mobile computing devices joining the group messaging session as an existing member or a new member of the message group .

In various embodiments the group control module may provide a varying number or amount of archived messages to a mobile computing device joining a group messaging session after it has been started. For example a message archive volume parameter may be defined to control how many archived messages are delivered to a joining mobile computing device . In one case the message volume parameter may represent an absolute number of archived messages such as the last 10 messages. In another case the message volume parameter may represent a relative number of messages such as the last 25 of archived messages. In yet another case the message volume parameter may represent a time period such as all messages within the last 5 minutes. In still another case the message volume parameter may represent one or more operators in a message group such as from the operators of the mobile computing devices . The message volume parameter may be established by the group control module of the message server the originator of the group messaging session e.g. the mobile computing device or one or more participants of the message group. In the last example an operator of the mobile computing device joining the group messaging system may send the message volume parameter to the group control module .

In some cases the group control module may send the archived messages from the message storage queue in the form of separate or discrete messages. In such cases the receiving mobile computing device may receive the archived messages in sequence in an order approximating the original temporal flow of messages. In other cases the group control module may send the archived messages from the message storage queue in a form other than separate or discrete messages. For example the group control module may send the archived messages to a joining mobile computing device in the form of a partial or complete message log or file of archived messages a URL pointing to a web service with the archived messages and so forth.

In various embodiments the group message management module may be capable of communicating different messages from different message applications and message transports for a given message group during a group messaging session. In one embodiment for example the group message management module may include a message conversion module . The message conversion module may be arranged to convert a message with a given message group identifier from a first message type to a second message type. For example assume the mobile computing device utilizes an SMS application to communicate messages with the other mobile computing devices of the message group while the mobile computing device utilizes an email application to communicate such messages. Since the mobile computing devices utilize different message applications or transports the mobile computing devices may be unable to read each others messages. To solve this and similar problems the message conversion module may be arranged to perform message conversion operations to convert a message from one message format to another message format. Similarly the message conversion module may also be arranged to perform protocol conversion operations to convert a message sent with one type of protocol to a message compatible with a second type of protocol. In this manner the mobile computing devices may both participate in the group messaging session using their respective device configurations and available messaging applications.

Although some embodiments have been described using both a group message indicator and identifying information to automatically initiate or establish a group message session some embodiments may omit the need for a group message indicator to be embedded within the initial message. For example the message server may implement various message policy rules and parameters for controlling the performance of the group message management module with one or more message policy rules and parameters directed to determining when to initiate a group message session. The message policy rules and parameters may be stored by the group message rules database for example and the group message management module may communicate with the group message rules database for different types of messages and or message applications.

Any number of message policy rules and parameters may be defined to control when a message group and a group messaging session is automatically established by the group message management module in response to a received message or message transport. By way of example a default message policy rule may include initiating a group message session whenever identifying information for multiple recipients is present within a message. In another example a message policy rule may include initiating a group message session whenever certain identifying information is present within a message such as a given source address or destination address. In yet another example a message policy rule may include initiating a group message session whenever one or more operators of the mobile computing devices are under a certain age threshold. In still another example a message policy rule may include initiating a group message session whenever a message includes identifying information for a certain threshold number of mobile computing devices such as at least three mobile computing devices . It may be appreciated that these are merely a few of the message policy rules that may be implemented for a given embodiment. Other message policy rules may be implemented as conditional triggers to establish a group message session as desired for a given set of design parameters and performance constraints. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The logic flow may illustrate various operations for the communications system in general and the mobile computing devices and the message server in particular. For example the logic flow may illustrate operations for the group message management module to manage group message operations for the message server . As shown in the logic flow may receive a message with a group message indicator and identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices within the message at block . The logic flow may form a message group to communicate messages from any one of the mobile computing devices to all of the mobile computing devices for a group messaging session between the mobile computing devices at block . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment the logic flow may receive a message with a group message indicator and identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices within the message at block . For example the group generation module of the group message management module may receive a message with a group message indicator and identifying information for multiple mobile computing devices within the message. As previously described assume the mobile computing device sends a SMS message with identifying information for the mobile computing devices and as recipients as well as identifying information for the mobile computing device as the sender. The identifying information may comprise for example a mobile telephone number for the mobile computing device an email address for the mobile computing device an IP address for the mobile computing device and a SMS identifier for the mobile computing device .

In one embodiment the logic flow may form a message group to communicate messages from any one of the mobile computing devices to all of the mobile computing devices for a group messaging session between the mobile computing devices at block . For example the group generation module may form a message group to communicate messages from any one of the mobile computing devices to all of the mobile computing devices for a group messaging session between the mobile computing devices . The group messaging session may comprise a many to many group messaging session where a message from the mobile computing device is received by the mobile computing devices a message from the mobile computing device is received by the mobile computing devices and a message from the mobile computing device is received by the mobile computing devices and and so forth.

In one embodiment the group generation module may form a message group in a number of different ways. For example the group generation module may detect the identifying information for the mobile computing devices embedded within a message. The group generation module may form the message group with the identifying information and generate a message group identifier for the message group. The group generation module may send the message with the message group identifier to each mobile computing device in the message group for the group messaging session. The message server may then communicate any messages received with the message group identifier to all of the mobile computing devices of the message group via the transceiver .

As shown the messaging UI may comprise a title bar for displaying the title of a particular messaging application and the current time. The messaging UI also may comprise an address bar . As shown the address bar may comprise a To field which may display the contact name e.g. John Doe Jane Doe Mary Doe through reverse look up in the contact records or the telephone number of the recipient. In some cases the address bar may comprise other items such as a CC field a BCC field a subject field contact picture status line e.g. message priority receipt status errors receipt request validity period callback number vCard vCal and so forth.

The messaging UI may comprise a message composition area for entering message text. The messaging UI may be arranged to display a menu in response to pressing a menu button or by tapping and holding the screen for example. Exemplary items or soft keys for the menu may include without limitation Group Message Send Add Recipient Insert My Text Emoticons Add Media Add Picture Add Video Add Sound Pick Sound Record Sound Add Callback Number Add vCard Add vCal Clear Select All Paste Copy Cut Undo Save to Drafts Save as Template Spell Check Check Names Cancel Message Message Options and so forth.

The messaging UI may comprise a status bar . As shown the status bar may comprise a text button for displaying a pop up list of boilerplate text strings that can be inserted into messages and edited. The status bar may comprise an emoticon button to display a pop up of emoticons that can be inserted into the text area.

In various embodiments the messaging UI may allow the user to add media objects such as pictures video and or sounds to a message. In some embodiments for example the message composition area may comprise one or more add media button and or an add media soft key. For example the message composition area may comprise an add media button the status bar may comprise an add media button and or the menu may comprise an Add Media soft key . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

When the user selects to add media the user may be presented with a picture video recorder picker and or a sound recorder or picker. In some cases the user may be presented with an intermittent dialog warning the user about the fact that the messaging service might charge more for delivering media objects.

In various embodiments the messaging UI may enable a user to compose messages of different types of formats using the same unified messaging UI. In one embodiment for example the messaging UI may comprise a unified messaging UI for SMS messages and MMS messages. In such an embodiment after a media object has been added to the message the messaging UI may undergo an automatic or seamless conversion for supporting the transmission of the media objects. For example the messaging UI may automatically or seamless convert from an SMS messaging UI to an MMS messaging UI and the message will be sent as an MMS message. In the event that the user adds a media object and then removes the media object the messaging UI may automatically or seamless convert back from an MMS messaging UI to an SMS messaging UI. If the user does not add any media to the message conversion does not take place and the message may be sent as an SMS message. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In this embodiment the messaging UI may comprise a unified messaging UI supporting composition of SMS messages and MMS messages. It can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context and that the unified messaging UI may be implemented to support using various types of messages as well as various types of supporting messaging applications. In some implementations for example the message options soft key may enable the user to select among various types of message conversions and or delivery methods for sending a composed message. In such implementations the user may compose a message in one format e.g. SMS and then convert or send the message in another format e.g. MMS e mail IM etc. In some cases the conversion of a message from one format to a particular sending format may be based on programmed and or detected preferences constraints and or availability of a recipient to receive messages of a certain format. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in the menu may comprise icons associated with certain menu items or soft keys. In this embodiment for example the menu comprises a talk button icon associated with and displayed next to the Call Sender soft key. The menu also comprises an ok button icon associated with and displayed next to the Cancel Message soft key. In such an embodiment the mobile computing device may comprise a talk hardware button and an ok hardware button.

As further shown in the menu may comprise a Group Message soft key . The Group Message soft key may be selected whenever an operator desires to establish a many to many group messaging session with the participants entered in the To field. The Group Message soft key may generate and embed a group message indicator in the message prior to sending the message to the message server .

In various embodiments the message server is described as the initiator and moderator for a group messaging session. In some embodiments however some or all of the operations performed by the message server may be implemented by one of the mobile computing devices . In one embodiment for example the group message management module may be implemented with one or more of the mobile computing devices . Whenever a mobile computing device desires to initiate a group messaging session the operations performed by the message management module may be performed by the initiating mobile computing device . For example the mobile computing device may initiate a group messaging session by using the message user interface as previously described. Prior to sending the initial message however the initial message may be processed by the group message management module implemented by the mobile computing device . For example the group generation module may detect identifying information for the multiple mobile computing devices within the message including the source mobile computing device and any recipient mobile computing devices . The group generation module may form the message group with the identifying information and generate a message group identifier for the message group. The mobile computing device may send the message with the message group identifier to each mobile computing device in the message group for the group messaging session. Whenever the mobile computing device receives any messages with the message group identifier it can forward the message to the enter message group. Furthermore the group control module can maintain a message storage queue for the message group and or group messaging session for whenever an existing or new mobile computing device joins the group messaging session.

In some cases only partial operations for the group messaging management module may need to be implemented by a mobile computing device . For example since a mobile computing device initiating the group messaging session knows the recipients for the message already the group control module may be modified to forward any messages received from the recipients to the other recipients on the initial distribution list. In this manner one of the mobile computing devices may be enabled to initiate and moderate a group messaging session for multiple mobile computing devices including itself.

The mobile computing device may provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide mobile packet data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering mobile packet data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Optimized EVDO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EVDV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.1a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Various embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

