---

title: Photopolarimetric lidar dual-beam switching device and mueller matrix standoff detection system and method
abstract: An optomechanical switching device, a control system, and a graphical user interface for a photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection that employs differential-absorption Mueller matrix spectroscopy. An output train of alternate continuous-wave COlaser beams [ . . . L:L . . . ] is directed onto a suspect chemical-biological (CB) aerosol plume or the land mass it contaminates (S) vis-à-vis the OSD, with L [L] tuned on [detuned off] a resonant molecular absorption moiety of CB analyte. Both incident beams and their backscattered radiances from S are polarization-modulated synchronously so as to produce gated temporal voltage waveforms (scattergrams) recorded on a focus at the receiver end of a sensor (lidar) system. All 16 elements of the Mueller matrix (M) of S are measured via digital or analog filtration of constituent frequency components in these running scattergram data streams (phase-sensitive detection). A collective set of normalized elements {} (ratio to M) susceptible to analyte, probed on-then-off its molecular absorption band, form a unique detection domain that is scrutinized; i.e., any mapping onto this domain by incoming lidar data—by means of a trained neural network pattern recognition system for instance—cues a standoff detection event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08164742&OS=08164742&RS=08164742
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08164742
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070718
---
The present invention relates in general to a system and method for detecting chemical and biological materials at a distance. More particularly the present invention relates to an optical switching device for use in a system for detecting and identifying target contaminants such as chemical or biological warfare materials CBs or simulants of such compounds at a distance based on Mueller matrix spectroscopy.

Distant detection of chemical and or biological warfare materials and contaminates CBs is vitally important to joint force and homeland security operations. Once the presence of a CB is detected at a location preventive measures may be taken prior to entering the area. Intensive research is being conducted to develop systems that are able to perform rapid and reliable detection and identification of CBs at safe standoff distances.

In general CB standoff detectors receive electromagnetic energy radiated from a target and attempt to identify substances present at the target from characteristics of the radiated energy. Some systems are passive and rely solely on detection of target luminescence and or absorption emission spectra in the presence of ambient electromagnetic energy. Other systems actively probe a target with electromagnetic beams and analyze scattering radiant spectra to identify the substances present. While CB detection systems using electromagnetic energy ranging from terahertz and long wave infrared bands to ultraviolet have been tried middle infrared MIR light has been found to be particularly useful since spectral bands lying in the MIR region can be found in which there are distinctive absorption spectra for CB molecular structures the so called MIR fingerprint and in which the natural atmosphere is essentially transparent. A variety of MIR CB sensing systems use scattered light to determine properties of CBs at a distance. While some systems measure only the intensity of backscattered light others also attempt to collect and analyze polarization states to better characterize CB molecular structures.

One technique to obtain polarization data from backscattered light is differential absorption Mueller matrix spectroscopy DIAMMS . A DIAMMS based CB detection system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 060 710 issued on May 9 2000 to Carrieri et al. the 710 patent incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth. In general a DIAMMS system undertakes identification of unknown substances at a distance by probing a target surface or an aerosol cloud with at least two polarization modulated middle infrared laser MIR beams. One beam the excitation beam is tuned to a known absorption extinction wavelength for substances of interest to drive it into molecular vibrational resonance and a second reference beam is tuned to a nearby offset wavelength at which there is essentially no absorption by substances of interest and thus nil resonant molecular vibrations. A detector collects the backscattered polarization modulated radiation or scattergrams for both beams. The scattergrams are time varying waveforms which can be Fourier transformed to extract complex frequency components from which excitation and reference Mueller matrices can be derived. A differential Mueller matrix may then be calculated from the excitation and reference matrices and mathematically analyzed to compare it with differential Mueller matrix models of known substances.

Improvements in CB identification by differential absorption Mueller matrix spectroscopy have been desired. In particular there is a need for a robust reliable field ready selective CB standoff identification system.

In accordance with one aspect an Optical Switching Device OSD is employed to perform photopolarimeter beam switching functions in one or more embodiments of DIAMMS detection systems according to the present invention. In accordance with another aspect a photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection system provides a plurality of laser beams a plurality of spectrum analyzers and an OSD. The OSD provides means for configuring the system into a first mode of operation in which a first laser beam is directed to a first spectrum analyzer and a second laser beam is directed to a beam terminator a means for configuring the system into a second mode of operation in which the first laser beam is directed to a beam terminator and the second laser beam is directed to a second spectrum analyzer means for configuring the system into a third mode of operation in which the second laser beam is directed to a beam terminator and the first laser beam is directed to a backscatter surface a means for configuring the system into a fourth mode of operation in which the first laser beam is directed to a beam terminator and the second laser beam is directed to a backscatter surface and a means for configuring the system into a fifth mode of operation in which each of the laser beams are directed to a beam terminator.

In accordance with another aspect a computer program includes instructions for operating a photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection system having an optical switching device a plurality of laser beams and a plurality of spectrum analyzers. The program instructions include instructions to configure the optical switching device for a first mode of operation in which a first laser beam is directed to a first spectrum analyzer and a second laser beam is directed to a beam terminator. The program instructions also include instructions to configure the optical switching device for a second mode of operation in which the first laser beam is directed to a beam terminator and the second laser beam is to a second spectrum analyzer. The program instructions also include instructions to configure the optical switching device for a third mode of operation in which the second laser beam is directed to a beam terminator and the first laser beam is directed to a backscatter surface. The program instructions also include instructions to configure the optical switching device for a fourth mode of operation in which the first laser beam is directed to a beam terminator and the second laser beam is directed to a backscatter surface. The program instructions also include instructions to configure the optical switching device for a fifth mode of operation in which each of the laser beams are directed to a beam terminator.

In yet another aspect according to an embodiment of the present invention the program instructions include instructions to provide a graphical user interface GUI . The GUI may include icons representing one or more components of the multiple beam photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection system. The GUI also may include objects to receive control inputs from an operator. The GUI also may include a display of status information for the one or more components of the multiple beam photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection system as well as a display of measurement data provided by the photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection system.

The polarization state of a light beam can be completely represented by a 1 4 vector known as the Stokes vector. When a light beam is scattered by a body or changed by an optical element the Stokes vector s of the light beam undergoes a linear transformation to a new Stokes vector s . This transformation can be represented by a 4 4 matrix called the Mueller matrix M i.e. s Ms. By definition s and s are parameterized in real terms of complex amplitude and phase of the beam s electric field E field orthogonal components. Accordingly since the Stokes vector contains all the polarization information for a beam of light the Mueller matrix contains all the polarization information in an elastic scattering process. Moreover M may be used to derive physical and geometrical properties to uniquely characterize S where S has a complex refractive index N i and polar azimuth angle orientation dependencies and respectively relative to the normal vector n of infinitesimal surface element dS and incident electromagnetic wave vector k.

A Jones complex matrix J Pauli real matrices representation of the Mueller matrix real M may be expressed in this form 

In connection with the present invention a distant scatterer surface S may comprise a disseminated threat agent CB aerosol plume or a CB substance deposited on land. A typical scenario may include i an ambient aerosol plume as generated from a detonated projectile or as released from an aircraft and ii the aftermath surface contamination coverage when contaminated rain deposits and settles onto within terrain e.g. soil sand or synthetic inhomogeneous dielectrics e.g. asphalt concrete .

In general in the preferred embodiment according to the present invention two polarization modulated continuous wave laser beams are tuned to nearby middle infrared wavelengths in the region of absorption bands of the molecules of interest i.e. 9.1 12.1 m . These two beams are alternately transmitted in the form of a symmetric square wave train . . . L L . . . to a suspected surface contaminant or airborne aerosol analyte S . L and L are preferably emitted by regular and isotopic COlaser waveguide cavities. Switching between beams is accomplished through a feedback controlled optomechanical switching device . The sent beams interrogate and target constituent CB molecules of surface mass S in the following manner absorption of E field by beam L referred to as the analytic probe laser beam drives a bonded backbone primary group of threat agent molecules into a fundamental rock stretch or wag resonance vibration mode while the E field of alternate beam L referred to as the reference probe laser beam is totally scattered since it is detuned completely off all absorption cross sections of molecular target thus relaxing the molecular vibration resonance state. Furthermore the E fields of beams L and L are each polarization modulated at separate frequencies in the range of 30 100 KHz in order to obtain two Mueller matrix responses from which a differential absorption Mueller matrix response M from excited CB molecules is derived L vibration resonance mode part laser beam scattering part absorption relative to L off resonance relaxation mode all laser beam scattering . Polarization modulation actions on alternate incident and backscattering beams which are performed independently on . . . L L . . . and . . . L L . . . make possible the electronic measurement of a unique discriminate of the analyte i.e. a susceptible group of differential absorption Mueller matrix elements M.

The term polarization modulation is used in this disclosure in an optical encoding context. It entails the use of optical stress birefringence elements to modulate the probe interrogation laser beams sent to surface S as well as the backscattered beams received from surface S. This is accomplished in the preferred embodiment by means of two photoelastic modulation PEM operations induced on . . . L L . . . and . . . L L . . . beams via stress birefringent crystals. The PEM modulators preferably employ infrared transparent salt ZnSe crystals with anti reflection coatings on the front and back planer surfaces and other IR materials including a single crystal Ge that is cleaved polished and coated as would be known to those of skill in the art . An oscillatory birefringence is induced at opposite ends of the cleaved crystal across its symmetry plane. In the preferred embodiment a bonded piezoelectric transducer element T drives the ZnSe slab at opposite ends into its natural mechanical resonant frequency. With the crystal in harmonic mechanical resonance the components of the E fields of laser beams L and L that are aligned along the slow or extraordinary axis eo axis and center of crystal aperture experience a periodic phase delay in transmission expressed as cos t where is the maximum amplitude of phase retardation in the beam s traversing electromagnetic wave and the maximum compression of crystal cos t is the oscillatory phase delay and is frequency of the transducer element driving the crystal s compression relaxation action reaction. There is essentially no delay in the orthogonal components of the E fields of beams traversing the fast or ordinary axis of ZnSe crystal o axis which is perpendicular to eo axis of crystalline structure i.e. 0. This non linear property of the crystal is called stress birefringence. Accordingly orthogonal components of the E field of an incident beam linearly polarized at 45 to the PEM i.e. exactly between eo and o axes of the crystal add vectorally at the ZnSe air exit plane producing polarization states that sweep in a continuum from left to right through linear elliptical and circular states at the frequency viz photoelastic modulation PEM action . Thus surface target S experiences probe beams . . . L L . . . with this periodic polarization continuum property. The backscattering response or echo in . . . L L . . . is furthermore polarization modulated a second time at a distinct frequency by a separate PEM centered on axis in a receiver end that includes optical elements with a detector sensor at the focus.

This combination of polarization modulations on incident beams and their backscattered radiances provides an electromagnetic encoding that makes possible a simultaneous measurement of M elements of S as described below.

Embodiments of DIAMMS based photopolarimetric lidar LIght Detection And Ranging LIDAR systems according to the present invention preferably include a linear polarizer Ge photoelastic modulator ZnSe mated optic pair POL PEM Polarizer Photoelastic Modulator mounted on a computer controlled precision rotary stage which is positioned to intercept . . . L L . . . just after that beam train exits OSD . Systems further comprise another PEM POL pair also mounted on a precision computer controlled rotary stage to intercept the backscattered radiance of the incident beams in the sensor s collector receiver. The optical order of linear polarizer and photoelastic modulation optics is reversed in the collector receiver. The POL PEM PEM POL transmitter receiver optical group or photopolarimeter with laser source beams L and L is called a Mueller matrix spectrometer MMS not illustrated . The integrated electro optic optomechanical apparatus and ancillary electronics together with the software subsystems described below is referred to as a DIAMMS Photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection system.

An MIR detector D also not illustrated is positioned at the focus of the MMS receiver. Detector D preferably comprises a liquid Ncooled HgCdTe semiconductor detector chip 1 1 mm typically . The detector D produces a photocurrent referred to as a scattergram provided that both ZnSe crystals of MMS are under active and proper transduction via their respective tensor T PEM circuits. This scattergram product manifests an intensity modulation of the form 

In embodiments according to the present invention a digital data acquisition system is preferred for acquiring all elements Mas such directly from the full temporal scattergram waveform I . The digital data acquisition system preferably includes a high speed serial vector network analyzer that samples I at 800 KHz or beyond to eliminate aliasing .

There are 15 modulo 2 normalized differential M elements M M M M produced by the photopolarimeter with the photopolarimetric lidar s switched beams transmit and received wave trains . . . L L . . . where M and Mdesignate the Mueller elements on resonance analytic beam L and off resonance reference beam L of analyte respectively and i j1 2 3 4 1 1. A sample of these data sets for select crystalline amino acids and sugar compounds in wafer form the building blocks of proteins and precursors of biological warfare agents that the photopolarimetric lidar must ultimately detect is provided in Table 3 of the 701 patent.

Success in identifying the chemical biological CB target S via pattern recognition from these DIAMMS data sets requires mapping at least one normalized susceptible member element from the full field of 15 in onto the target S with sufficient signal to noise ratio. The detection uniqueness picture becomes clearer however when more of the available 15 member DIAMMS elements show susceptible behavior to target analyte CB agent simulant contaminant and target are synonymous as prompted by the polarization modulated probe beams . . . L L . . . causing the excite then relax molecular vibration activity in targeted molecules.

Several neural network models were built and trained validated tested against susceptible elements in the analyte s unique Mueller domain space. Repeated training of a best performance network model yielded an optimum weight matrix product. This weight matrix is essentially a collection of all parallel interneuron strengths between architectural layers of the network and may be deployed in the photopolarimetric lidar system as a passive pattern recognition filter accordingly. In particular any mapping of real time preprocessed DIAMMS data fed through the neural network s weight matrix and onto the Mueller domain space of analyte would cue an alarm condition against that analytic compound. Some target CBs will need less than all differential absorption Mueller matrix elements to be identified. Embodiments of systems according to the present invention may be configured to extract only those elements needed to identify certain target CBs.

In general OSD interfaces to a robust networked computer host system via standard I O interfaces such as a pair of RS 232 serial ports SP and SP not illustrated which are positioned on an electronics expansion box not illustrated supporting bidirectional computer OSD data transfers. SP and SP provide status and control that monitor and control a series of precision logical translation and shunted actions on flat infrared mirror optics inside OSD as described below. Although RS 232 interfaces are employed in this embodiment other communications protocols and interfaces such as USB RS 485 RS422 IEEE1394 Firewire Ethernet WiFi and the like may be implemented in alternative embodiments.

As shown in and a preferred embodiment of an OSD includes a housing that provides an optically sealed enclosure through which there are provided a number of input and output ports for passage of MIR light. Housing is preferably cube shaped and orthogonal and substantially rigid inner surfaces to enable mounting and precision alignment of optical elements actuators and related components. In the preferred embodiment housing is constructed of a material such as black anodized aluminum or plexiglass which is opaque in the MIR range and is also transparent to visible light so that the operation and alignment of internal components can be observed. OSD includes an output port not illustrated that provides an optical path to a beam terminator and an output port also not illustrated that provides an optical path to a power detector head . Beam terminator is an energy absorbing terminator for incident beam L beam terminator is an energy absorbing terminator for incident beam L and beam terminator is an energy absorbing terminator for L and L. Translation stage is a rectilinear translation stage driven by stepper motor and connected to a controller indexer unit such as a Daedal model MC2000 controller indexer unit with encoder not shown .

Ports and are input ports for laser beams L and L respectively port and are output ports for terminating beams L and L into energy absorbing terminators also called beam dumps Beam terminator and beam terminator via mirrors mirror and mirror respectively ports and are output ports for directing beams L and L into optical spectrum analyzers and external to OSD via mirrors mirror and mirror and mirror respectively. Port is an output port for directing beams L or L on an optical axis toward a suspect target S via linearly indexed mirror or through a quarter wave plate retarder then through transmitter POL PEM external to OSD and not illustrated . Power detector head is positioned on axis above a beam splitter which is a coated optic that reflects roughly 4 of an incident beam at 90 and transmits the rest armatures and are mechanical actuators that fold infrared flat mirrors mirror and in and out of beam paths L into beam terminator L into beam terminator and L or L into beam terminator respectively. Translation stage is a rectilinear translation stage controlling the mirror cradle carries linearly indexed mirrors and driven by stepper motor connected to controller indexer unit with encoder. Stepper motor precisely moves translation stage and mirror cradle mounted thereon together with attached mirrors and by a number of small indexed steps.

Positional status information from all moving optics is continuously updated by obtaining data from proximity sensors and mechanical switches integrated with or attached to armatures and and to translation stage controlled by stepper motor and its associated driver electronics. This status feature of OSD rapidly senses fault conditions in the running configuration of the photopolarimetric lidar system and sets a flag related to the fault condition. Should a flag be set the current photopolarimetric lidar system operation will pause. An operator is then alerted and informed of the fault situation via a coded string or a message displayed on a computer screen. Appropriate input to correct the fault by the operator resets this flag and switching operations may commence after satisfactory systems checks are concluded. Fault conditions typically include detection of misaligned internal stationary optics stray moving optics and or disorders external to OSD such as laser cavity overheating beam instability power disruption etc.

Embodiments of the present invention preferably include software. Such software is stored on a computer readable medium which may include an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method executable on a personal computer. The software may comprise one or more separate programs. The personal computer may incorporate one or more processors memory and I O devices that are communicatively coupled via wired or wireless wifi interfaces to peripheral devices. Such peripheral devices perform operations to synchronize and automate the operation of a photopolarimetric lidar system including i photopolarimeter beam switching functions carried out by an OSD including control automation and photopolarimeter maintenance MMS optical configuration protocols iii photopolarimetric lidar system scattergram acquisition preprocessing operations and iv neural network pattern recognition decision making. The software also preferably includes a graphical user interface to accept input data from an operator and to display system status and output results.

In the preferred embodiment according to the present invention menu scripts from compiled C software modules are used to handle OSD control automation and photopolarimeter maintenance. Specifically widgets are displayed on the computer to facilitate 1 calibration and self alignment of MMS transmitter 2 logistics that maintain integrity of switching of beams and dwell timing of wave train and 3 vigilant failsafe operating mode status i.e. the OSD actuator and controller will dump beams L and L into appropriate beam terminators whenever an interrupt or error status is triggered by one or several OSD proximity sensors.

The infrared beams L and L are preferably generated by waveguide cavities containing standard and isotopic COcontinuous wave cw laser systems such as the Coherent GEM Select 50 with Brewster windows to provide horizontally polarized outputs. While other types of lasers may be employed the COlaser is preferred because of its efficiency in the mid IR range. Beams L and L are directed through multiple ports and of OSD as illustrated in and . Ports and preferably provide 9.5 mm diameter clear apertures. Output ports are also provided but not specifically illustrated for directing beams to beam terminator and power detector head . Other input output ports may also be provided in OSD as needed. Traffic through all input output ports may be controlled by systematic electro mechanical actions that move folded optical mirrors and and linearly indexed mirrors and into and out of alignment with beams L and L in conjunction with stationary mirrors and . Although a variety of mirrors of different sizes and types may be employed in alternative embodiments infrared mirrors residing inside OSD according to the present invention are preferably 25.4 mm diameter and 1 10 wave flat.

Stationary beam splitter deflects a small percentage preferably 4 reflectance with anti reflection coatings on both surfaces of L or L sent to target surface S for power monitoring. Power monitoring takes place continuously whenever L and L are energized. The energy of beam L is required to be close to that of L yet outside that absorption band of analyte for which L was tuned. Moreover by definition the energy of reference beam L should be exclusive of other resonance vibrational bands of the targeted analyte for detection or any sharp absorption moiety by an interferent scatterer that partially comprises mass S inside the irradiating beam s cross section.

Choreography of switching modes in the preferred embodiment according to the present invention as illustrated in and is discussed next.

In DIAMMS measurement protocols according to the present invention analytic beam L is tuned in wavelength to match a peak absorption band exhibited by the CB aerosol surface contaminant i.e. the analyte present at the beam targeted surface S under irradiation. In general the wavelength lies in the range of 9.1 12.1 m. Tuning is performed by gratings within the COlaser using P and R branch transitional assignments. Amplitude stabilization of the beam via inspection of its power at power detector head e.g. follows.

Backscattered radiance emanating from the irradiated area volume comprising S is collected over a wide aperture field of view collimated and then reduced 10 via the photopolarimetric lidar system receiver s Cassegrain beam condenser unit 25.4 cm primary aperture. This condensed collimated beam radiance emanating from S is then polarization modulated a second time at frequency 39 KHz as it passes through the receiver ZnSe modulating optic PEM and converted back into a linear polarization state after traversing the attached POL optic. The POL of this mated receiver PEM POL optical pair effectively modulates the intensity E of the exiting laser beams backscattered radiances at the photopolarimetric lidar system s photoconductive detector chip surface and the subsequent electronic acquisition of scattergrams is performed. Driving the PEMs at these modulation frequencies allows the measurement of 9 independent Mueller matrix elements in the home POL PEM PEM POL orientation of Mueller matrix spectrometer MMS . The home position is defined by the horizontal axis of linear polarization in both POL optics they are mounted 45 to their respective PEM optic . The remaining non degenerate M elements may be obtained by permuting the MMS s POL PEM PEM POL optical configuration three separate and distinct times from its original home optical configuration position in this sequence clockwise 45 in the receiver PEM POL optical group clockwise 45 in the receiver POL PEM optical group and finally counter clockwise 45 in the transmitter POL PEM optical group.

A peak retardation of 2.404 radians by both transmitter and receiver PEMs for each wavelength of L and L facilitates the separation of distinct Mueller element assignments in the total intensity of scattergram I of backscattered radiation recorded at the sensor s photoconductive chip and the subsequent extraction of M elements from this scattergram I.

To configure the OSD for Case MM mode mirror cradle translates on translation stage to Position LP as shown in and . Armature positions mirror into the path of L for beam termination through into beam terminator and armature positions mirror out of the path of L allowing L to pass through to indexed mirror . L is directed by mirror through beam splitter where a portion of the beam is deflected to power detector head for power measurement and to port where it exits through retarder which converts horizontal polarization into circular polarization. The circularly polarized L traverses the POL PEM optical pair of the MMS transmitter and passes onward into object space to backscatterer S.

The backscattering M elements at this reference wavelength of beam L are acquired in the same way as in Case MM. Recall that 2.404 in MMS transmitter and receiver PEMs must be maintained between switched beams L and L. Because L and L are at different wavelengths some tuning is generally required to maintain . This is provided through a feedback loop mechanism with inputs from each of the PEM phase controller circuits. These data together with the M elements measured on resonance from Case MM are stored into computer memory and recalled for construction of the important Mueller detection domain of targeted analytic backscatterer S.

Another aspect of this embodiment involves OSD automation and control in relation to sensor protocols processing the photopolarimetric lidar system s data output product and providing CB alarms or other end results. A computer platform serves these important functions OSD electro mechanical switching of beams permutation of configurations of MMS POL PEM PEM POL DIAMMS data acquisition gated scattergram acquisition preprocessing alarms neural network pattern recognition per Ref. 12 and other ancillary operations.

A computer command and control C system to meet the needs of embodiments according to the present invention preferably include dual tiered mother boards 800 MHz bus each supporting an Intel Pentium 4 CPU 3 GHz Cache 1 MB and Double Data Rate Memory 512 MB at 400 MHz USB 2.0 ports IEEE 1394 Firewire Ethernet 10 100 ports and ATA133 MHz Western Digital Caviar hard drives 20 GB . Microsoft XP Professional Service Pack 2 Visual Studios 2005 and C Version 6.0 are operating system programming environment and code development language respectively. Remote communications between the polarization lidar and computer are conducted via a Local Area Network LAN which is accessible via a 2.4 GHz 54 Mbps wireless broadband router. In particular the use of a wireless network interface will facilitate deployment in the field of one or more remote tactical lidar systems operated by a computer command and control C system positioned at a standoff distance. Other hardware and or software platforms having at least comparable processing memory and I O capabilities may likewise be employed in alternative embodiments.

A second region in the center of window and to left which may likewise be implemented as a graphics box or as a separate window provides Status information including the following beams switching output Laser Laser Output location of mirror cradle inside OSD Translation Position and optical orientation of MMS transmitter receiver POL PEM PEM POL optics Trans. PEM and Recv. PEM .

A third region is defined in the lower left area of window Region monitors M element measurement activity console selections per optical POL PEM PEM POL orientation of Mueller matrix spectrometer MMS 4 4 array waiting time per change of MMS orientation Wait sec number of M elements currently measured Num Rec measurement options on collecting the 16 M elements RUN ALL 16 elements requires 4 MMS permutations of POL PEM PEM POL optics or a subset of elements RUN SELECTED any combination of 4 optical permutations of POL PEM PEM POL . Middle right interactive numerical data display console of M elements at analytic L and reference L beams wavelengths with time stamps DATA COLLECTED Cf Cases MM MM and .

A fourth region is defined in the Lower right of GUI window . Fourth region provides radio buttons for calibrating beams L Tune Laser and L Tune Laser to proper resonance reference wavelengths Cf Cases W W and to start a measurement sequence GO and to end an experiment Exit Program .

Software modules are executed through dialog scripts as code objects. There are presently 8 functionality classes of C objects coded modules features debugging and re optimization tasks are often updated described as follows.

CDIAMMSApp. This class is the application file containing data objects used in construction of the main sensor dialog box CDIAMMSDlg. It manages overall OSD operations and generally all sensor operations through a viewer with objects as shown in .

CDIAMMSDlg. This is the main sensor application class which spawns a 580 pixels high by 430 pixels wide GUI that is managed via operator input options. Dialog corresponding to and protocol are open here with GUI updates as are sequences of each M elements measurement Cases MM MM corresponding to . This class also portrays how the M elements are presented in relation to parameters of the experimental run per . These objects include monitor control status of the photopolarimetric lidar shutter system as it is deployed for direct measurement of element M which involves the reciprocating mechanical shutter that chops backscattered radiances by laser beams L and L just before the lidar receiver s focal plane HgCdTe detector chip MMS transmit receive POL PEM PEM POL optical orientations Four distinct orientations for both optic pairs are required for a complete measurement of the full 16 element Mueller matrix field and the OSD M elements data collection modes of and . Class CDIAMMSDlg is multi threaded such that information in the GUI widgets operator to lidar interface is retained. This information is embedded in subroutines which control scattergram acquisitions the M elements processed from those scattergrams and the individual M elements graphical display. Safety precautions are also implemented in this class e.g. it is forbidden to call calibration routines Cases W W and when an M elements measurement sequence is in progress Cases MM MM and . Furthermore a state machine was incorporated herein that constantly monitors the running status of sensor and determines which GUI widgets to gray out per operation mode of photopolarimeter. The operator is prevented from accidentally triggering a faulty systems operation or initiating an unsafe illogical sensor command. Inputs from operator to GUI widgets are translated into objects while command reaction data flow is moderated by CDIAMMSDlg. For example the OSD operations as depicted in and are scripted via CDIAMMSDlg as is each of the MMS s four PEM POL PEM POL permutations required for measurement of select M elements as discussed earlier. In the latter situation suppose you are interested in measuring 6 of 16 M elements. CDIAMMSDlg prompts the user to input those 6 elements of interest and determines then executes the least of 4 PEM POL PEM POL permutations necessary for measuring this subset of M. These data are then stored into files and graphed onto computer screen via class CMMatrixDlg during the run of sensor if that is requested.

CSerialPort. This class is responsible for the initialization of communications COM between computer and OSD . Bus settings and management of bus OSD data I O are conducted here. Commands sent from all sensor code classes are passed through this bus as are the accompanying responses. This hand shaking is moderated by a DSP controller external to the computer which parses data objects in select photopolarimeter operating modes.

DSPReader. This class assumes all behavior of the CSerialPort class COM port of bus is set at 9600 BAUD 8 bit no parity and one stop bit . It contains specific routines used to parse responses received from the DSP mentioned above.

CLaserComPort. This class is used to enable or disable the OSD via DTR communications events i.e. during wavelength selection runs of photopolarimeter Cases W W and calibration of polarization lidar data acquisition system and data collection modes of MMS Cases MM MM and .

CStepperMotor. This class is used to encapsulate behavior of the stepper motor component of OSD all Cases and . It communicates via a COM bus 8 bits no parity and 2 stop bits and tracks the instantaneous position of mirrors and affixed to cradle via stepper motor .

CLaserCalibrationDlg. This class which is spawned from CDIAMMSDlg is used to prompt laser beams L and L when the photopolarimeter is in calibration or wavelength selection modes per and respectively. It produces a dialog box that allows tuning of each laser beam to an appropriate molecular resonance and non resonance condition of analyte S i.e. aerosol or surface contaminant . Upon execution of CLaserCalibrationDlg a dialog box is presented whereby selecting wavelength energy of L resonance tuned and L reference tuned is facilitated. It presents a complete list of all allowable P and R branch transitional lines by the respective waveguide CO isotope and regular laser. Beam energies are grating tuned and power stabilized by the operator. Wavelength or beam energy data entries are then stored in computer RAM for later sensor operation logistics such as selecting sub M elements per experimental run and the labeling of measured data from that run into a header .

CMMatrixDlg. This class constructs a layered GUI dialog box consisting of 16 individual panes representing each of the M elements measured at the end of a test sequence and . This graphic of sixteen images displaying all M elements of backscatterer S is 105 105 pixels high and wide and may be presented in real time concurrent to the current experimental run or from archived data images called from a database .

When executed by the sensor s computer network coded modules above produce the GUI of from which all OSD DIAMMS operations are managed. The top half of screen depicts the DIAMMS transmitter section with OSD at center top see and POL PEM at center bottom and lasers spectrum analyzers to the sides. Activation of beams and status of OSD optics is continually monitored at center left of screen. Here in the Output Enable Disable window is where status of . . . L L . . . exiting the OSD through output Port is revealed e.g. alert of current beam activity . The location of mirror cradle inside the OSD is revealed in radio button Translation Position while POL PEM PEM POL orientation of MMS Cases MM and MM and is inferred from Trans. PEM and Rec. PEM instrument buttons. The lower left console of provides information regarding 1 status of an open experimental run top bar window 2 M elements available for measurement per orientation of MMS 3 waiting time per configuring a POL PEM PEM POL orientation of MMS Wait bar in seconds 4 accumulative number of M elements measured in current experimental run Num Rec bar 5 options on collecting elements in that run RUN ALL implies all 16 elements will be collected 4 optical permutations of POL PEM PEM POL are required here 6 sample data collection from 16 M elements or a subset thereof Run Selected one or a combination of optical permutations of POL PEM PEM POL not to exceed 4 will result here and 7 means to halt experimental run which puts the OSD into park or failsafe mode FSI . The lower right console of shows a numerical display of M elements data taken at both analytic L and reference L beam wavelengths with time stamps Cases MM MM . Finally the lower right panel of GUI portrays radio buttons for calibration and tuning of beams L and L pertaining to Cases W W Tune Laser and to the molecular resonance and non resonance wavelengths and stabilize begin experiment Go and a graceful exit of experiment with return of optics to the MMS home position Exit Program .

In operation a typical OSD timing sequence enabling one dual beam M elements data collection cycle i.e. production of 9 simultaneous matrix elements i.e. the individual outputs of the sensor s 9 channel phase sensitive data acquisition system DAS from 1 of 4 MMS configurations of POL PEM PEM POL is summarized in Table 2. The command 1 GH 5 CR interpreted as GO HOME CR carriage return sent to OSD via a microprocessor microcontroller on a separate electronics board integrated into the sensor s DAS translates mirror cradle to its home or neutral optical position through bus SP. The translation stage driving mirror cradle is interfaced to a Deadal stepper motor controller with encoder and . Command 1D 214750 CR is interpreted as MOVE FORWARD or BACKWARD a pre select number of calibrated steps 214750 from mirror cradle s neutral or home position. Mirrors and on mirror cradle intercept L and L beam paths respectively and place them on optical axis of port toward the backscattering target S. The switching between beams permutation of MMS and collection of M elements can be accomplished in as little 4 s.

During this timeframe in which measurement of the 9 M elements takes place accuracy in the OSD armature and reciprocated mirror cradle movements discussed above must be maintained and other functions mentioned above external to OSD that are dependent on its beam switching action. These include maintaining the required 2.404 phase retardation of beams through feedback by the PEM s controller circuits the synchronous gating of scattergram streams into digital or analog data acquisition channels the electronic transfer storage of M elements into computer memory and the display of these data onto computer screen. Periods of dwell in beams . . . L L . . . may however last upwards of a few minutes to perhaps an hour for laboratory experiments where time series acquisition of M elements is desired or necessary. When resolving the dynamic relationships of M elements by aerosols disseminated inside a chamber at lengthy time intervals for instance. 

How data is presented from a typical DIAMMS run is portrayed in where each sector of the 4 4 M array is populated via the Data Collected portal shown in the middle right section of GUI . The coordinates ordinate and abscissa of all M elements graphed as shown are inclusive of data set members M M M M For illustrative purposes displays the susceptible M elements of crystalline mannose and a racemic mixture of tartaric acid targets S . Size of the susceptible M elements as shown is bounded by standard deviation on respective data set members M M and M M . Generally in embodiments according to the present invention these identification domain components with standard deviations i.e. the intersection of horizontal and vertical solid lines in grids of provide decreased area with increased precision of measurement decreased accumulative error of photopolarimeter optics i.e. alignment and stability of PEMs and increased signal to noise ratio in the sensor s detector element photoconductive HgCdTe chip with amplifier .

The centroid of each domain component i.e. cross hairs has coordinates where the bracketed entity refers to the time averaged experimental value per set M element measurement. Preferred selection rules for ascertaining an analyte s unique identification domain components are as follows.

Selection rules are used to assure distinctness in the same Mueller matrix element data sets on then off molecular resonance beam backscattering from the analyte by . . . L L . . . as measured by the polarization lidar sensor. Selection Rule 1 . Select the same Mueller matrix element sets that move in opposite direction on then off molecular resonance beam backscattering from the analyte via . . . L L . . . i.e. check for an anti correlation coefficient between like data sets as Selection Rule 2 .

As shown in each display for a Mueller Matrix element data set includes an x axis component represented by a horizontal dotted line that shows on resonance backscattering beam L and y axis component represented by a vertical dotted line that shows off resonance backscattering beam L . The on and off resonance components are bounded by solid lines representing the standard deviation.

Embodiments of an OSD according to the present invention may be integrated into a future prototype Chemical Biological defense photopolarimetric lidar standoff detection system based on differential absorption Mueller matrix spectroscopy DIAMMS . The OSD embodies logistics feedback to maintain 1 switching integrity 2 a failsafe modus operandi such that beams L and L are internally confined inside the OSD whenever a systems error is identified during lidar runtime and 3 synchronization of switching action to vital external functions including operation of two photoelastic modulators to provide photoelastic modulation of beams retardation adjustment in the PEMs per beam wavelength in . . . L L . . . data acquisition digital or analog of scattergrams and graphical presentation of Mueller matrix data element processed from those scattergram waveforms.

Improved use of polarized infrared scattering is achieved in systems that incorporate embodiments according to the present invention. Moreover such systems may be used to generate a database of susceptible domains via DIAMMS specific to a class of CB compounds using significantly less complex in hardware i.e. a MMS with fixed wavelength lasers stationary POL PEM PEM POL optics and or only one transmitter POL PEM or receiver PEM POL optical pair software reduced automation and data handling processing operations and firmware less control systems checks and electromechanical and electro optic manipulations modalities.

