---

title: Systems and methods for real-time dynamic simulation of uninterruptible power supply solutions and their control logic systems
abstract: A system for real-time modeling of uninterruptible power supply (UPS) control elements protecting an electrical system is disclosed. The system includes a data acquisition component, a power analytics server and a client terminal. The data acquisition component acquires real-time data output from the electrical system. The power analytics server is comprised of a virtual system modeling engine, an analytics engine and a UPS transient stability simulation engine. The virtual system modeling engine generates predicted data output for the electrical system. The analytics engine monitors real-time data output and predicted data output of the electrical system. The UPS transient stability simulation engine stores and processes patterns observed from the real-time data output and utilizes a user-defined UPS control logic model to forecast an aspect of the interaction between UPS control elements and the electrical system subjected to a simulated contingency event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07844440&OS=07844440&RS=07844440
owner: EDSA Micro Corporation
number: 07844440
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070709
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 819 024 filed Jul. 7 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 806 938 filed Jul. 11 2006. This application also claims priority as a Continuation In Part under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 734 709 filed Apr. 12 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods for Performing Automatic Real Time Harmonics Analyses for use in Real Time Power Analytics of an Electrical Power Distribution System which in turn claims priority as a Continuation In Part under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 717 378 filed Mar. 12 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods for Real Time Protective Device Evaluation in an Electrical Power Distribution System and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 792 175 filed Apr. 12 2006. The disclosures of the above identified applications are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in full.

The present invention relates generally to computer modeling and management of systems and more particularly to computer simulation techniques with real time system monitoring and optimization of electrical system performance.

Computer models of complex systems enable improved system design development and implementation through techniques for off line simulation of the system operation. That is system models can be created that computers can operate in a virtual environment to determine design parameters. All manner of systems can be modeled designed and operated in this way including machinery factories electrical power and distribution systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems and the like. Such simulation techniques have resulted in reduced development costs and superior operation.

Design and production processes have benefited greatly from such computer simulation techniques and such techniques are relatively well developed but such techniques have not been applied in real time e.g. for real time operational monitoring and management. In addition predictive failure analysis techniques do not generally use real time data that reflect actual system operation. Greater efforts at real time operational monitoring and management would provide more accurate and timely suggestions for operational decisions and such techniques applied to failure analysis would provide improved predictions of system problems before they occur. With such improved techniques operational costs could be greatly reduced.

For example mission critical electrical systems e.g. for data centers or nuclear power facilities must be designed to ensure that power is always available. Thus the systems must be as failure proof as possible and many layers of redundancy must be designed in to ensure that there is always a backup in case of a failure. It will be understood that such systems are highly complex a complexity made even greater as a result of the required redundancy. Computer design and modeling programs allow for the design of such systems by allowing a designer to model the system and simulate its operation. Thus the designer can ensure that the system will operate as intended before the facility is constructed.

Once the facility is constructed however the design is typically only referred to when there is a failure. In other words once there is failure the system design is used to trace the failure and take corrective action however because such design are so complex and there are many interdependencies it can be extremely difficult and time consuming to track the failure and all its dependencies and then take corrective action that doesn t result in other system disturbances.

Moreover changing or upgrading the system can similarly be time consuming and expensive requiring an expert to model the potential change e.g. using the design and modeling program. Unfortunately system interdependencies can be difficult to simulate making even minor changes risky.

For example no reliable means exists for simulating and predicting uninterruptible power supply UPS protection and operation modes to maintain stability and or recover from events and disturbances without violating power system operational constraints. These predictions are critical to the design of power distribution systems that can meet the power demands and maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserves using robustly designed UPS solutions to handle the ongoing changes in demand and disturbances to the system due to various contingencies.

Conventional systems use a rigid simulation model that does not take the actual power system alignment and aging effects into consideration when computing predicted electrical values. This makes it difficult if not impossible to reliably simulate the interaction of UPS controls with a power system network model that is reflective of the real time operational condition of the power distribution network.

A model that can align itself in real time with the actual power system configuration and ages with the facility is critical to obtaining predictions that are reflective of the ability of the power system s UPS solution to maintain the operational reliability and stability of the system when subjected to unexpected contingency conditions. Without real time synchronization and an aging ability predictions become of little value as they are no longer reflective of the actual facility status and may lead to false conclusions.

Systems and methods for real time modeling of uninterruptible power supply UPS control elements on an electrical system are disclosed.

In one aspect a system for real time modeling of uninterruptible power supply UPS control elements protecting an electrical system is disclosed. The system includes a data acquisition component a power analytics server and a client terminal. The data acquisition component is communicatively connected to a sensor configured to acquire real time data output from the electrical system. The power analytics server is communicatively connected to the data acquisition component and is comprised of a virtual system modeling engine an analytics engine and a UPS transient stability simulation engine.

The virtual system modeling engine is configured to generate predicted data output for the electrical system utilizing a virtual system model of the electrical system. The analytics engine is configured to monitor the real time data output and the predicted data output of the electrical system initiating a calibration and synchronization operation to update the virtual system model when a difference between the real time data output and the predicted data output exceeds a threshold. The UPS transient stability simulation engine is configured to store and process patterns observed from the real time data output and utilize a user defined UPS control logic model to forecast an aspect of the interaction between UPS control elements and the electrical system subjected to a simulated contingency event.

The client terminal is communicatively connected to the power analytics server and configured to allow a user to create the user defined UPS control logic model select the contingency event simulated and display a report of the forecasted aspects.

In another aspect a method for real time modeling of uninterruptible power supply UPS control elements protecting an electrical system is disclosed. A virtual system model of the electrical system is updated in response to real time data. A user defined UPS control logic model is created. A contingency to simulate is chosen. The interactions of the UPS control elements with the electrical system is simulated using the updated virtual system model and the user defined UPS control logic model operating under conditions that replicate the chosen contingency event. A report is generated that forecasts an aspect of the interaction between the UPS control elements and the electrical system.

In still another aspect a method for creating a user defined uninterruptible power supply UPS control logic model is disclosed. A control block diagram of the UPS control system to be modeled is obtained. UPS control elements to include in the UPS control logic model are identified by referencing the control block diagram. Interface variables for the identified UPS control elements are ascertained. The interface variables that require initialization are identified. The UPS control logic model is generated using the identified UPS control elements and the ascertained interface variables.

These and other features aspects and embodiments of the invention are described below in the section entitled Detailed Description. 

Systems and methods for real time modeling of uninterruptible power supply UPS control elements on an electrical system are disclosed. It will be clear however that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

As used herein a system denotes a set of components real or abstract comprising a whole where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component within the whole. Examples of systems include machinery factories electrical systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems data centers aircraft carriers and the like. An electrical system can designate a power generation and or distribution system that is widely dispersed i.e. power generation transformers and or electrical distribution components distributed geographically throughout a large region or bounded within a particular location e.g. a power plant within a production facility a bounded geographic area on board a ship etc. .

A network application is any application that is stored on an application server connected to a network e.g. local area network wide area network etc. in accordance with any contemporary client server architecture model and can be accessed via the network. In this arrangement the network application programming interface API resides on the application server separate from the client machine. The client interface would typically be a web browser e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER FIREFOX NETSCAPE etc that is in communication with the network application server via a network connection e.g. HTTP HTTPS RSS etc. .

The sensors are configured to provide output values for system parameters that indicate the operational status and or health of the monitored system . For example in an electrical power generation system the current output or voltage readings for the various components that comprise the power generation system is indicative of the overall health and or operational condition of the system. In one embodiment the sensors are configured to also measure additional data that can affect system operation. For example for an electrical power distribution system the sensor output can include environmental information e.g. temperature humidity etc. which can impact electrical power demand and can also affect the operation and efficiency of the power distribution system itself.

Continuing with in one embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in an analog format. For example electrical power sensor measurements e.g. voltage current etc. are sometimes conveyed in an analog format as the measurements may be continuous in both time and amplitude. In another embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in a digital format. For example the same electrical power sensor measurements may be taken in discrete time increments that are not continuous in time or amplitude. In still another embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in either an analog or digital format depending on the sampling requirements of the monitored system .

The sensors can be configured to capture output data at split second intervals to effectuate real time data capture. For example in one embodiment the sensors can be configured to generate hundreds of thousands of data readings per second. It should be appreciated however that the number of data output readings taken by a sensor may be set to any value as long as the operational limits of the sensor and the data processing capabilities of the data acquisition hub are not exceeded.

Still with each sensor is communicatively connected to the data acquisition hub via an analog or digital data connection . The data acquisition hub may be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connection is a hard wired physical data connection e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensor and the hub . In another embodiment the data connection is a wireless data connection. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub .

The data acquisition hub is configured to communicate real time data from the monitored system to the analytics server using a network connection . In one embodiment the network connection is a hardwired physical connection. For example the data acquisition hub may be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to a data server not shown that is communicatively connected via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling through the Internet and to the analytics server server. The analytics server being also communicatively connected with the Internet via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling . In another embodiment the network connection is a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi WLAN etc. . For example utilizing an 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format. In practice the network connection utilized is dependent upon the particular requirements of the monitored system .

Data acquisition hub can also be configured to supply warning and alarms signals as well as control signals to monitored system and or sensors and as described in more detail below.

As shown in in one embodiment the analytics server hosts an analytics engine virtual system modeling engine and several databases and . The virtual system modeling engine can e.g. be a computer modeling system such as described above. In this context however the modeling engine can be used to precisely model and mirror the actual electrical system. Analytics engine can be configured to generate predicted data for the monitored system and analyze difference between the predicted data and the real time data received from hub .

The real time data from hub can be passed to a comparison engine which can form part of analytics engine . Comparison engine can be configured to continuously compare the real time data with predicted values generated by simulation engine . Based on the comparison comparison engine can be further configured to determine whether deviations between the real time and the expected values exists and if so to classify the deviation e.g. high marginal low etc. The deviation level can then be communicated to decision engine which can also comprise part of analytics engine .

Decision engine can be configured to look for significant deviations between the predicted values and real time values as received from the comparison engine . If significant deviations are detected decision engine can also be configured to determine whether an alarm condition exists activate the alarm and communicate the alarm to Human Machine Interface HMI for display in real time via e.g. thin client . Decision engine can also be configured to perform root cause analysis for significant deviations in order to determine the interdependencies and identify the parent child failure relationships that may be occurring. In this manner parent alarm conditions are not drowned out by multiple children alarm conditions allowing the user operator to focus on the main problem at least at first.

Thus in one embodiment and alarm condition for the parent can be displayed via HMI along with an indication that processes and equipment dependent on the parent process or equipment are also in alarm condition. This also means that server can maintain a parent child logical relationship between processes and equipment comprising facility . Further the processes can be classified as critical essential non essential etc.

Decision engine can also be configured to determine health and performance levels and indicate these levels for the various processes and equipment via HMI . All of which when combined with the analytic capabilities of analytics engine allows the operator to minimize the risk of catastrophic equipment failure by predicting future failures and providing prompt informative information concerning potential predicted failures before they occur. Avoiding catastrophic failures reduces risk and cost and maximizes facility performance and up time.

Simulation engine operates on complex logical models of facility . These models are continuously and automatically synchronized with the actual facility status based on the real time data provided by hub . In other words the models are updated based on current switch status breaker status e.g. open closed equipment on off status etc. Thus the models are automatically updated based on such status which allows simulation engine to produce predicted data based on the current facility status. This in turn allows accurate and meaningful comparisons of the real time data to the predicted data.

Example models that can be maintained and used by server include power flow models used to calculate expected kW kVAR power factor values etc. short circuit models used to calculate maximum and minimum available fault currents protection models used to determine proper protection schemes and ensure selective coordination of protective devices power quality models used to determine voltage and current distortions at any point in the network to name just a few. It will be understood that different models can be used depending on the system being modeled.

In certain embodiments hub is configured to supply equipment identification associated with the real time data. This identification can be cross referenced with identifications provided in the models.

In one embodiment if the comparison performed by comparison engine indicates that the differential between the real time sensor output value and the expected value exceeds a Defined Difference Tolerance DDT value i.e. the real time output values of the sensor output do not indicate an alarm condition but below an alarm condition i.e. alarm threshold value a calibration request is generated by the analytics engine . If the differential exceeds the alarm condition an alarm or notification message is generated by the analytics engine . If the differential is below the DTT value the analytics engine does nothing and continues to monitor the real time data and expected data.

In one embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent directly to the client i.e. user e.g. via HMI for display in real time on a web browser pop up message box e mail or equivalent on the client display panel. In another embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent to a wireless mobile device e.g. BLACKBERRY laptop pager etc. to be displayed for the user by way of a wireless router or equivalent device interfaced with the analytics server . In still another embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent to both the client display and the wireless mobile device. The alarm can be indicative of a need for a repair event or maintenance to be done on the monitored system. It should be noted however that calibration requests should not be allowed if an alarm condition exists to prevent the models form being calibrated to an abnormal state.

Once the calibration is generated by the analytics engine the various operating parameters or conditions of model s can be updated or adjusted to reflect the actual facility configuration. This can include but is not limited to modifying the predicted data output from the simulation engine adjusting the logic processing parameters utilized by the model s adding subtracting functional elements from model s etc. It should be understood that any operational parameter of models can be modified as long as the resulting modifications can be processed and registered by simulation engine .

Referring back to models can be stored in the virtual system model database . As noted a variety of conventional virtual model applications can be used for creating a virtual system model so that a wide variety of systems and system parameters can be modeled. For example in the context of an electrical power distribution system the virtual system model can include components for modeling reliability voltage stability and power flow. In addition models can include dynamic control logic that permits a user to configure the models by specifying control algorithms and logic blocks in addition to combinations and interconnections of generators governors relays breakers transmission line and the like. The voltage stability parameters can indicate capacity in terms of size supply and distribution and can indicate availability in terms of remaining capacity of the presently configured system. The power flow model can specify voltage frequency and power factor thus representing the health of the system.

All of models can be referred to as a virtual system model. Thus virtual system model database can be configured to store the virtual system model. A duplicate but synchronized copy of the virtual system model can be stored in a virtual simulation model database . This duplicate model can be used for what if simulations. In other words this model can be used to allow a system designer to make hypothetical changes to the facility and test the resulting effect without taking down the facility or costly and time consuming analysis. Such hypothetical can be used to learn failure patterns and signatures as well as to test proposed modifications upgrades additions etc. for the facility. The real time data as well as trending produced by analytics engine can be stored in a real time data acquisition database .

As discussed above the virtual system model is periodically calibrated and synchronized with real time sensor data outputs so that the virtual system model provides data output values that are consistent with the actual real time values received from the sensor output signals. Unlike conventional systems that use virtual system models primarily for system design and implementation purposes i.e. offline simulation and facility planning the virtual system models described herein are updated and calibrated with the real time system operational data to provide better predictive output values. A divergence between the real time sensor output values and the predicted output values generate either an alarm condition for the values in question and or a calibration request that is sent to the calibration engine .

Continuing with the analytics engine can be configured to implement pattern sequence recognition into a real time decision loop that e.g. is enabled by a new type of machine learning called associative memory or hierarchical temporal memory HTM which is a biological approach to learning and pattern recognition. Associative memory allows storage discovery and retrieval of learned associations between extremely large numbers of attributes in real time. At a basic level an associative memory stores information about how attributes and their respective features occur together. The predictive power of the associative memory technology comes from its ability to interpret and analyze these co occurrences and to produce various metrics. Associative memory is built through experiential learning in which each newly observed state is accumulated in the associative memory as a basis for interpreting future events. Thus by observing normal system operation over time and the normal predicted system operation over time the associative memory is able to learn normal patterns as a basis for identifying non normal behavior and appropriate responses and to associate patterns with particular outcomes contexts or responses. The analytics engine is also better able to understand component mean time to failure rates through observation and system availability characteristics. This technology in combination with the virtual system model can be characterized as a neocortical model of the system under management.

This approach also presents a novel way to digest and comprehend alarms in a manageable and coherent way. The neocortical model could assist in uncovering the patterns and sequencing of alarms to help pinpoint the location of the impending failure its context and even the cause. Typically responding to the alarms is done manually by experts who have gained familiarity with the system through years of experience. However at times the amount of information is so great that an individual cannot respond fast enough or does not have the necessary expertise. An intelligent system like the neocortical system that observes and recommends possible responses could improve the alarm management process by either supporting the existing operator or even managing the system autonomously.

Current simulation approaches for maintaining transient stability involve traditional numerical techniques and typically do not test all possible scenarios. The problem is further complicated as the numbers of components and pathways increase. Through the application of the neocortical model by observing simulations of circuits and by comparing them to actual system responses it may be possible to improve the simulation process thereby improving the overall design of future circuits.

The virtual system model database as well as databases and can be configured to store one or more virtual system models virtual simulation models and real time data values each customized to a particular system being monitored by the analytics server . Thus the analytics server can be utilized to monitor more than one system at a time. As depicted herein the databases and can be hosted on the analytics server and communicatively interfaced with the analytics engine . In other embodiments databases and can be hosted on a separate database server not shown that is communicatively connected to the analytics server in a manner that allows the virtual system modeling engine and analytics engine to access the databases as needed.

Therefore in one embodiment the client can modify the virtual system model stored on the virtual system model database by using a virtual system model development interface using well known modeling tools that are separate from the other network interfaces. For example dedicated software applications that run in conjunction with the network interface to allow a client to create or modify the virtual system models.

The client may utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters etc. and virtual system model of the system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly data from those various components of the monitored system can be displayed on a client display panel for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent.

As described above server is configured to synchronize the physical world with the virtual and report e.g. via visual real time display deviations between the two as well as system health alarm conditions predicted failures etc. This is illustrated with the aid of in which the synchronization of the physical world left side and virtual world right side is illustrated. In the physical world sensors produce real time data for the processes and equipment that make up facility . In the virtual world simulations of the virtual system model provide predicted values which are correlated and synchronized with the real time data . The real time data can then be compared to the predicted values so that differences can be detected. The significance of these differences can be determined to determine the health status of the system. The health stats can then be communicated to the processes and equipment e.g. via alarms and indicators as well as to thin client e.g. via web pages .

Each analytics server i.e. analytics server A analytics server B analytics server n is configured to monitor the sensor output data of its corresponding monitored system and feed that data to the central analytics server . Additionally each of the analytics servers can function as a proxy agent of the central analytics server during the modifying and or adjusting of the operating parameters of the system sensors they monitor. For example analytics server B is configured to be utilized as a proxy to modify the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with monitored system B .

Moreover the central analytics server which is communicatively connected to one or more analytics server s can be used to enhance the scalability. For example a central analytics server can be used to monitor multiple electrical power generation facilities i.e. monitored system A can be a power generation facility located in city A while monitored system B is a power generation facility located in city B on an electrical power grid. In this example the number of electrical power generation facilities that can be monitored by central analytics server is limited only by the data processing capacity of the central analytics server . The central analytics server can be configured to enable a client to modify and adjust the operational parameters of any the analytics servers communicatively connected to the central analytics server . Furthermore as discussed above each of the analytics servers are configured to serve as proxies for the central analytics server to enable a client to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with the systems that they respectively monitor. For example the client can use the central analytics server and vice versa to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of analytics server A and utilize the same to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with monitored system A . Additionally each of the analytics servers can be configured to allow a client to modify the virtual system model through a virtual system model development interface using well known modeling tools.

In one embodiment the central analytics server can function to monitor and control a monitored system when its corresponding analytics server is out of operation. For example central analytics server can take over the functionality of analytics server B when the server is out of operation. That is the central analytics server can monitor the data output from monitored system B and modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors that are interfaced with the system .

In one embodiment the network connection is established through a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. In another embodiment the network connection is established through a local area network LAN such as the company intranet. In a separate embodiment the network connection is a hardwired physical connection. For example the data acquisition hub may be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to a data server that is communicatively connected via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling through the Internet and to the analytics server server hosting the analytics engine . In another embodiment the network connection is a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi WLAN etc. . For example utilizing an 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format.

In certain embodiments regional analytics servers can be placed between local analytics servers . . . and central analytics server . Further in certain embodiments a disaster recovery site can be included at the central analytics server level.

The analytics server includes a variety of components. In the embodiment the analytics server is implemented in a Web based configuration so that the analytics server includes or communicates with a secure web server for communication with the sensor systems e.g. data acquisition units metering devices sensors etc. and external communication entities e.g. web browser thin client applications etc. . A variety of user views and functions are available to the client such as alarm reports Active X controls equipment views view editor tool custom user interface page and XML parser. It should be appreciated however that these are just examples of a few in a long list of views and functions that the analytics server can deliver to the external communications entities and are not meant to limit the types of views and functions available to the analytics server in any way.

The analytics server also includes an alarm engine and messaging engine for the aforementioned external communications. The alarm engine is configured to work in conjunction with the messaging engine to generate alarm or notification messages in the form of text messages e mails paging etc. in response to the alarm conditions previously described. The analytics server determines alarm conditions based on output data it receives from the various sensor systems through a communications connection e.g. wireless TCP IP Serial etc and simulated output data from a virtual system model of the monitored system processed by the analytics engines . In one embodiment the virtual system model is created by a user through interacting with an external communication entity by specifying the components that comprise the monitored system and by specifying relationships between the components of the monitored system. In another embodiment the virtual system model is automatically generated by the analytics engines as components of the monitored system are brought online and interfaced with the analytics server .

Continuing with a virtual system model database is communicatively connected with the analytics server and is configured to store one or more virtual system models each of which represents a particular monitored system. For example the analytics server can conceivably monitor multiple electrical power generation systems e.g. system A system B system C etc. spread across a wide geographic area e.g. City A City B City C etc. . Therefore the analytics server will utilize a different virtual system model for each of the electrical power generation systems that it monitors. Virtual simulation model database can be configured to store a synchronized duplicate copy of the virtual system model and real time data acquisition database can store the real time and trending data for the system s being monitored.

Thus in operation analytics server can receive real time data for various sensors i.e. components through data acquisition system . As can be seen analytics server can comprise various drivers configured to interface with the various types of sensors etc. comprising data acquisition system . This data represents the real time operational data for the various components. For example the data may indicate that a certain component is operating at a certain voltage level and drawing certain amount of current. This information can then be fed to a modeling engine to generate a virtual system model that is based on the actual real time operational data.

Analytics engine can be configured to compare predicted data based on the virtual system model with real time data received from data acquisition system and to identify any differences. In some instances analytics engine can be configured to identify these differences and then update i.e. calibrate the virtual system model for use in future comparisons. In this manner more accurate comparisons and warnings can be generated.

But in other instances the differences will indicate a failure or the potential for a failure. For example when a component begins to fail the operating parameters will begin to change. This change may be sudden or it may be a progressive change over time. Analytics engine can detect such changes and issue warnings that can allow the changes to be detected before a failure occurs. The analytic engine can be configured to generate warnings that can be communicated via interface .

For example a user can access information from server using thin client . For example reports can be generate and served to thin client via server . These reports can for example comprise schematic or symbolic illustrations of the system being monitored. Status information for each component can be illustrated or communicated for each component. This information can be numerical i.e. the voltage or current level. Or it can be symbolic i.e. green for normal red for failure or warning. In certain embodiments intermediate levels of failure can also be communicated i.e. yellow can be used to indicate operational conditions that project the potential for future failure. It should be noted that this information can be accessed in real time. Moreover via thin client the information can be accessed form anywhere and anytime.

Continuing with the Analytics Engine is communicatively interfaced with a HTM Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning Engine . The HTM Engine is configured to work in conjunction with the Analytics Engine and a virtual system model of the monitored system to make real time predictions i.e. forecasts about various operational aspects of the monitored system. The HTM Engine works by processing and storing patterns observed during the normal operation of the monitored system over time. These observations are provided in the form of real time data captured using a multitude of sensors that are imbedded within the monitored system. In one embodiment the virtual system model is also updated with the real time data such that the virtual system model ages along with the monitored system. Examples of a monitored system includes machinery factories electrical systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems data centers aircraft carriers and the like. It should be understood that the monitored system can be any combination of components whose operations can be monitored with conventional sensors and where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component within the combination.

Method moves on to operation where the virtual system model of the monitored system under management is updated in response to the real time data. This may include but is not limited to modifying the simulated data output from the virtual system model adjusting the logic processing parameters utilized by the virtual system modeling engine to simulate the operation of the monitored system adding subtracting functional elements of the virtual system model etc. It should be understood that any operational parameter of the virtual system modeling engine and or the virtual system model may be modified by the calibration engine as long as the resulting modifications can be processed and registered by the virtual system modeling engine.

Method proceeds on to operation where the simulated real time data indicative of the monitored system status is compared with a corresponding virtual system model created at the design stage. The design stage models which may be calibrated and updated based on real time monitored data are used as a basis for the predicted performance of the system. The real time monitored data can then provide the actual performance over time. By comparing the real time time data with the predicted performance information difference can be identified a tracked by e.g. the analytics engine . Analytics engines can then track trends determine alarm states etc. and generate a real time report of the system status in response to the comparison.

In other words the analytics can be used to analyze the comparison and real time data and determine if there is a problem that should be reported and what level the problem may be e.g. low priority high priority critical etc. The analytics can also be used to predict future failures and time to failure etc. In one embodiment reports can be displayed on a conventional web browser e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER FIREFOX NETSCAPE etc that is rendered on a standard personal computing PC device. In another embodiment the real time report can be rendered on a thin client computing device e.g. CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal application . In still another embodiment the report can be displayed on a wireless mobile device e.g. BLACKBERRY laptop pager etc. . For example in one embodiment the real time report can include such information as the differential in a particular power parameter i.e. current voltage etc. between the real time measurements and the virtual output data.

Method moves to operation where the real time data is processed into a defined format. This would be a format that can be utilized by the analytics server to analyze or compare the data with the simulated data output from the virtual system model. In one embodiment the data is converted from an analog signal to a digital signal. In another embodiment the data is converted from a digital signal to an analog signal. It should be understood however that the real time data may be processed into any defined format as long as the analytics engine can utilize the resulting data in a comparison with simulated output data from a virtual system model of the monitored system.

Method continues on to operation where the predicted i.e. simulated data for the monitored system is generated using a virtual system model of the monitored system. As discussed above a virtual system modeling engine utilizes dynamic control logic stored in the virtual system model to generate the predicted output data. The predicted data is supposed to be representative of data that should actually be generated and output from the monitored system.

Method proceeds to operation where a determination is made as to whether the difference between the real time data output and the predicted system data falls between a set value and an alarm condition value where if the difference falls between the set value and the alarm condition value a virtual system model calibration and a response can be generated. That is if the comparison indicates that the differential between the real time sensor output value and the corresponding virtual model data output value exceeds a Defined Difference Tolerance DDT value i.e. the real time output values of the sensor output do not indicate an alarm condition but below an alarm condition i.e. alarm threshold value a response can be generated by the analytics engine. In one embodiment if the differential exceeds the alarm condition an alarm or notification message is generated by the analytics engine . In another embodiment if the differential is below the DTT value the analytics engine does nothing and continues to monitor the real time data and virtual data. Generally speaking the comparison of the set value and alarm condition is indicative of the functionality of one or more components of the monitored system.

Method proceeds to operation where the predicted system output value for the virtual system model is updated with a real time output value for the monitored system. For example if sensors interfaced with the monitored system outputs a real time current value of A then the predicted system output value for the virtual system model is adjusted to reflect a predicted current value of A.

Method moves on to operation where a difference between the real time sensor value measurement from a sensor integrated with the monitored system and a predicted sensor value for the sensor is determined. As discussed above the analytics engine is configured to receive real time data from sensors interfaced with the monitored system via the data acquisition hub or alternatively directly from the sensors and virtual data from the virtual system modeling engine simulating the data output from a virtual system model of the monitored system. In one embodiment the values are in units of electrical power output i.e. current or voltage from an electrical power generation or transmission system. It should be appreciated however that the values can essentially be any unit type as long as the sensors can be configured to output data in those units or the analytics engine can convert the output data received from the sensors into the desired unit type before performing the comparison.

Method continues on to operation where the operating parameters of the virtual system model are adjusted to minimize the difference. This means that the logic parameters of the virtual system model that a virtual system modeling engine uses to simulate the data output from actual sensors interfaced with the monitored system are adjusted so that the difference between the real time data output and the simulated data output is minimized. Correspondingly this operation will update and adjust any virtual system model output parameters that are functions of the virtual system model sensor values. For example in a power distribution environment output parameters of power load or demand factor might be a function of multiple sensor data values. The operating parameters of the virtual system model that mimic the operation of the sensor will be adjusted to reflect the real time data received from those sensors. In one embodiment authorization from a system administrator is requested prior to the operating parameters of the virtual system model being adjusted. This is to ensure that the system administrator is aware of the changes that are being made to the virtual system model. In one embodiment after the completion of all the various calibration operations a report is generated to provide a summary of all the adjustments that have been made to the virtual system model.

As described above virtual system modeling engine can be configured to model various aspects of the system to produce predicted values for the operation of various components within monitored system . These predicted values can be compared to actual values being received via data acquisition hub . If the differences are greater than a certain threshold e.g. the DTT but not in an alarm condition then a calibration instruction can be generated. The calibration instruction can cause a calibration engine to update the virtual model being used by system modeling engine to reflect the new operating information.

It will be understood that as monitored system ages or more specifically the components comprising monitored system age then the operating parameters e.g. currents and voltages associated with those components will also change. Thus the process of calibrating the virtual model based on the actual operating information provides a mechanism by which the virtual model can be aged along with the monitored system so that the comparisons being generated by analytics engine are more meaningful.

At a high level this process can be illustrated with the aid of which is a flow chart illustrating an example method for updating the virtual model in accordance with one embodiment. In step data is collected from e.g. sensors and . For example the sensors can be configured to monitor protective devices within an electrical distribution system to determine and monitor the ability of the protective devices to withstand faults which is describe in more detail below.

In step the data from the various sensors can be processed by analytics engine in order to evaluate various parameters related to monitored system . In step simulation engine can be configured to generate predicted values for monitored system using a virtual model of the system that can be compared to the parameters generated by analytics engine in step . If there are differences between the actual values and the predicted values then the virtual model can be updated to ensure that the virtual model ages with the actual system .

It should be noted that as the monitored system ages various components can be repaired replaced or upgraded which can also create differences between the simulated and actual data that is not an alarm condition. Such activity can also lead to calibrations of the virtual model to ensure that the virtual model produces relevant predicted values. Thus not only can the virtual model be updated to reflect aging of monitored system but it can also be updated to reflect retrofits repairs etc.

As noted above in certain embodiments a logical model of a facilities electrical system a data acquisition system data acquisition hub and power system simulation engines modeling engine can be integrated with a logic and methods based approach to the adjustment of key database parameters within a virtual model of the electrical system to evaluate the ability of protective devices within the electrical distribution system to withstand faults and also effectively age the virtual system with the actual system.

Only through such a process can predictions on the withstand abilities of protective devices and the status security and health of an electrical system be accurately calculated. Accuracy is important as the predictions can be used to arrive at actionable mission critical or business critical conclusions that may lead to the re alignment of the electrical distribution system for optimized performance or security.

In step predicted values for the various components of monitored system can be generated. But it should be noted that these values are based on the current real time status of the monitored system. In step it can be determined which predicted voltages are for a value such as a value for a node or load which can be calibrated. At the same time real time sensor data can be received in step . This real time data can be used to monitor the status in step and it can also be compared with the predicted values in step . As noted above the difference between the predicted values and the real time data can also be determined in step .

Accordingly meaningful predicted values based on the actual condition of monitored system can be generated in steps to . These predicted values can then be used to determine if further action should be taken based on the comparison of step . For example if it is determined in step that the difference between the predicted values and the real time sensor data is less than or equal to a certain threshold e.g. DTT then no action can be taken e.g. an instruction not to perform calibration can be issued in step . Alternatively if it is determined in step that the real time data is actually indicative of an alarm situation e.g. is above an alarm threshold then a do not calibrate instruction can be generated in step and an alarm can be generated as described above. If the real time sensor data is not indicative of an alarm condition and the difference between the real time sensor data and the predicted values is greater than the threshold as determined in step then an initiate calibration command can be generated in step .

If an initiate calibration command is issued in step then a function call to calibration engine can be generated in step . The function call will cause calibration engine to update the virtual model in step based on the real time sensor data. A comparison between the real time data and predicted data can then be generated in step and the differences between the two computed. In step a user can be prompted as to whether or not the virtual model should in fact be updated. In other embodiments the update can be automatic and step can be skipped. In step the virtual model could be updated. For example the virtual model loads buses demand factor and or percent running information can be updated based on the information obtained in step . An initiate simulation instruction can then be generated in step which can cause new predicted values to be generated based on the update of virtual model.

In this manner the predicted values generated in step are not only updated to reflect the actual operational status of monitored system but they are also updated to reflect natural changes in monitored system such as aging. Accordingly realistic predicted values can be generated in step .

First in step a short circuit analysis can be performed for the protective device. Again the protective device can be any one of a variety of protective device types. For example the protective device can be a fuse or a switch or some type of circuit breaker. It will be understood that there are various types of circuit breakers including Low Voltage Circuit Breakers LVCBs High Voltage Circuit Breakers HVCBs Mid Voltage Circuit Breakers MVCBs Miniature Circuit Breakers MCBs Molded Case Circuit Breakers MCCBs Vacuum Circuit Breakers and Air Circuit Breakers to name just a few. Any one of these various types of protective devices can be monitored and evaluated using the processes illustrated with respect to .

For example for LVCBs or MCCBs the short circuit current symmetric I or asymmetric I and or the peak current I can be determined in step . For e.g. LVCBs that are not instantaneous trip circuit breakers the short circuit current at a delayed time I can be determined. For HVCBs a first cycle short circuit current I and or Ican be determined in step . For fuses or switches the short circuit current symmetric or asymmetric can be determined in step . And for MVCBs the short circuit current interrupting time can be calculated. These are just some examples of the types of short circuit analysis that can be performed in Step depending on the type of protective device being analyzed.

Once the short circuit analysis is performed in step various steps can be carried out in order to determine the bracing capability of the protective device. For example if the protective device is a fuse or switch then the steps on the left hand side of can be carried out. In this case the fuse rating can first be determined in step . In this case the fuse rating can be the current rating for the fuse. For certain fuses the X R can be calculated in step and the asymmetric short circuit current I for the fuse can be determined in step using equation 1. square root over 1 2 Eq 1

In other implementations the inductants reactants X R ratio can be calculated instep and compared to a fuse test X R to determine if the calculated X R is greater than the fuse test X R. The calculated X R can be determined using the predicted values provided in step . Various standard tests X R values can be used for the fuse test X R values in step . For example standard test X R values for a LVCB can be as follows PCB ICCB 6.59 MCCB ICCB rated 20 000 A 4.9

If the calculated X R is greater than the fuse test X R then in step equation 12 can be used to calculate an adjusted symmetrical short circuit current I .

If the calculated X R is not greater than the fuse test X R then Ican be set equal to Iin step . In step it can then be determined if the fuse rating step is greater than or equal to Ior I. If it is then it can determine in step that the protected device has passed and the percent rating can be calculated in step as follows 

If it is determined in step that the device rating is not greater than or equal to I then it can be determined that the device as failed in step . The percent rating can still be calculating in step .

For LVCBs it can first be determined whether they are fused in step . If it is determined that the LVCB is not fused then in step can be determined if the LVCB is an instantaneous trip LVCB. If it is determined that the LVCB is an instantaneous trip LVCB then in step the first cycle fault X R can be calculated and compared to a circuit breaker test X R see example values above to determine if the fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R. If the fault X R is not greater than the circuit breaker test X R then in step it can be determined if the LVCB is peak rated. If it is peak rated then Ican be used in step below. If it is determined that the LVCB is not peak rated in step then Ican be set equal to Iin step . In step it can be determined if the device rating is greater or equal to I or to Ias appropriate for the LVCB.

If it is determined that the device rating is greater than or equal to I then it can be determined that the LVCB has passed in step . The percent rating can then be determined using the equations for Idefined above step in step . If it is determined that the device rating is not greater than or equal to I then it can be determined that the device has failed in step . The percent rating can still be calculated in step .

If the calculated fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R as determined in step then it can be determined if the LVCB is peak rated in step . If the LVCB is not peak rated then the Ican be determined using equation 12. If the LVCB is peak rated then Ican be determined using equation 11. square root over 2 1.02 0.98 Eq 11

It can then be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Ior Ias appropriate. The pass fail determinations can then be made in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated in step .

If the LVCB is not an instantaneous trip LVCB as determined in step then a time delay calculation can be performed at step followed by calculation of the fault X R and a determination of whether the fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R. If it is not then Iadjsym can be set equal to Isym in step . If the calculated fault at X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R then Iadjsymdelay can be calculated in step using the following equation with e.g. a 0.5 second maximum delay 

It can then be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Ior I. The pass fail determinations can then be made in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated in step .

If it is determined that the LVCB is fused in step then the fault X R can be calculated in step and compared to the circuit breaker test X R in order to determine if the calculated fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R. If it is greater then Ican be calculated in step using the following equation 

If the calculated fault X R is not greater than the circuit breaker test X R then Ican be set equal to Iin step . It can then be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Iin step . The pass fail determinations can then be carried out in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be determined in step .

In other embodiments an interrupting time calculation can be made in step . In such embodiments a fault X R can be calculated and then can be determined if the fault X R is greater than or equal to a circuit breaker test X R in step . For example the following circuit breaker test X R can be used 50 Hz Test X R 13.7 60 Hz Test X R 16.7 DC Time content 0.45 ms 

If the fault X R is not greater than the circuit breaker test X R then Ican be set equal to Iin step . If the calculated fault X R is greater than the circuit breaker test X R then contact parting time for the circuit breaker can be determined in step and equation 15 can then be used to determine Iin step .

In step it can be determined whether the device rating is greater than or equal to I. The pass fail determinations can then be made in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated in step using the following 

For fuses switches a selection can be made as appropriate between use of the symmetrical rating or asymmetrical rating for the device. The Multiplying Factor MF for the device can then be calculated in step . The MF can then be used to determine Ior I. In step it can be determined if the device rating is greater than or equal to Ior I. Based on this determination it can be determined whether the device passed or failed in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be determined in step using the following rating 100 device rating or rating 100 device rating.

For LVCBs it can first be determined whether the device is fused in step . If the device is not fused then in step it can be determined whether the X R is known for the device. If it is known then the LVF can be calculated for the device in step . It should be noted that the LVF can vary depending on whether the LVCB is an instantaneous trip device or not. If the X R is not known then it can be determined in step e.g. using the following PCB ICCB 6.59 MCCB ICCB rated 20 000 A 4.9

If the device is fused then in step it can again be determined whether the X R is known. If it is known then the LVF can be calculated in step . If it is not known then the X R can be set equal to e.g. 4.9.

In step it can be determined if the LVF is less than 1 and if it is then the LVF can be set equal to 1. In step Ican be determined using the following MCCB ICCB PCB With Instantaneous PCB Without Instantaneous Cyc 3 8 Cyc 

In step it can be determined whether the device s symmetrical rating is greater than or equal to I and it can be determined based on this evaluation whether the device passed or failed in steps and respectively. The percent rating can then be determined in step using the following rating 100 device rating.

If all the contributions are remote then in step the remote MF MFr can be calculated and Ican be calculated using the following .

If the contributions are from NACD then the NACD MFr MFl and AMFl can be calculated. If AMFl is less than 1 then AMFl can be set equal to 1. Ican then be calculated using the following 

In step the 3 phase device duty cycle can be calculated and then it can be determined in step whether the device rating is greater than or equal to I. Whether the device passed or failed can then be determined in steps and respectively. The percent rating can be determined in step using the following rating 100 3device rating.

In other embodiments it can be determined in step whether the user has selected a fixed MF. If so then in certain embodiments the peak duty crest can be determined in step and MFp can be set equal to 2.7 in step . If a fixed MF has not been selected then the peak duty crest can be calculated in step and MFp can be calculated in step . In step the MFp can be used to calculate the following .

In step it can be determined if the device peak rating crest is greater than or equal to I. It can then be determined whether the device passed or failed in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated as follows rating 100 device peak crest rating.

In other embodiments if a fixed MF is selected then a momentary duty cycle C L can be determined in step and MFm can be set equal to e.g. 1.6. If a fixed MF has not been selected then in step MFm can be calculated. MFm can then be used to determine the following .

It can then be determined in step whether the device C L rms rating is greater than or equal to I. Whether the device passed or failed can then be determined in steps and respectively and the percent rating can be calculated as follows rating 100 device rating.

Thus the above methods provide a mean to determine the withstand capability of various protective devices under various conditions and using various standards using an aged up to date virtual model of the system being monitored.

The influx of massive sensory data e.g. provided via sensors and intelligent filtration of this dense stream of data into manageable and easily understandable knowledge. For example as mentioned it is important to be able to assess the real time ability of the power system to provide sufficient generation to satisfy the system load requirements and to move the generated energy through the system to the load points. Conventional systems do not make use of an on line real time system snap shot captured by a real time data acquisition platform to perform real time system availability evaluation.

In step a list of possible outage conditions and contingencies can be evaluated including loss of utility power supply generators UPS and or distribution lines and infrastructure. In step a power flow analysis for monitored system under the various contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include the resulting failure rates repair rates cost of interruption or downtime versus the required system availability etc. In step it can be determined if the system is operating in a deficient state when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then is step the impact on the system load interruptions costs failure duration system unavailability etc. can all be evaluated.

After the evaluation of step or if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then it can be determined if further contingencies need to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated. If no more contingencies are to be evaluated then a report can be generated in step . The report can include a system summary total and detailed reliability indices system availability etc. The report can also identify system bottlenecks are potential problem areas.

The reliability indices can be based on the results of credible system contingencies involving both generation and transmission outages. The reliability indices can include load point reliability indices branch reliability indices and system reliability indices. For example various load bus reliability indices can be determined such as probability and frequency of failure expected load curtailed expected energy not supplied frequency of voltage violations reactive power required and expected customer outage cost. The load point indices can be evaluated for the major load buses in the system and can be used in system design for comparing alternate system configurations and modifications.

Overall system reliability indices can include power interruption index power supply average MW curtailment power supply disturbance index power energy curtailment index severity index and system availability. For example the individual load point indices can be aggregated to produce a set of system indices. These indices are indicators of the overall adequacy of the composite system to meet the total system load demand and energy requirements and can be extremely useful for the system planner and management allowing more informed decisions to be made both in planning and in managing the system.

The various analysis and techniques can be broadly classified as being either Monte Carlo simulation or Contingency Enumeration. The process can also use AC DC and fast linear network power flow solutions techniques and can support multiple contingency modeling multiple load levels automatic or user selected contingency enumeration use a variety of remedial actions and provides sophisticated report generation.

The analysis of step can include adequacy analysis of the power system being monitored based on a prescribed set of criteria by which the system must be judged as being in the success or failed state. The system is considered to be in the failed state if the service at load buses is interrupted or its quality becomes unacceptable i.e. if there are capacity deficiency overloads and or under over voltages.

Various load models can be used in the process of including multi step load duration curve curtailable and Firm and Customer Outage Cost models. Additionally various remedial actions can be proscribed or even initiated including MW and MVAR generation control generator bus voltage control phase shifter adjustment MW generation rescheduling and load curtailment interruptible and firm .

In other embodiments the effect of other variables such as the weather and human error can also be evaluated in conjunction with the process of and indices can be associated with these factors. For example is a flow chart illustrating an example process for analyzing the reliability of an electrical power distribution and transmission system that takes weather information into account in accordance with one embodiment. Thus in step real time weather data can be received e.g. via a data feed such as an XML feed from National Oceanic and Atmosphere Administration NOAA . In step this data can be converted into reliability data that can be used in step .

It should also be noted that National Fire Protection Association NFPA and the Occupational Safety and Health Association OSHA have mandated that facilities comply with proper workplace safety standards and conduct Arc Flash studies in order to determine the incident energy protection boundaries and PPE levels needed to be worn by technicians. Unfortunately conventional approaches systems for performing such studies do not provide a reliable means for the real time prediction of the potential energy released in calories per centimeter squared for an arc flash event. Moreover no real time system exists that can predict the required personal protective equipment PPE required to safely perform repairs as required by NFPA 70E and IEEE 1584.

When a fault in the system being monitored contains an arc the heat released can damage equipment and cause personal injury. It is the latter concern that brought about the development of the heat exposure programs referred to above. The power dissipated in the arc radiates to the surrounding surfaces. The further away from the arc the surface is the less the energy is received per unit area.

As noted above conventional approaches are based on highly specialized static simulation models that are rigid and non reflective of the facilities operational status at the time a technician may be needed to conduct repairs on electrical equipment. But the PPE level required for the repair or the safe protection boundary may change based on the actual operational status of the facility and alignment of the power distribution system at the time repairs are needed. Therefore a static model does not provide the real time analysis that can be critical for accurate PPE level determination. This is because static systems cannot adjust to the many daily changes to the electrical system that occur at a facility e.g. motors and pumps may be on or off on site generation status may have changed by having diesel generators on line utility electrical feed may also change etc. nor can they age with the facility to accurately predict the required PPE levels.

Accordingly existing systems rely on exhaustive studies to be performed off line by a power system engineer or a design professional specialist. Often the specialist must manually modify a simulation model so that it is reflective of the proposed facility operating condition and then conduct a static simulation or a series of static simulations in order to come up with recommended safe working distances energy calculations and PPE levels. But such a process is not timely accurate nor efficient and as noted above can be quite costly.

Using the systems and methods described herein a logical model of a facility electrical system can be integrated into a real time environment with a robust AC Arc Flash simulation engine system modeling engine a data acquisition system data acquisition hub and an automatic feedback system calibration engine that continuously synchronizes and calibrates the logical model to the actual operational conditions of the electrical system. The ability to re align the simulation model in real time so that it mirrors the real facility operating conditions coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the model as the real facility ages as describe above provides a desirable approach to predicting PPE levels and safe working conditions at the exact time the repairs are intended to be performed. Accordingly facility management can provide real time compliance with e.g. NFPA 70E and IEEE 1584 standards and requirements.

The ratio of arc current to bolted current can then be used in step to determine the arcing current in a specific protective device such as a circuit breaker or fuse. A coordinated time current curve analysis can be performed for the protective device in step . In step the arcing current in the protective device and the time current analysis can be used to determine an associated fault clearing time and in step a corresponding arc energy can be determined based on e.g. IEEE 1584 equations applied to the fault clearing time and arcing current.

In step the 100 arcing current can be calculated and for systems operating at less than 1 kV the 85 arcing current can also be calculated. In step the fault clearing time in the protective device can be determined at the 85 arcing current level. In step e.g. IEEE 1584 equations can be applied to the fault clearing time determined in step and the arcing current to determine the 85 arc energy level and in step the 100 arcing current can be compared with the 85 arcing current with the higher of the two being selected. IEEE 1584 equations for example can then be applied to the selected arcing current in step and the PPE level and boundary distance can be determined in step . In step these values can be output e.g. in the form of a display or report.

In other embodiments using the same or a similar procedure as illustrated in the following evaluations can be made in real time and based on an accurate e.g. aged model of the system 

With the insight gained through the above methods appropriate protective measures clothing and procedures can be mobilized to minimize the potential for injury should an arc flash incident occur. Facility owners and operators can efficiently implement a real time safety management system that is in compliance with NFPA 70E and IEEE 1584 guidelines.

In step the dynamic time domain model data can be updated to re align the virtual system model in real time so that it mirrors the real operating conditions of the facility. The updates to the domain model data coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the virtual system model of the facility as it ages i.e. real time condition of the facility as describe above provides a desirable approach to predicting the operational stability of the electrical power system operating under contingency situations. That is these updates account for the natural aging effects of hardware that comprise the total electrical power system by continuously synchronizing and calibrating both the control logic used in the simulation and the actual operating conditions of the electrical system.

The domain model data includes data that is reflective of both the static and non static rotating components of the system. Static components are those components that are assumed to display no changes during the time in which the transient contingency event takes place. Typical time frames for disturbance in these types of elements range from a few cycles of the operating frequency of the system up to a few seconds. Examples of static components in an electrical system include but are not limited to transformers cables overhead lines reactors static capacitors etc. Non static rotating components encompass synchronous machines including their associated controls exciters governors etc induction machines compensators motor operated valves MOV turbines static var compensators fault isolation units FIU static automatic bus transfer SABT units etc. These various types of non static components can be simulated using various techniques. For example 

In one embodiment the time domain model data includes built in dynamic model data for exciters governors transformers relays breakers motors and power system stabilizers PSS offered by a variety of manufactures. For example dynamic model data for the electrical power system may be OEM manufacturer supplied control logic for electrical equipment such as automatic voltage regulators AVR governors under load tap changing transformers relays breakers motors etc. In another embodiment in order to cope with recent advances in power electronic and digital controllers the time domain model data includes user defined dynamic modeling data that is created by an authorized system administrator in accordance with user defined control logic models. The user defined models interacts with the virtual system model of the electrical power system through Interface Variables that are created out of the user defined control logic models. For example to build a user defined excitation model the controls requires that generator terminal voltage to be measured and compared with a reference quantity voltage set point . Based on the specific control logic of the excitation and AVR the model would then compute the predicted generator field voltage and return that value back to the application. The user defined modeling supports a large number of pre defined control blocks functions that are used to assemble the required control systems and put them into action in a real time environment for assessing the strength and security of the power system. In still another embodiment the time domain model data includes both built in dynamic model data and user defined model data.

Moving on to step a contingency event can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the operational stability of the electrical power system can be assessed under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . In one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a system administrator in accordance with user requirements. In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with control logic that is dynamically adaptive to past observations of the electrical power system. That is the control logic learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the electrical power system operating under various conditions.

In step a transient stability analysis of the electrical power system operating under the various chosen contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include identification of system weaknesses and insecure contingency conditions. That is the analysis can predict forecast the system s ability to sustain power demand maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve operate safely with minimum operating cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and provide an acceptably high level of power quality while being subjected to various contingency events. The results of the analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine during step to support incremental learning about the operational characteristics of the system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into the associative memory engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the logical realities of the power system. In certain embodiments engine can also act as a pattern recognition engine or a Hierarchical Temporal Memory HTM engine. Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and give recommendations.

In step it can be determined if the system is operating in a deficient state when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then in step a report is generated providing a summary of the operational stability of the system. The summary may include general predictions about the total security and stability of the system and or detailed predictions about each component that makes up the system.

Alternatively if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then step can determine if further contingencies needs to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated.

The results of real time simulations performed in accordance with can be communicated in step via a report such as a print out or display of the status. In addition the information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrated the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the security or insecurity of a component subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques some of which are describe below in step .

The process of can be applied to a number of needs including but not limited to predicting system stability due to Motor starting and motor sequencing an example is the assessment of adequacy of a power system in emergency start up of auxiliaries evaluation of the protections such as under frequency and under voltage load shedding schemes example of this is allocation of required load shedding for a potential loss of a power generation source determination of critical clearing time of circuit breakers to maintain stability and determination of the sequence of protective device operations and interactions.

Traditionally transient stability has been the main focus of power system professionals. However with the increased demand for electrical energy and the regulatory hurdles blocking the expansion of existing power systems the occurrences of voltage instability has become increasingly frequent and therefore has gained increased attention from power system planners and power system facility operators. The ability to learn understand and make predictions about available power system capacity and system susceptibility to voltage instability in real time would be beneficial in generating power trends for forecasting purposes.

In step the voltage stability modeling data for the components comprising the electrical system can be updated to re align the virtual system model in real time so that it mirrors the real operating conditions of the facility. These updates to the voltage stability modeling data coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the virtual system model of the facility as it ages i.e. real time condition of the facility as describe above provides a desirable approach to predicting occurrences of voltage instability or power capacity in the electrical power system when operating under contingency situations. That is these updates account for the natural aging effects of hardware that comprise the total electrical power system by continuously synchronizing and calibrating both the control logic used in the simulation and the actual operating conditions of the electrical system.

The voltage stability modeling data includes system data that has direct influence on the electrical system s ability to maintain acceptable voltage profiles when the system is subjected to various contingencies such as when system topology changes or when the system encounters power load changes. Some examples of voltage stability modeling data are load scaling data generation scaling data load growth factor data load growth increment data etc.

In one embodiment the voltage stability modeling data includes built in data supplied by an OEM manufacturer of the components that comprise the electrical equipment. In another embodiment in order to cope with recent advances power system controls the voltage stability data includes user defined data that is created by an authorized system administrator in accordance with user defined control logic models. The user defined models interact with the virtual system model of the electrical power system through Interface Variables that are created out of the user defined control logic models. In still another embodiment the voltage stability modeling data includes a combination of both built in model data and user defined model data.

Moving on to step a contingency event can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the voltage stability of the electrical power system can be assessed under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . In one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a system administrator in accordance with user requirements. In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with control logic that is dynamically adaptive to past observations of the electrical power system. That is the control logic learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the electrical power system operating under various conditions. Some examples of contingency events include but are not limited to loss of utility supply to the electrical system loss of available power generation sources system load changes fluctuations loss of distribution infrastructure associated with the electrical system etc.

In step a voltage stability analysis of the electrical power system operating under the various chosen contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include a prediction forecast of the total system power capacity available system power capacity and utilized system power capacity of the electrical system of the electrical system under various contingencies. That is the analysis can predict forecast the electrical system s ability to maintain acceptable voltage profiles during load changes and when the overall system topology undergoes changes. The results of the analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine during step to support incremental learning about the power capacity characteristics of the system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into the associative memory engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the voltage stability of the electrical system in step . Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and give recommendations.

In step it can be determined if there is voltage instability in the system when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then in step a report is generated providing a summary of the specifics and source of the voltage instability. The summary may include general predictions about the voltage stability of the overall system and or detailed predictions about each component that makes up the system.

Alternatively if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then step can determine if further contingencies needs to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated.

The results of real time simulations performed in accordance with can be communicated in step via a report such as a print out or display of the status. In addition the information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrated the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the capacity of a subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques some of which are describe below in step

The systems and methods described above can also be used to provide reports step on e.g. total system electrical capacity total system capacity remaining total capacity at all busbars and or processes total capacity remaining at all busbars and or processes total system loading loading at each busbar and or process etc.

Thus the process of can receive input data related to power flow e.g. network connectivity loads generations cables transformers impedances etc. power security contingencies and capacity assessment model data and can produce as outputs data related to the predicted and designed total system capacity available capacity and present capacity. This information can be used to make more informed decisions with respect to management of the facility.

The inherent risks to safety and the operational life of components comprising the electrical system that harmonic distortions poses to electrical systems have led to the inclusion of harmonic distortion analysis as part of traditional power analysis. Metering and sensor packages are currently available to monitor harmonic distortions within an electrical system. However it is not feasible to fully sensor out an electrical system at all possible locations due to cost and the physical accessibility limitations in certain parts of the system. Therefore there is a need for techniques that predict through real time simulation the sources of harmonic distortions within an electrical system the impacts that harmonic distortions have or may have and what steps i.e. harmonics filtering may be taken to minimize or eliminate harmonics from the system.

Currently there are no reliable techniques for predicting in real time the potential for periodic non sinusoidal waveforms i.e. harmonic distortions to occur at any location within an electrical system powered with sinusoidal voltage. In addition existing techniques do not take into consideration the operating conditions and topology of the electrical system or utilizes a virtual system model of the system that ages with the actual facility or its current condition. Moreover no existing technique combines real time power quality meter readings and predicted power quality readings for use with a pattern recognition system such as an associative memory machine learning system to predict harmonic distortions in a system due to changes in topology or poor operational conditions within an electrical system.

The process described herein provides a harmonics analysis solution that uses a real time snap shot captured by a data acquisition system to perform a real time system power quality evaluation at all locations regardless of power quality metering density. This process integrates in real time a logical simulation model i.e. virtual system model of the electrical system a data acquisition system and power system simulation engines with a logic based approach to synchronize the logical simulation model with conditions at the real electrical system to effectively age the simulation model along with the actual electrical system. Through this approach predictions about harmonic distortions in an electrical system may be accurately calculated in real time. Condensed this process works by simulating harmonic distortions in an electrical system through subjecting a real time updated virtual system model of the system to one or more simulated contingency situations.

In step the harmonic frequency modeling data for the components comprising the electrical system can be updated to re align the virtual system model in real time so that it mirrors the real operating conditions of the facility. These updates to the harmonic frequency modeling data coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the virtual system model of the facility as it ages i.e. real time condition of the facility as describe above provides a desirable approach to predicting occurrences of harmonic distortions within the electrical power system when operating under contingency situations. That is these updates account for the natural aging effects of hardware that comprise the total electrical power system by continuously synchronizing and calibrating both the control logic used in the simulation and the actual operating conditions of the electrical system.

Harmonic frequency modeling data has direct influence over how harmonic distortions are simulated during a harmonics analysis. Examples of data that is included with the harmonic frequency modeling data include IEEE 519 and or Mil 1399 compliant system simulation data generator cable motor skin effect data transformer phase shifting data generator impedance data induction motor impedance data etc.

Moving on to step a contingency event can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the electrical system can be assessed for harmonic distortions under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . In one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a system administrator in accordance with user requirements. In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with control logic that is dynamically adaptive to past observations of the electrical power system. That is the control logic learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the electrical power system operating under various conditions. Some examples of contingency events include but are not limited to additions bringing online and changes of equipment that effectuate a non linear load on an electrical power system e.g. as rectifiers arc furnaces AC DC drives variable frequency drives diode capacitor input power supplies uninterruptible power supplies etc. or other equipment that draws power in short intermittent pulses from the electrical power system.

Continuing with in step a harmonic distortion analysis of the electrical power system operating under the various chosen contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include predictions forecasts of different types of harmonic distortion data at various points within the system. Harmonic distortion data may include but are not limited to 

That is the harmonics analysis can predict forecast various indicators harmonics data of harmonic distortions occurring within the electrical system as it is being subjected to various contingency situations. The results of the analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine during step to support incremental learning about the harmonic distortion characteristics of the system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into the associative memory engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the harmonic distortion profile of the electrical system in step . Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and give recommendations.

In step it can be determined if there are harmonic distortions within the system when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then in step a report is generated providing a summary of specifics regarding the characteristics and sources of the harmonic distortions. The summary may include forecasts about the different types of harmonic distortion data e.g. Wave shape Distortions Oscillations data Parallel and Series Resonant Condition data etc. generated at various points throughout the system. Additionally through these forecasts the associative memory engine can make predictions about the natural oscillation response s of the facility and compare those predictions with the harmonic components of the non linear loads that are fed or will be fed from the system as indicated form the data acquisition system and power quality meters. This will give an indication of what harmonic frequencies that the potential resonant conditions lie at and provide facility operators with the ability to effectively employ a variety of harmonic mitigation techniques e.g. addition of harmonic filter banks etc. 

Alternatively if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then step can determine if further contingencies needs to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated.

The results of real time simulations performed in accordance with can be communicated in step via a report such as a print out or display of the status. In addition the information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrated the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the harmonic status of subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques some of which are describe below in step

Thus the process of can receive input data related to power flow e.g. network connectivity loads generations cables transformers impedances etc. power security contingencies and can produce as outputs data related to Point Specific Power Quality Indices Branch Total Current Harmonic Distortion Indices Bus and Node Total Voltage Harmonic Distortion Indices Frequency Scan Indices for Positive Negative and Zero Sequences Filter s Frequency Angle Response Filter s Frequency Impedance Response and Voltage and Current values over each filter elements r xl xc .

The HTM Machine Learning Engine is configured to store and process patterns observed from real time data fed from the hub and predicted data output from a real time virtual system model of the monitored system. These patterns can later be used by the HTM Engine to make real time predictions forecasts about the various operational aspects of the system.

The data acquisition hub is communicatively connected via data connections to a plurality of sensors that are embedded throughout a monitored system . The data acquisition hub may be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connections are hard wired physical data connections e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensors and the hub . In another embodiment the data connections are wireless data connections. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub .

Examples of a monitored system includes machinery factories electrical systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems data centers aircraft carriers and the like. It should be understood that the monitored system can be any combination of components whose operations can be monitored with conventional sensors and where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component within the combination.

Continuing with the client is typically a conventional thin client or thick client computing device that may utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters etc. and virtual system model of the system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly in one embodiment the data from the various components of the monitored system and the real time predictions forecasts about the various operational aspects of the system can be displayed on a client display panel for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent. In another embodiment the data may be summarized in a hard copy report .

As discussed above the HTM Machine Learning Engine is configured to work in conjunction with a real time updated virtual system model of the monitored system to make predictions forecasts about certain operational aspects of the monitored system when it is subjected to a contingency event. For example where the monitored system is an electrical power system in one embodiment the HTM Machine Learning Engine can be used to make predictions about the operational reliability of an electrical power system in response to contingency events such as a loss of power to the system loss of distribution lines damage to system infrastructure changes in weather conditions etc. Examples of indicators of operational reliability include but are not limited to failure rates repair rates and required availability of the power system and of the various components that make up the system.

In another embodiment the operational aspects relate to an arc flash discharge contingency event that occurs during the operation of the power system. Examples of arc flash related operational aspects include but are not limited to quantity of energy released by the arc flash event required personal protective equipment PPE for personnel operating within the confines of the system during the arc flash event and measurements of the arc flash safety boundary area around components comprising the power system. In still another embodiment the operational aspect relates to the operational stability of the system during a contingency event. That is the system s ability to sustain power demand maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve operate safely with minimum operating cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and provide an acceptably high level of power quality while being subjected to a contingency event.

In still another embodiment the operational aspect relates to the voltage stability of the electrical system immediately after being subjected to a major disturbance i.e. contingency event . Generally speaking voltage instability stems from the attempt of load dynamics to restore power consumption after the disturbance in a manner that is beyond the capability of the combined transmission and generation system. Examples of predicted operational aspects that are indicative of the voltage stability of an electrical system subjected to a disturbance include the total system power capacity available system power capacity and utilized system power capacity of the electrical system under being subjected to various contingencies. Simply voltage stability is the ability of the system to maintain acceptable voltage profiles while under the influence of the disturbances.

In still yet another embodiment the operational aspect relates to harmonic distortions in the electrical system subjected to a major disturbance. Harmonic distortions are characterized by non sinusoidal non linear voltage and current waveforms. Most harmonic distortions result from the generation of harmonic currents caused by nonlinear load signatures. A nonlinear load is characteristic in products such as computers printers lighting and motor controllers and much of today s solid state equipment. With the advent of power semiconductors and the use of switching power supplies the harmonics distortion problem has become more severe.

Examples of operational aspects that are indicative of harmonic distortions include but are not limited to wave shape distortions oscillations parallel and series resonance total harmonic distortion level transformer K Factor levels true RMS loading of lines transformers capacitors indicators of negative sequence harmonics being absorbed by alternating current AC motors positive negative zero angle frequency response etc.

In step the dynamic time domain model data can be modified with new UPS control logic model simulation parameters and updated to re align the virtual system model in real time so that it mirrors the real operating conditions of the facility. The modifications to the UPS parameters coupled with the ability to calibrate and age the virtual system model of the facility as it ages i.e. real time condition of the facility provides a desirable approach to predicting the operational reliability and stability of the electrical power system operating under various user defined UPS system architectures UPS control logic models and under various contingency situations. That is these modifications and updates allow a user to adjust the UPS control logic parameters used in the contingency event simulation as a way to evaluate the effectiveness of different variations of UPS control logic models at maintaining the operational reliability and stability of the electrical power system and to account for the natural aging effects of hardware that comprise the total electrical power system by continuously synchronizing and calibrating the actual operating conditions of the electrical system.

The domain model data includes data that is reflective of both the static and non static rotating components of the UPS control logic model and the virtual system model of the electrical power system. Static components are those components that are assumed to display no changes during the time in which the transient contingency event takes place. Typical time frames for disturbance in these types of elements range from a few cycles of the operating frequency of the system up to a few seconds. Examples of static components in an electrical system include but are not limited to transformers cables overhead lines reactors static capacitors etc. Non static rotating components encompass synchronous machines including their associated controls exciters governors etc induction machines compensators motor operated valves MOV turbines static var compensators fault isolation units FIU static automatic bus transfer SABT units etc. These various types of non static components can be simulated using various techniques.

In one embodiment in order to assist in the design of the most effective UPS solution to protect the electrical system and to cope with new advances in UPS equipment and system architectures the time domain model data can include UPS control logic parameters from a user defined UPS control logic model. The user defined UPS control logic model interacts with the UPS transient stability simulation engine through Interface Variables that are generated by the model. Examples of UPS interface variables include but are not limited to generator voltage values generator speed values automatic voltage regulator AVR field voltage values governor mechanical power values etc. The interface variables discussed above are provided here by way of example only in practice the interface variables can be any configuration parameter setting for any UPS control element type as long as the control element can be simulated by the UPS transient stability simulation engine. Based on the specific UPS control logic the UPS transient stability simulation engine is configured to compute predicted values for the operation of the electrical power system under normal and contingency event conditions.

The user defined UPS control logic modeling function supports a large number of pre defined control blocks functions that are used to build a multitude of different variations of UPS control logic models and put them into action in a real time environment for assessing the operational reliability and stability of the electrical power system.

In another embodiment the dynamic time domain model data step includes built in manufacturer data for the electrical equipment that comprise the UPS control elements and electrical power system. For example dynamic time domain model data for the UPS control logic and electrical power system may be OEM manufacturer supplied control logic for electrical equipment such as generators AVRs governors under load tap changing transformers relays breakers motors etc. In still another embodiment the dynamic time domain model data includes both user defined and built in dynamic model data.

Moving on to step a contingency event can be chosen out of a diverse list of contingency events to be evaluated. That is the operational reliability and stability of the UPS controls protecting the electrical power system can be assessed under a number of different contingency event scenarios including but not limited to a singular event contingency or multiple event contingencies that are simultaneous or sequenced in time . In one embodiment the contingency events assessed are manually chosen by a system administrator in accordance with user requirements. In another embodiment the contingency events assessed are automatically chosen in accordance with past observations of the operation of the UPS controls and electrical power system. That is the UPS transient stability simulation engine learns which contingency events to simulate based on past observations of the UPS controls and electrical power system operating under various conditions.

In step a transient stability analysis of the UPS controls and the electrical power system operating under the various chosen contingencies can be performed. This analysis can include identification of the UPS system architecture strengths and weaknesses and any insecure contingency conditions. That is the analysis can predict forecast the UPS system s ability to sustain power demand maintain sufficient active and reactive power reserve operate safely with minimum operating cost while maintaining an adequate level of reliability and provide an acceptably high level of power quality while being subjected to various contingency events. The results of the analysis can be stored by an associative memory engine during step to support incremental learning about the operational characteristics of the UPS controls interacting with the electrical power system. That is the results of the predictions analysis and real time data may be fed as needed into the associative memory engine for pattern and sequence recognition in order to learn about the logical realities of the UPS controls in protecting the stability and security of the power system. In certain embodiments engine can also act as a pattern recognition engine or a Hierarchical Temporal Memory HTM engine. Additionally concurrent inputs of various electrical environmental mechanical and other sensory data can be used to learn about and determine normality and abnormality of business and plant operations to provide a means of understanding failure modes and give recommendations.

In step it can be determined if the power system is operating in a deficient state when confronted with a specific contingency. If it is then in step a report is generated providing a summary of the operational stability and reliability of the system. The summary may include general predictions about the total security and stability of the system and or detailed predictions about the performance of each element that makes up the UPS controls and or the electrical system.

Alternatively if it is determined that the system is not in a deficient state in step then it can be determined on step if further contingencies needs to be evaluated. If so then the process can revert to step and further contingencies can be evaluated.

The results of the real time UPS simulations performed can be communicated in step via a report such as a print out or display of the status. In addition the information can be reported via a graphical user interface thick or thin client that illustrates the various components of the system in graphical format. In such embodiments the report can simply comprise a graphical indication of the security or insecurity of a component subsystem or system including the whole facility. The results can also be forwarded to associative memory engine where they can be stored and made available for predictions pattern sequence recognition and ability to imagine e.g. via memory agents or other techniques in step .

The process of can be applied to a number of needs including but not limited to predicting the ability of a given UPS control logic architecture to maintain electrical system stability due to motor starting and motor sequencing an example is the assessment of adequacy of a power system in emergency start up of auxiliaries evaluation of the protections such as under frequency and under voltage load shedding schemes example of this is allocation of required load shedding for a potential loss of a power generation source determination of critical clearing time of circuit breakers to maintain stability and determination of the sequence of protective device operations and interactions.

The UPS transient stability simulation engine is configured to store and process patterns observed from real time data fed from the hub and predicted data output from a real time virtual system model of the electrical system. These patterns can later be used by the UPS transient stability simulation engine to make real time predictions forecasts about the various operational aspects of the UPS controls solution and the electrical system.

The data acquisition hub is communicatively connected via data connections to a plurality of sensors that are embedded throughout the electrical power system being monitored. The data acquisition hub may be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connections are hard wired physical data connections e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensors and the hub . In another embodiment the data connections are wireless data connections. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub .

Continuing with the client is typically a conventional thin client or thick client computing device that may utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access create and or modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. the analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. the calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. the virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters etc. the virtual system model of the system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files the UPS transient stability simulation engine e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. and the UPS control logic model e.g. interface variables UPS system operating parameters etc. . Correspondingly in one embodiment the data from the various components of the UPS controls electrical system and the real time predictions forecasts about the various operational aspects of the system can be displayed on a client display panel for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent. In another embodiment the data may be summarized in a hard copy report .

As discussed above the UPS transient stability simulation engine can be configured to work in conjunction with a real time updated virtual system model of the electrical system to make predictions forecasts about certain operational aspects of a UPS system protecting the electrical system when it is subjected to a contingency event. For example in one embodiment the UPS transient stability simulation engine can be used to make predictions about the operational reliability of an electrical power system protected by a UPS controls sub system in response to contingency events such as a loss of power to the system loss of distribution lines damage to system infrastructure changes in weather conditions etc. Examples of indicators of operational reliability include but are not limited to failure rates repair rates and required availability of the power system and of the various components that make up the system etc.

In another embodiment the operational aspect relates to the voltage stability of the electrical system immediately after being subjected to a major disturbance i.e. contingency event . Generally speaking voltage instability stems from the attempts by the UPS controls and load dynamics to restore power consumption after the disturbance in a manner that is beyond the capability of the combined UPS system and the electrical transmission generation system. Examples of predicted operational aspects that are indicative of the voltage stability of an electrical system subjected to a disturbance include the total system power capacity available system power capacity and utilized system power capacity of the electrical system under being subjected to various contingencies. Simply voltage stability is the ability of the UPS controls and the electrical system to maintain acceptable voltage profiles while under the influence of the disturbances.

As discussed above the user defined UPS control logic model interacts with the UPS transient stability simulation engine through interface variables . For example during the operation of a user defined UPS control logic model a generator terminal voltage is typically measured and compared with a reference quantity voltage set point . Based on the specific UPS control logic for the excitation and AVR the UPS control logic model can then compute a predicted generator field voltage and return that value back to the UPS transient stability simulation engine for processing during the simulation.

Table A presents a list of some common pre defined UPS control blocks used to create a UPS control logic model with.

It should be appreciated however that the types of pre defined UPS control block functions listed above in Table A are provided here by way of example only. In practice the UPS control blocks can model any type of UPS control logic function as long as the UPS transient stability simulation engine can be used to simulate it.

In one embodiment a user defined UPS control logic model is built in accordance with the following detailed steps. Initially a control block diagram of the UPS control system normally provided by the manufacturer to be modeled is obtained by the user. are sample illustrations of control block diagrams for an excitation system and a turbine system respectively. The user then examines the list of pre defined UPS control functions that are supported by the UPS transient stability simulation engine to decide which control functions are needed to build the UPS control logic model depicted in the control block diagram to be modeled. Next the interface variables that facilitate the interactions between the UPS control logic model and the UPS transient stability simulation engine are identified. As discussed above examples of UPS interface variables include but are not limited to generator voltage values generator speed values automatic voltage regulator AVR field voltage variables governor mechanical power variables etc. It should be understood however that the interface variables discussed above are provided here by way of example only. In practice the interface variables can be any configuration setting for any control element type as long as the control element can be simulated by the UPS transient stability simulation engine.

The user then proceeds to identify which control block output request requires initialization. Typically the exciter reference governor load reference initial loading of the turbine and the initial value of integrator blocks require initialization. Once the required UPS control functions have been chosen and the interface variables identified and classified according to initialization requirement then the UPS control logic model can be assembled and created. The newly created UPS control logic model can then be added to either the AVR or governor library and is ready to be tested by the UPS transient stability simulation engine under various contingency conditions.

In one embodiment the interface variables of the control system are initialized in accordance with the following steps and operations. First the boundary conditions are identified. Examples of boundary conditions include but are not limited to generator terminal voltages generator field voltages generator mechanical power generator speed frequency etc. Where applicable the Laplace symbol in the control blocks are set to zero. For example the LEAD LAG block can be reduced to a block gain of one i.e. initial output initial input . Typically this process works from known boundary conditions inwards to initialize other variables. Once the integrator block 1 s is reached the input is set to zero this is due to the fact that in steady state the input to an integrator has to be zero in order for the output to be in steady state . At this point an attempt can be made to find the output of the block from the known boundary conditions.

All interface variables are typically presented on a per unit p.u. basis on the generator base e.g. the terminal voltage in p.u. mechanical power in p.u. etc. . However the user can still within the control system use actual values if necessary. For example if the AVR control requires that the terminal voltage be in volts the field voltage can also be computed in terms of volts. This is done by simply introducing a gain block right after the terminal voltage with a gain equal to the conversion factor between a p.u. unit and a volt. The symbols and i represent addition subtraction multiplication and division respectively and should not be used in the name of any output variables or parameters. and can be used to group an expression for defining the initial conditions. The number of open parentheses should match the number of closed parentheses . Symbols VTO EFD PM and FREQ are reserved names and can be used to define expressions. These symbols represent the initial conditions value at time zero of the generator voltage in p.u. the generator field voltage in p.u. generator mechanical power in p.u. and generator speed p.u. respectively. These symbols can also be used to provide the initial values for other output initial conditions. Any other symbols used in defining an express should be defined as parameters in the control function blocks.

The UPS system is designed to provide continuous and clean electrical power to critical loads within the electrical power system. Also the UPS system is configured to monitor power conditions affecting that load. In the event of input power failure the UPS can be configured to supply power support the critical load in the electrical system for a period up to the specified life of the UPS battery. If the input power is not restored promptly to the electrical system back up power from the UPS battery can allow the orderly shutdown of sensitive equipment on the electrical system that is supported by the UPS.

The UPS can provide two power paths between the source utility and the critical load a normal power path and a bypass power path. is an illustration of the power path in a UPS system module during a normal operation mode in accordance with one embodiment. As shown in the power path travels from the AC input i.e. utility to the rectifier and then the inverter respectively. The rectifier is configured to convert the input AC power to DC power. DC power is normally used to charge the UPS battery and provide power to the inverter . The inverter is configured to convert the DC power to clean AC power to supply the critical load output . The conversion and inversion process eliminates any voltage transients or fluctuations existing in the AC input power before it reaches the critical load . Typically source and load side are working asynchronously. In the event of failure of the UPS system module power will still be continually supplied to the critical load by distributing the burden throughout the other UPS system modules protecting the electrical system. In the event of a load over current spike the UPS system will switch to a bypass mode without interrupting power to the critical load.

The embodiments described herein can be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

It should also be understood that the embodiments described herein can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations that form part of the embodiments described herein are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The systems and methods described herein can be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The embodiments described herein can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Certain embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although a few embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail herein it should be understood by those of ordinary skill that the present invention may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the present examples and embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details provided therein but may be modified and practiced within the scope of the appended claims.

