---

title: Automatic reading tutoring using dynamically built language model
abstract: A method of providing automatic reading tutoring is disclosed. The method includes retrieving a textual indication of a story from a data store and creating a language model including constructing a target context free grammar indicative of a first portion of the story. A first acoustic input is received and a speech recognition engine is employed to recognize the first acoustic input. An output of the speech recognition engine is compared to the language model and a signal indicative of whether the output of the speech recognition matches at least a portion of the target context free grammar is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08306822&OS=08306822&RS=08306822
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08306822
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070911
---
It is well recognized that reading is an important skill for all people including children and that reading ability is a fundamental skill without which success in today s world is extremely difficult. The reading level of children is an important measurement of a society s overall education. However in both developed and developing countries there is evidence that an insufficient number of teachers exist to provide effective reading tutoring for young children and others who may be first learning to read.

Because of the importance of reading as a basic building block for the education of all peoples especially children and because of the lack of available human resources to provide adequate tutoring for all students there is an ongoing need to provide automated systems and methods that can tutor students in the development of their reading skills.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In one illustrative embodiment a method of providing automatic reading tutoring is disclosed. The method includes retrieving a textual indication of a story from a data store and creating a language model including constructing a target context free grammar indicative of a first portion of the story. The method further includes receiving a first acoustic input and employing a speech recognition engine to recognize the first acoustic input. An output of the speech recognition engine is compared to the language model and a signal is provided to a user interface indicative of whether the output of the speech recognition matches at least a portion of the target context free grammar.

In another illustrative embodiment another method of providing automatic reading tutoring is discussed. The method includes receiving a textual indication of a story building a target context free grammar at runtime based on a portion of the textual indication and prompting a user for an utterance. The method provides a received acoustic signal of the user s utterance to a speech recognition engine. An output from the speech recognition engine is compared to the target context free grammar and an indication of the comparison is stored in a data store.

In still another illustrative embodiment a system for providing automatic reading tutoring is discussed. The system includes a portable hardware device an operating system layer installed on the portable hardware device including a speech recognition engine and an application layer including a language model with a target context free grammar configured to be compiled at runtime.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

Several different types of devices have the capability of providing computing power memory and the like. One example of such a device is illustrated in and will be described in more detail below. Implementing the automatic reading tutoring system on a hardware device such as a desktop personal computer though has some distinct disadvantages. For example it is difficult for a young child to operate desktop based computing systems without guidance from a teacher parent or other adult. In addition use of such a system is often limited to classroom situations. Students often wear headphones in group settings which can cause problems by introducing noise and distortions to speech signals when children play with them or move them as they tend to do. Furthermore because access to desktop personal computers may be limited to classroom situations the amount of time that students can use the automatic reading tutoring system when implemented on a desktop personal computer may be limited to classroom time. Furthermore it has been found that input devices such as keyboards and mice can be difficult for children to operate.

To overcome some of these challenges in one illustrative embodiment the hardware device is illustratively a hand held device such as a tablet personal computer or other similar type of device. Such a device illustratively includes an integrated display thereby providing an output device . Furthermore such devices can include input devices such as an integrated microphone array including any number of microphones integrated into the device and a touch sensitive input area to receive input from a stylus or via direct physical contact by the user.

The operating system layer illustratively includes an operating system a speech recognition engine and a speech application programming interface SAPI . The operating system can be any known operating system including for example various versions of Microsoft Windows operating systems manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The speech recognition engine illustratively supports both dictation and command and control grammars and accesses an acoustic model which includes information that the speech recognition engine employs to recognize speech and convert the speech to a textual representation of thereof. The acoustic model is illustratively trained to recognize specific types of speech. Children s speech is very different from that of adults because children have immature articulation apparatuses and language skills. Furthermore as a child ages his or her articulation apparatuses and language skills change this is to say mature. Thus the acoustic model data store illustratively includes acoustic models trained from a large amount of children s speech data.

The SAPI is illustratively implemented in the operating system layer and is exposed to the application layer to provide an interface between an application and the operating system and more specifically between an application and the speech recognition engine . The SAPI can be any acceptable API capable of providing a proper speech recognition interface.

The application layer is illustratively composed of two parts an API illustratively named RecoLib.DLL that is exposed to the application and is also capable of interfacing with the operating system layer and an application user interface which illustratively provides a number of functions related to interactions made by the user via the application . The API illustratively calls the SAPI to engage the speech recognition engine for the purposes of performing speech recognition. The API includes a target context free grammar that is robust and efficient. The target context free grammar is illustratively dynamically built for every particular application and is capable of detecting reading miscues when working with the trained acoustic model . The context free grammar is capable of accessing a garbage model which the target context free grammar uses to detect reading miscues.

The language model is efficient because both target context free grammar and garbage model . The size of the target context free grammar is small on the order of only kilo bytes because the current story text paragraph or sentence is short so the building procedure can be done at runtime when a particular sentence in a story is encountered. The size of the garbage model can be selected with different levels of complexity from trigram bigram to unigram. Experiments have shown only small differences in detection and false alarm rates using different orders in the garbage model . A further strength of the garbage model is that it can be shared by different sentences or paragraphs which can save loading overhead in runtime. Using this efficient language model enables achievable real time word level tracking on hand held devices.

Language model is also robust in detecting reading miscues because the garbage model is illustratively composed of most common words in English so that it can absorb all words not matched by context free grammar . Even for out of vocabulary words or sub word level reading miscues the garbage model can also absorb them by outputting words that are acoustically similar.

The application layer also includes an application user interface . The application user interface illustratively includes three engines a scaffolding engine a tracking engine and a profiling engine . The scaffolding engine illustratively provides online help information to teach a user how to pronounce a word read a whole sentence or explain the meaning of a word. The scaffolding engine accesses a reading book data store which includes stories to be read by a user including animation video audio and text elements associated displaying a story on an output device . The scaffolding engine illustratively communicates with output devices to provide indications of the elements to the appropriate devices. The scaffolding engine is also illustratively capable of accessing dictionary data store which stores information related to word level scaffolding information including pronunciations lexicons grapheme phoneme mappings sight words lists or function words list.

The tracking engine is capable of tracking a user s oral reading of a story in real time speed. The tracking engine illustratively provides information to a display identifying the next word to be pronounced. In addition the tracking engine detects any reading miscues including stops pauses mispronunciations and partial pronunciations.

The profiling engine illustratively measures and reports the progress of the users including providing information regarding reading fluency level new vocabulary learned testing scores and the like. The profiling engine is capable of accessing a user profile data store which illustratively includes information related to persons who have used the product such as a reading level of the user reading progress or how the user has progress from one level to the next a list of words that the user has had difficulty with or any other information that might be useful including preference settings for the user interface. The profiling engine illustratively accesses the stored information in the user profiles data store to write or read data related to a particular user.

When the story is load into the application at least a portion of the beginning of the story is displayed so that a user can begin to read the story. The application retrieves the next sentence from the story which in this case is the first sentence. This is illustrated by block . By retrieving the sentence it is loaded into memory and is highlighted on the display so that the user knows that the selected sentence is to be read next.

Once a sentence is selected a context free grammar is created to represent the target context free grammar . This is represented by block . In one illustrative embodiment the target context free grammar is limited in size to one sentence at a time. Alternatively it can be larger or smaller as is advantageous.

The automatic reading tutoring system then prepares to receive a sound indication as is indicated at block . If at block a sound is received the automatic reading tutoring system performs speech recognition to determine whether sound is an utterance. This is indicated at block .

At decision block it is determined whether the correct word that is the next word in the sentence was uttered. If it was that result is tracked as illustrated at block and the method then checks to see if the sentence has been completed by the user. This is illustrated at block . If the sentence is completed the method checks to see whether the story is complete at block . If the story is complete the method is ended. If the story is not completed the method returns to block to retrieve the next sentence.

Returning to block if the sentence is not completed the method returns to block to prepare to receive the next sound indication. Returning to block if the correct word was not uttered the result is tracked including whether the word was mispronounced partially pronounced or the like. If the user has requested help at block help is provided to the user. Help can be given in the form of audible visual or other indications. After help is provided the method then returns to block to prepare to receive a sound indication.

The embodiments discussed above provide several advantages. For example previously reported systems for automatic reading tutoring are mainly targeting on desktop based scenarios where children still need to sit in front of the desktop computing systems wear a headset and use the system under the watch of teachers or parents as in regular classroom studies. Because there is limited classroom time and or the need of adult supervision to assist young children to use desktop computing systems this scenario limits the amount of time available for children s reading practice.

In addition the use of headset usually causes difficulties for children since they tend to play with it and it easily adds noise and distortions into the speech signals due to common misplacement and movement of the headset. The embodiments discussed above build an automatic reading tutoring system which targets on hand held devices with a stylus and built in microphone array. With such an un tethered system children will have better accessibility and flexibility in practice and may have more freedom and a greater degree of personalization for themselves instead of being watched by their parents or teachers all the time. It is also easier for children to use a stylus than mouse keyboard to operate a device.

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

