---

title: Providing human capital management software application as enterprise services
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including systems and computer program products, for a service architecture design that provides enterprise services having human capital management functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations, process components, and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671034&OS=08671034&RS=08671034
owner: SAP AG
number: 08671034
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071231
---
This specification relates to data processing systems implemented on computers and more particularly to data processing systems providing human capital management services in the nature of web services.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

Web services are one technology for making the functionality of software applications available to other software including other applications. A web service is a standards based way of encapsulating the functionality of an application that other applications can locate and access. A service oriented architecture is a distributed software model within which functionality is defined as independent web services. Within a service oriented architecture web services can be used in defined sequences according to business logic to form applications that enable business processes.

This specification describes a service architecture design that provides enterprise services having human capital management functionality at the level of an enterprise application. Enterprise services are web services that have an enterprise level business value.

In its various aspects the software architecture design can be embodied in systems methods and computer program products. For example a system in one embodiment implements a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having human capital management functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations process components and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The elements of the architecture include the business object the process component the service operation or simply the operation the service interface the message and the deployment unit. The elements can also include process agents and reuse service components. These will be generally described below.

In some implementations the software is implemented to be deployed on an application platform that includes a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that can used from multiple deployment units. These entities can be process components business objects or reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements enterprise application service interfaces. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit. It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object. A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects.

A business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content and instances of business objects include content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Whether an object as a type or an instance of an object is intended by the term object is generally clear from the context so the distinction will be made explicitly only when necessary. Also for convenience and brevity an object instance may be described in this specification as being or including a real world event activity item or the like however such description should be understood as stating that the object instance represents i.e. contains data representing the respective event activity item or the like. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . A mass data run object is an application object that executes an algorithm for a particular mass data run and generally has a name that includes run . An instance of a mass data run object embodies or includes a particular set of selections and parameters. A mass data run object implements an algorithm that modifies manages and or processes a large amount of data in multiple transactions possibly but not necessarily with parallel processing. A dependent object is a business object used as a reuse part in another business object. A dependent object represents a concept that cannot stand by itself from a business point of view. Instances of dependent objects only occur in the context of a non dependent business object. A transformed object is a transformation of multiple business objects for a well defined purpose. It transforms the structure of multiple business objects into a common structure. A transformed object does not have its own persistency.

The architectural elements also include the process component. A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects. Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation. An operation belongs to exactly one process component. A process component generally has multiple operations. Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents which will be described below. An operation is the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters or some combination of them serving as a signature. For convenience in supporting use of the operations supported by a system implementing elements of the design such a system can optionally include a repository of service descriptions that includes a standards based description of each of the supported service operations.

The architectural elements also optionally include the service interface which may be referred to simply as an interface. An interface is a named group of operations. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface. An interface belongs to exactly one process component. A process component might contain multiple interfaces. In some implementations an interface will have only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can include both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will preferably belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations to the same other process component are in one interface.

The architectural elements also include the message. Operations transmit and receive messages. Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component.

The architectural elements also include the process agent. Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages. Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. A process agent can be associated with one or more operations. Process agents can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous. Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object.

An outbound process agent will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the agent or caused the agent to be called. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit. A deployment unit includes one or more process components and optionally one or more business objects that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a deployment unit boundary defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit.

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interactions i.e. interactions between process components involving their respective business objects operations interfaces and messages within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original.

Interactions between process components that occur only within a deployment unit are not constrained to using service operations. These can be implemented in any convenient fashion.

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units. Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are preferably assigned to their respective deployment unit.

As shown in a Human Capital Management deployment unit includes a Personnel Administration process component a Time and Labor Management process component a Compensation Management process component an Employee Payroll Administration process component and one or more country specific employer regulatory compliance process components e.g. a DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component an IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component a DK Employer Regulatory Compliance a NL Employer Regulatory Compliance a SG Employer Regulatory Compliance an AU Employer Regulatory Compliance a CH Employer Regulatory Compliance a ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance an AT Employer Regulatory Compliance an IN Employer Regulatory Compliance and a CA Employer Regulatory Compliance

The Personnel Administration process component includes a Personnel Hiring business object a Personnel Transfer business object a Personnel Leaving business object a Maternity Protection business object a Parental Leave business object and a Special Leave business object .

The Time and Labor Management process component includes an Employee Time Valuation Period Closure Run mass data run object a Working Time Model master data object an Employee Time Recording View transformed object an Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document business object an Employee Time Account business object an Employee Time Valuation business object an Employee Time Calendar business object an Employee Time Account Maintenance Request business object an Employee Time Confirmation Worklist business object an Employee Time Agreement master data object an Employee Time business object an Employee Time Confirmation View of Project business object and a Working Time Model Catalog business object .

The Compensation Management process component includes an Employee Compensation Agreement master data object and a Compensation Structure master data object .

The Employee Payroll Administration Process Component includes an Employee Payroll Agreement business object and a Human Capital Management View of Payroll Process business object .

The DE Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes a DE Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and a DE Employee Social Insurance master data object

As shown in the FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business process data object .

The US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a US Employee Tax Arrangement business object

The CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object and a CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object.

The IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes an IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object and an IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object .

The GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object and a GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object .

The DK Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes a DK Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and a DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object

The NL Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes a NL Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and a NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object

As shown in the SG Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes a SG Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and a SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object

The AU Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes an AU Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and an AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement master data object

The CH Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes a CH Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and a CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object

The ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes a ZA Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and a ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object

The AT Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes an AT Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and an AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object

The IN Employer Regulatory Compliance Process Component includes an IN Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and an IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object

The CA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes a CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object

As shown in several business objects located in the foundation layer can also be included in the architectural elements. The foundation layer business objects include a Work Agreement master data object an Employment master data object and a Compensation Component Type master data object .

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include a Data Migration System external process component and a Payroll Processing process component .

The Compensation Management process component includes the Employee Compensation Agreement master data object and the Compensation Structure business object . The Employee Compensation Agreement master data object represents an agreement between an employer and an employee detailing compensation components that are relevant to the employee such as base salary one time and recurring payments and payments for employee benefits. Additionally part of the agreement can be an assignment of a compensation structure which shall be valid for the employee. The Compensation Structure master data object represents an organized structure of pay grade ranges. A pay grade range reflects the value of tasks and activities in the company. Employees can be assigned to a pay grade range based on the tasks and activities they perform. A Compensation Structure business object can be company specific or can be predefined according to pay scale regulations.

As shown in the Data Migration System external process component can invoke a Create Employee Compensation Agreement operation . The Create Employee Compensation Agreement operation is included in an Employee Compensation Agreement Migration In interface . The Create Employee Compensation Agreement operation creates an employee compensation agreement. The Create Employee Compensation Agreement operation uses an inbound process agent to update the Employee Compensation Agreement master data object . An update in the Employee Compensation Agreement master data object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent . The asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Employee Compensation Agreement operation . The Notify of Employee Compensation Agreement operation is included in an Employee Compensation Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of Employee Compensation Agreement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component about the agreement between an employer and an employee detailing compensation components that are relevant to the employee.

The Time and Labor Management process component includes an Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document business object and an Employee Time Confirmation View of Project business object . The Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document business object represents a view on a business transaction document specifying a sold or purchased service that is relevant for employee time confirmation. The Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document business object represent a view of a business transaction document specifying sold or purchased services that are relevant for employee time confirmations. The Employee Time Confirmation View of Project business object represents a view on a project containing those project tasks for which employee times are confirmed.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component can invoke a Maintain operation . The Maintain operation creates changes or deletes an employee time confirmation view of service transaction document. The operation is included in an Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document Management In interface . The Maintain operation uses an inbound process agent to update the Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document business object .

The Project Processing process component can invoke a Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Project operation . The Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Project operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation In interface . The Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Project operation updates the employee time confirmation view of project based on changes of a Project business object in the Project Processing process component . The Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Project operation can use an inbound process agent to update the Employee Time Confirmation View of Project business object .

The Time and Labor Management process component includes the Employee Time Valuation Period Closure Run mass data run object . The Employee Time Valuation Period Closure Run mass data run object is an automatic run for creating period closure dates in employee time valuations of selected employees.

The Time and Labor Management process component also includes the Working Time Model master data object and the Employee Time Recording View transformed object . The Working Time Model master data object is an employee independent structured description of working times. In addition to working times it can also describe absence times break times and availability times. The Employee Time Recording View transformed object is a view of several times of one employee for recording purposes. The Time and Labor Management process component also includes the Employee Time Valuation business object the Employee Time Account Maintenance Request business object the Employee Time Confirmation Worklist business object and the Employee Time business object . The Employee Time Valuation business object represents the object responsible for the execution of valuation of employee times and other time management documents such as employee time account maintenance requests for one internal or external employee. The Employee Time Account Maintenance Request business object represents a request to create modify or cancel an employee time account. The Employee Time Account Maintenance Request business object can request an increase or reduction of the times of one employee time account a transfer of times from one employee time account to another a payout of times or a creation or cancellation of an employee time account. When valuating the request the system creates new line items in employee time accounts.

The Employee Time Confirmation Worklist business object represents a list of work items that are assigned to an employee and that are to be used to confirm the employee times. An employee time is a document concerning the planned and actual working times of an internal or external employee of the company. The work items can include project processing or accounting information but typically does not include the actual times. The Employee Time business object represents a recorded document of the working times of an internal or external employee. In addition to planned and actual working times and activities carried out for the company the Employee Time business object may also document absence times break times and availability times. The Working Time Model Catalog business object is a structured directory of the available working time models. The availability can be restricted to parts of the organization for individual parts of the catalog.

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes the Employee Time Calendar business object . The Employee Time Calendar business object represents a read only calendar representation of the time valuation results determined by time evaluation from recorded time documents for an employee. The Employee Time Calendar business object can send notifications to a number of process components including the Accounting process component the Project Processing process component and the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component .

An update in the Employee Time Calendar business object triggers an outbound process agent an outbound process agent or an outbound process agent . If the outbound process agent is triggered either a Notify of Service Provision operation or a Notify of Service Provision Cancellation operation is invoked. Both operations and are included in a Service Provision Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Service Provision operation notifies the Accounting process component of actual service provided and actual time spent on performing the service. The Notify of Service Provision Cancellation operation notifies the Accounting process component that a provided service has been cancelled. This notification is sent when an active employee time that contains information relevant for accounting is cancelled.

If the outbound process agent is triggered a Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation is invoked. The Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation Out interface . The Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation notifies the Project Processing process component of a project task confirmation or a project task status change. This notification is sent when an active employee time with project relevant information is created changed or cancelled in an active employee time.

If the outbound process agent is triggered either a Notify of Internal Acknowledgement operation or a Notify of Internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation is invoked. Both operations and are included in an Internal Acknowledgement Out interface . The Notify of Internal Acknowledgement operation notifies the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component of a service provided by an external employee. This notification is sent when an active employee time with goods and service acknowledgement relevant information is created changed or cancelled. The Notify of Internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation notifies the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component of the cancellation of an externally provided service. This cancellation is sent when an active employee time with goods and service acknowledgement relevant information is cancelled.

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes the Employee Time Account business object and the Employee Time Agreement master data object . The Employee Time Account business object is a summary of valuated employee times and of periodic valuations administered by employee time valuation. The Employee Time Agreement master data object is an agreement between employer and employee consisting of time management stipulations that are derived from legal company specific and pay related provisions and from terms agreed individually with the employee.

An update in the Employee Time Calendar business object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Employee Time Calendar operation . The operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding changes to an employee time calendar. The Notify of Employee Time Calendar operation is included in an Employee Time Calendar and Account in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface .

An update in the Employee Time Account business object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Employee Time Account operation . The operation is included in the Employee Time Calendar and Account in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of Employee Time Account operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding changes to an employee time account.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke a Create Employee Time Information operation . The Create Employee Time Information operation is included in an Employee Time Information Migration In interface . The Create Employee Time Information operation converts information about an employee s time data that is to be migrated from a legacy system to the Time and Labor Management process component . The Create Employee Time Information operation uses an inbound process agent to update the Employee Time Agreement master data object or an Employee Time business object or an Employee Time Account Maintenance Request business object . An update in the Employee Time Agreement master data object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Planned Working Times operation that notifies the country specific Employee Payroll Input business object about planned working times. The operation is included in an Employee Time Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of Planned Working Times operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding planned working times.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component .

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke a Create Employment operation . The Create Employment operation is included in an Employment Migration In . The Create Employee Time Information operation converts information about an Employment which is to be migrated from a legacy system into employment. The Create Employment operation uses an inbound process agent to update the Personnel Hiring business object or the Personnel Transfer business object .

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object and the CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of the People s Republic of China that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of the People s Republic of China. The CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object contains information recorded from the tax card supplied to the employee e.g. tax ID tax area and employee tax type and supplementary details e.g. indicator for a tax agreement indicator for tax paid by employer and indicator for tax exempted . The CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents the arrangement for the employee by the Chinese bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions and benefits. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Chinese social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Chinese Social Insurance authorities. The CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object contains information required for the different types of social insurance contributions e.g. pension insurance unemployment insurance on the job injury insurance maternity insurance public housing fund and medical care insurance to various public and private insurance bodies.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke a Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in an Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation triggers an inbound process agent to update the CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the CN Employee Tax Arrangement business object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CN Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a CN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of CN Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a Chinese employee.

An update in the CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the CN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of CN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a Chinese employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the DE Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The DE Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement by the German tax authority for the employee concerning calculation and reporting of income tax deductions according to German legal requirements. The DE Employee Tax Arrangement master data object contains parameters recorded from the tax card supplied to the employee e.g. tax authority tax class number of child tax exemptions supplementary details e.g. tax table to be used special rules and details from previous employments in the current tax year that are relevant for year to date amounts. The DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by the German bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions and benefits. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of German social insurance contributions and reporting according to the German data entry and transfer regulation DEUEV . The DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object contains parameters required for the different types of social insurance contributions e.g. health insurance pension insurance unemployment insurance and nursing insurance to various public and private insurance bodies.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the DE Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the DE Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of DE Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a DE Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of DE Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a German employee tax arrangement.

An update in the DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the DE Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of DE Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a German employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the US Employee Tax Arrangement business object . The US Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents the definitions of parameters for an employee that are needed for calculation and reporting of withholding tax deductions according to US federal state and local legal requirements. The US Employee Tax Arrangement business object contains parameters for the different withholding tax jurisdictions including any information submitted by the employee e.g. federal Form W 4 state Form W 4 . This also records information on any exemptions from specific components of taxation e.g. FICA FUTA . Additionally information required for calculation of state unemployment insurance tax is recorded within the US Employee Tax Arrangement master data object

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the US Employee Tax Arrangement business object . An update in the US Employee Tax Arrangement business object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of US Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a US Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of US Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for an American employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object is the arrangement for the employee by all responsible French bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of French social insurance contributions and reporting according to the French legal requirements. The FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object contains information required for the different types of social insurance contributions e.g. health insurance pension insurance unemployment insurance and disability insurance to various public and private bodies. This information depends of the jurisdictions of these bodies e.g. state region several regions . The FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object contains the list of the social insurance contributions and to which body it must be paid. These bodies include state health insurance URSSAF state unemployment insurance ASSEDIC public and private pension insurance providers and other public or private insurance providers and each body has his corresponding jurisdiction.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . An update in the FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent . The asynchronous outbound process agent calls a Notify of FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation included in a FR Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of FR Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a French employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object and the GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents an arrangement by the United Kingdom tax authority for the employee concerning calculation and reporting of income tax deductions according to United Kingdom legal requirements. The GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object contains information recorded from the tax card supplied to the employee e.g. tax code tax basis supplementary details e.g. indicator of refunds withheld and details from previous employments in the current tax year that are relevant for year to date amounts. The GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents an arrangement for the employee by United Kingdom social insurance authority concerning calculation and reporting of contributions according to the United Kingdom legal requirements. The GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object contains information of category certificate held indicator and company director indicators required for social insurance contributions to Her Majesty s Revenue and Customs HMRC .

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation triggers the inbound process agent to update the GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the GB Employee Tax Arrangement business object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of GB Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a GB Employer Regulatory Compliance in a Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of GB Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a British employee.

An update in the GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the GB Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of GB Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a British employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object and the IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . The IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents the arrangement by the responsible tax authorities for the employee concerning calculation and reporting of income tax deductions according to Italian legal requirements. The IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object contains parameters recorded to the employee e.g. tax authorities tax classes taxation type to be used supplementary details e.g. declared income number of family members . The IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object represents the arrangement for the employee by the Italian bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions and benefits. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Italian social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Italian s Social Insurance bodies. It contains basically the list of the social insurance contributions and to which body it must be paid.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation triggers the inbound process agent to update the IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the IT Employee Tax Arrangement business object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IT Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an IT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of IT Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for an Italian employee.

An update in the IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the IT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of IT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for an Italian employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The DK Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the DK Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The DK Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Denmark that define the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Denmark. The DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible Danish bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Danish social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Danish legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the DK Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the DK Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of DK Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a DK Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of DK Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a Danish employee.

An update in the DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the DK Employer Regulatory Compliance in payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of DK Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a Danish employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The NL Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the NL Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The NL Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of the Netherlands that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Netherlands. The NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible Dutch bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Dutch social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Netherlands legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the NL Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the NL Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of NL Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a NL Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of NL Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a Dutch employee.

An update in the NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the NL Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of NL Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a Dutch employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The SG Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the SG Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The SG Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of the Singapore that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Singapore. The SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible Singaporean bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Singaporean social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Singapore legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the SG Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the SG Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of SG Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a SG Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of SG Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a Singaporean employee.

An update in the SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the SG Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of SG Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a Singaporean employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The AU Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the AU Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement master data object . The AU Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Australia that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Australia. The AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible Australian bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Australia pension insurance contributions and reporting according to the Australian legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the AU Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the AU Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AU Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an AU Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of AU Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for an Australian employee.

An update in the AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the AU Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of AU Employee Pension Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed pension insurance data for an Australian employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The CH Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the CH Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The CH Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of the Switzerland that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Switzerland. The CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible Switzerland bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Switzerland social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Switzerland legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the CH Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the CH Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CH Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a CH Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of CH Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a Swiss employee.

An update in the CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the CH Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of CH Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a Swiss employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the ZA Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The ZA Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of South Africa that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of South Africa. The ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible South African bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of South African social insurance contributions and reporting according to the South African legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the ZA Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the ZA Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of ZA Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of ZA Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a South African employee.

An update in the ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of ZA Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for a South African employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The AT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the AT Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The AT Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and tax authorities of the Austria that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Austria. The AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible Austria bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Austria social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Austria legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the AT Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the AT Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AT Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an AT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of AT Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for an Austrian employee.

An update in the AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the AT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of AT Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for an Austrian employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The CA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object . The CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object represents the arrangement between the employee and the tax authorities of Canada that defines the rules of how the employer must calculate and report taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of Canada.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke a Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in an Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses an inbound process agent to update the CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object . An update in the CA Employee Tax Arrangement business object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of CA Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in a CA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of CA Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for a Canadian employee.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The Employee Payroll Administration process component includes the Employee Payroll Agreement master data object and the Human Capital Management View of Payroll Process business object . The Employee Payroll Agreement master data object represents an agreement between the employer and employee concerning the personal conditions for payroll processing that determine the fundamental differentials of the payroll behavior for the employee. The Human Capital Management View of Payroll Process business object represents a view from the Human Capital Management deployment unit of a payroll process.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke a Create Employee Payroll Agreement operation . The Create Employee Payroll Agreement operation is included Employee Payroll Agreement Migration In interface . The Create Employee Payroll Agreement operation converts information about payroll agreement data of an employee which is to be migrated from a legacy system into employee payroll administration. The Create Employee Payroll Agreement operation uses an inbound process agent to update the Employee Payroll Agreement master data object . An update in the Employee Payroll Agreement master data object triggers an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Employee Payroll Agreement operation . The operation is included in an Employee Payroll Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of Employee Payroll Agreement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding changes to an employee payroll agreement.

The Payroll Processing process component can invoke a Maintain Collection of Payroll Process Views operation . The Maintain Collection of Payroll Process Views operation is included in a Payroll Process Employee Payroll Administration Notification In interface . The Maintain Collection of Payroll Process Views operation notifies the view of the payroll process in the Human Capital Management deployment unit of changes from the Payroll Processing process component . The Maintain Collection of Payroll Process Views operation uses an inbound process agent to update the Human Capital Management View of Payroll Process business object .

The Human Capital Master Data Management process component includes a Work Agreement master data object an Employment master data object and a Compensation Component Type master data object . The Work Agreement master data object represents a contract between an employer and an employee by means of which the employee is obliged to provide his or her labor while the employer is obliged to provide the agreed compensation. The Employment master data object represents a relationship which comes into being by virtue of one or more valid work agreements. The Employment master data object encompasses the entire legal relationship between contracting parties. The Compensation Component Type master data object represents types that divide up compensation components. The Compensation Component Type master data object can include a description of the employee compensation components in the context of human resources.

For convenience in describing this process component a number of other process components are shown in the figure these other process components are not part of the process component being described. These other process components are used to represent software external to the process component in describing its interactions with the external software however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. These other process components include the Data Migration System external process component and the Payroll Processing process component .

The IN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component includes the IN Employee Tax Arrangement master data object and the IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object . The IN Employee Tax Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement between the employee and tax authorities of the India that defines the rules of how the employer calculates and reports taxes for this employee to be compliant with the legal requirements of India. The IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object represents the arrangement for the employee by all responsible Indian bodies that are legally responsible for administering the employee s social insurance contributions. This arrangement concerns the information required for calculation of Indian social insurance contributions and reporting according to the Indian legal requirements.

The Data Migration System external process component can invoke the Create Employee Arrangements operation . The Create Employee Arrangements operation is included in the Employee Migration In interface . The Create Employee Arrangements operation creates business objects for employee arrangements. The Create Employee Arrangements operation uses the inbound process agent to update the IN Employee Tax Arrangement business object or the IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement business object . An update in the IN Employee Tax Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IN Employee Tax Arrangement operation . The operation is included in an IN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of IN Employee Tax Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed tax data for an Indian employee.

An update in the IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement master data object triggers an outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation . The operation is included in the IN Employer Regulatory Compliance in the Payroll Input Maintenance Out interface . The Notify of IN Employee Social Insurance Arrangement operation sends a notification to the Payroll Processing process component regarding new or changed social insurance data for an Indian employee.

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the specification or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the specification. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

