---

title: Fixture alignment method for antenna array foundations
abstract: A method of aligning a fixture for holding an alignment telescope with an antenna array foundation. In one embodiment, the method includes mounting a fixture for holding an alignment telescope proximate to a first location on an edge of an antenna array foundation, projecting a laser beam outwards from the fixture towards a second location on the edge of the antenna array foundation, and aligning the fixture with the edge at the second location using the laser beam. The fixture may be aligned with the edge of the foundation by adjusting the position of the fixture in relation to the foundation so that the laser beam strikes the foundation edge at the second location, thereby producing a visible laser spot on the edge. The procedure may be repeated to align a plurality of spaced-apart foundation edge locations with the fixture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07669339&OS=07669339&RS=07669339
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07669339
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071129
---
This invention was made with Government Support under Contract No. N00024 03 C 5115 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to fixed phase array antennas and more particularly to an improved method for aligning fixtures for holding alignment telescopes with antenna array foundations.

To install large fixed phased array antennas such as those used on naval vessels the flatness of the foundation to which the arrays are mounted is one important factor. If the profile of the antenna array mounting flange does not match the foundation system performance may be adversely affected. Accordingly the foundation profile must be precisely measured at the antenna array mounting holes so that shims of proper thickness may be fabricated to achieve a proper fitment. The mounting flanges of some large antenna arrays may typically be on the order of approximately 12 14 feet across and have bolting patterns of comparable size. Foundations for these arrays typically are oriented at about 15 tilted back from vertical and comprised of heavy steel plate having a large central opening and a plurality of mounting holes for receiving bolts for mounting the array.

To take the foundation profile measurements an optical alignment telescope is used which heretofore has been held in a fixture temporarily mounted near the center of foundation opening. This location is not generally accessible from a permanent regular access deck or walkway and usually is approximately 10 12 feet up in the air. This requires a temporary scaffold to be erected inside the antenna array equipment room for access. Before shim measurements may be taken however the telescope fixture must be precisely aligned or bucked in with the foundation so that accurate flatness measurements can be obtained parallel to the plane or face of the foundation. Conventional fixture alignment methods have relied on complex and time consuming optical based procedures requiring a minimum of two technicians. One technician works the alignment telescope from the scaffold inside the antenna array equipment room while another technician is positioned on a scaffold outside the equipment room. The outside technician is equipped with a ruler or scale which alternatingly is held at a minimum of three different locations around the central foundation opening while the inside technician observes the measurements at each location. The fixture is then adjusted and measurements are repeated multiple times until the fixture is finally optically aligned with the foundation. This procedure typically takes an hour or more to buck in the fixture before shim flatness measurement can be started and is an arduous task.

Accordingly an improved method of aligning or bucking in an alignment telescope fixture with an antenna array foundation is desired.

The present invention overcomes the foregoing problems by providing a method of using a laser to align or buck in an alignment telescope fixture with an antenna array foundation. According to one aspect of the invention a preferred method advantageously allows the fixture to be mounted directly onto the foundation itself at the bottom of the central opening which is accessible by the technician from a permanent regular deck or walkway thereby eliminating the need for a temporary scaffold inside the antenna array equipment room. In addition the preferred method of fixture installation and alignment can be accomplished by a single technician in less than one hour and typically about 15 minutes or less. Fixture alignment can be completed in 5 minutes or less. Since there are usually multiple antenna arrays that require foundation flatness shim measurements a substantial reduction in time and labor to complete the fixture alignment procedure for each array can be realized.

In one embodiment a method for aligning a fixture for holding an alignment telescope with an antenna array foundation includes mounting the fixture for holding an alignment telescope proximate to a first location on an edge of an antenna array foundation projecting a laser beam outwards from the fixture towards a second location on the edge of the antenna array foundation and aligning the fixture with the edge at the second location using the laser beam. The aligning step in one embodiment preferably includes adjusting the fixture in relation to the foundation so that the laser beam strikes the edge at the second location. The method may further include the steps of projecting the laser beam towards a third location on the edge of the antenna array foundation and aligning the fixture with the edges at both second and third locations of the foundation. In one embodiment the step of aligning the fixture with the edges at both the second and third locations may include adjusting the fixture so that the laser beam strikes edges at both the second and third locations of the foundation.

In another embodiment a method for aligning a fixture for holding an alignment telescope with an antenna array foundation includes aligning concentrically a hole in the alignment telescope fixture with an antenna array mounting hole in a foundation having an edge mounting the fixture to the foundation by inserting a bolt through the aligned holes in the fixture and foundation projecting a laser beam outwards from the fixture towards a first reference location on the edge of the antenna array foundation and aligning the fixture with the edge using the laser beam. The aligning step in one embodiment preferably includes adjusting the fixture in relation to the foundation so that the laser beam strikes the edge at the first reference location. The method may further include the steps of projecting the laser beam towards a second reference location on the edge of the antenna array foundation and aligning the fixture with the edge at both the first and second reference locations on the foundation. In one embodiment the step of aligning the fixture with both the first and second reference locations preferably includes adjusting the fixture so that the laser beam strikes the edge at both the first and second reference locations.

In another embodiment a method is provided for aligning a fixture for holding an alignment telescope with an antenna array foundation having a substantially planar face and a central opening defining a circumferential edge surface. The method includes mounting the fixture for holding an alignment telescope on the foundation proximate to the edge surface at a first location projecting a laser beam outwards from the fixture towards a second location on the circumferential edge surface spaced apart from the first location and aligning the fixture with the foundation so that the laser beam strikes the edge surface at the second location. The method in one embodiment preferably may further include the step of producing an observable laser spot on the edge surface at the second location. In one embodiment the laser beam preferably is projected in a plane substantially parallel to the face of the foundation. The circumferential edge surface preferably lies perpendicular to the face of the foundation.

In still a further embodiment a method for aligning a fixture for holding an alignment telescope with an antenna array foundation includes accessing the antenna array foundation having a substantially planar face with a central opening defining an edge and a plurality of mounting holes located proximate to the edge and distributed around the central opening in a bolting pattern positioning the fixture for holding an alignment telescope in the central opening proximate to the edge of the foundation projecting a laser beam outwards from the fixture sweeping the laser beam across the edge of the foundation in an arcuate pattern and striking the edge with the laser beam in at least two spaced apart edge reference locations to align the fixture with the foundation. Preferably in one embodiment each of the two edge reference locations is located adjacent to a mounting hole. The laser beam is projected in a plane substantially parallel to the face of the foundation in a preferred embodiment. The sweeping step may include rotating the laser beam with respect to the fixture. In one embodiment the laser beam is generated by a laser level rotatably attached to the fixture.

In the description of embodiments of the invention disclosed herein any reference to direction or orientation is merely intended for convenience of description and is not intended in any way to limit the scope of the present invention. Moreover the features and benefits of the invention are illustrated by reference to preferred embodiments. Accordingly the invention expressly should not be limited to such preferred embodiments illustrating some possible but non limiting combination of features that may be provided alone or in other combinations of features the scope of the invention being defined by the claims appended hereto.

Referring to an alignment telescope fixture includes a mounting portion for removably attaching the fixture to an antenna array foundation and a support portion for holding various alignment and measurement instruments devices described herein. Mounting portion includes a mounting adaptor plate having a pair of spaced apart slots and a clamping member having holes . Mounting plate preferably is attached directly to the antenna array foundation see for supporting fixture . In a preferred embodiment mounting plate may be secured to foundation by inserting mounting screws not shown through at least two of the mounting holes which preferably are sized and arranged to match the bolting pattern of at least two of the foundation mounting holes see . In other embodiments contemplated mounting plate may be secured to foundation by means of a clamp or similar apparatus. Mounting plate further includes a pair of spaced apart slots which are preferably oriented at an angle to the Y axis to allow for angular adjustment of fixture with respect to the X axis as further described herein.

With continued reference to support portion of fixture includes mounting base assembly . In one embodiment mounting base assembly may be a T shaped plate having a horizontal base plate and a vertical base plate attached generally perpendicular to plate as shown. Plate is movably and rotationally coupled to mounting plate via a pivot pin and two screws passing through slots in mounting plate and holes in clamping member . An intermediate adjustment plate is disposed between mounting base assembly and an alignment telescope mounting assembly . Adjustment plate is movably and rotationally coupled to mounting base assembly via a pivot pin and two screws which pass through slots in plate and are received in threaded holes not shown on the underside of adjustment plate . This allows adjustment plate to be angularly rotated about the Y axis with respect to mounting base assembly . Adjustment plate includes four spaced apart mounting clips preferably located near the corners of the adjustment plate. Mounting clips include vertical slots that receive screws to couple the clips to adjustment plate as shown. Clips further include pins that are received in slots in the sides of alignment telescope mounting assembly for adjustably coupling the assembly to adjustment plate . Slots and pins allow telescope mounting assembly to be moved axially along the Z axis with respect to adjustment plate . A jackscrew may be provided at either end of adjustment plate to impart vertical raising lowering motions to telescope mounting assembly with respect to adjustment plate . This allows telescope mounting assembly to be tilted or positioned at varying angles to the top surface of adjustment plate about the X axis by loosening screws adjusting the relative positions of plates to each other and retightening the screws.

With continued reference to telescope mounting assembly includes a telescope mounting holder which in one embodiment may be formed by a pair of space apart plates having apertures therein to receive the telescope. A commercially available bulls eye level may be provided to allow a rough level to be established for fixture when mounted to foundation . A laser level assembly is attached to telescope mounting assembly in one embodiment as shown. Laser level assembly includes four spaced apart slots that receive adjustment screws to movably and axially couple the laser level assembly to telescope mounting assembly for movement along the Z axis.

Laser level assembly further includes an indicia or mark that is used in conjunction with a graduated ruler that may be mounted to telescope mounting assembly . In some embodiments ruler preferably has metric or English measurement indicia. In a preferred embodiment ruler contains indicia corresponding to a range of possible foundation thicknesses T for foundation . Mark and ruler may be used to adjust and set the laser level assembly at a plurality of axial positions along the Z axis with respect to telescope mounting assembly that correspond to the actual thickness T of the foundation . As further explained herein this provides a rough alignment of fixture and laser level with foundation edge .

A commercially available laser level is attached to laser level assembly . In one embodiment laser level may be attached to a vertical plate formed on laser level assembly . Laser level is preferably rotationally mounted to plate via a rotary base . This allows the laser beam see which exits the laser level at lens to be swept across a vertical plane projected in the X Y plane that essentially coincides with the orientation of foundation that also extends in the X Y plane in one possible embodiment. Accordingly laser beam may arcuately sweep in a plane parallel to the face or plane of the foundation .

Referring to an optical alignment telescope is diagrammatically pictured which is received in fixture . The alignment telescope may be any suitable commercially available model typically used for measuring mounting foundations. The end of alignment telescope preferably is fitted with a commercially available optical square having a line of sight oriented substantially parallel to planar face of the foundation such that the square receives and reflects a visual image at a 90 degree angle as shown through eyepiece . This allows measurements to be taken at a 90 degree angle to telescope tube by a user such as a technician positioned and looking through eyepiece . Since the telescope tube is inserted into apertures of telescope mounting assembly in the direction of the Z axis the optical square provides the technician with line of sight parallel to the X Y plane of fixture see .

With continued reference to foundation has a substantially flat or planar face allowing for fabrication deviations and tolerances that defines the plane of foundation. Foundation may further define a central opening which in some embodiment may be circular rectangular octagonal or other regular polygon in shape. Central opening in turn defines an inside foundation edge in foundation that in some embodiments forms a continuous circumferential or perimeter edge surface . Edge surface is disposed substantially perpendicular to the face or the plane of foundation. A plurality of mounting holes are provided in a spaced apart and preferably uniform dispersed pattern around central opening to form a bolting pattern for the antenna array. The mounting holes are configured to receive mounting bolts used to mount the antenna array to foundation . A plurality of foundation edge reference locations are defined on portions of edge surface which will be used to align or buck in the fixture to foundation according to the method described herein. In a preferred embodiment edge reference locations may be defined on edge adjacent to each mounting hole .

A preferred method for aligning or bucking in an optical alignment telescope fixture with an antenna array foundation will now be described with reference to . depicts an out of plane view of an antenna array foundation perpendicular to the plane of the foundation with laser level . For convenience in describing the preferred method the plane of foundation will be assumed to fall or extend in the X Y plane as shown in . depicts a diagrammatic in plane view of a cross sectional portion of the foundation with alignment telescope mounted in fixture positioned on foundation with representing the side of foundation inside the equipment room and representing the side of foundation outside the equipment room in one embodiment. depicts alignment telescope . is a flowchart showing steps of the a preferred embodiment for aligning a fixture for holding an alignment telescope with an antenna array foundation.

Referring initially now to and a technician accesses the antenna array foundation near a bottom location of foundation edge . Preferably bottom location is situated near a regular deck or walkway to allow the technician to access location without the use of a scaffold as required in conventional methods of both aligning alignment telescope fixtures and recording surface flatness measurements described in the Background. Fixture is next positioned in central opening of foundation adjacent to bottom location of edge . Preferably alignment telescope see is not yet secured into fixture to avoid damaging the telescope. The technician next attaches fixture to edge proximate the bottom location by any suitable means. In a preferred embodiment fixture may be temporarily bolted to foundation by inserting bolts through mounting holes in the fixture and two of the mounting holes from the inside side of the foundation as shown in and attaching nuts not shown to the opposite ends of the bolts on the outside side of the foundation. In other embodiments contemplated fixture may be removably clamped onto edge .

Referring to and a rough level may be obtained for fixture and laser level using bulls eye level . Leveling adjustments may be made in the Z Y plane by loosening screws passing through slots in mounting clips vertically raising lower either end of telescope mounting assembly using jackscrews and retightening screws . Leveling adjustments may be made in the X Y plane by loosening screws passing through slots in mounting plate rotating mounting base assembly about the Z axis and retightening screws .

Referring to and a technician next measures the thickness T of foundation along edge . Screws are loosened in laser level assembly and the assembly is slid in the direction of the Z axis until mark on assembly becomes aligned with an indicia on ruler corresponding to the actual measured thickness T. This will position laser level in central opening of foundation such that the laser beam projected from laser level in the X Y plane will strike or come close to striking surface on edge of foundation. This foregoing step therefore provides at least rough alignment step for bucking in laser level with foundation .

Referring to and the technician next performs a final and fine tuning alignment step to precisely buck in i.e. align the laser level and concomitantly fixture with foundation . Laser level is turned on to project laser beam outwards from the laser level through lens in a general direction preferably towards foundation edge and circumferential edge surface and more preferably towards the edge and edge surface at a location generally opposite to the mounting location of fixture . Accordingly laser beam is projected in a direction and plane that is substantially parallel to the face or plane of foundation i.e. in the X Y plane . The laser level is then rotated about the Z axis to sweep laser beam across central opening and edge in an arcuate pattern in the X Y plane. As laser beam sweeps generally across foundation edge the technician observes edge surface at a plurality of spaced apart circumferential edge reference locations along the edge for the presence of a visible laser spot . If a laser spot is observed the technician has visually confirmed that laser beam is striking surface of edge at the observed edge reference location and that fixture is properly aligned with this observed reference location. Preferably the technician observes and confirms that laser beam strikes surface in at least two different spaced apart edge reference locations and more preferably in at least three different edge reference locations. In a preferred embodiment the edge reference locations are adjacent to antenna array mounting holes where optical measurements will subsequently be taken to determine the flatness of foundation for fabricating shims. Preferably in some embodiments the technician confirms that a laser spot is observed at an edge reference location adjacent to a majority of mounting holes and more preferably adjacent to each mounting hole . This will confirm that laser level and concomitantly fixture are properly bucked in or aligned with foundation . Measurements may then be initiated to determine the flatness of the foundation face at each mounting hole .

With continuing reference to and if the technician finds that the laser beam is not striking each selected edge reference location on edge fixture may then be further adjusted to buck in or align the fixture with foundation . In one possible misalignment scenario the arcuate pattern produced by laser beam may appear to fall out of the X Y plane at some locations indicating the laser level and concomitantly fixture is misaligned with the plane of foundation . Screws may be loosened in mounting base assembly to allow the telescope mounting assembly to be rotated about the Y axis until the projected plane of the laser beam aligns with the face or plane of foundation at each selected edge reference location . Proper alignment may be confirmed by observing that a laser spot is produced on edge surface at each selected edge reference location . Screws may then be retightened to lock in the alignment. If the laser level is still misaligned additional alignment adjustments of fixture with respect to other planes and or axes may be necessary to achieve a proper alignment or buck in of fixture . In other possible misalignment scenarios therefore a combination of alignment adjustments may be required to precisely buck in laser level and properly align fixture with foundation .

Advantageously it will be appreciated that the foregoing laser assisted method of aligning fixture with foundation may be performed by a single technician working off a regular access deck or walkway in lieu of a minimum of two technicians using the conventional optical alignment method described in the Background. In addition the fixture alignment method disclosed herein may beneficially be completed in a matter of minutes in lieu of an hour or more required with the conventional optical alignment technique.

After fixture is properly aligned with foundation alignment telescope may be mounted in the fixture as shown in to begin foundation flatness measurements at each antenna array mounting hole so that properly sized shims may be fabricated for mounting the antenna array to the foundation.

The steps of the preferred method for aligning a fixture for holding an alignment with an antenna array foundation are summarized in with a more detailed description of the preferred method being already provided herein. Referring to and the alignment method begins with a technician mounting the telescope fixture on an edge of antenna array foundation in step . Preferably in step the technician next uses bulls eye level to obtain a rough level for fixture . However it will be appreciated that the rough level step may optionally be omitted. Fine tuning and a final alignment of fixture with foundation is then performed using laser level . In next step laser beam is projected from laser level towards a first edge reference location . In next step the technician observes whether laser beam is striking the first edge reference location. If no the fixture is adjusted in step in a manner previously described herein until the laser beam strikes the first edge reference location yes . The fixture is now aligned with first edge reference location as indicated in step . In next step in the preferred method laser level is rotated preferably with laser beam remaining on and the laser beam is projected towards a second edge reference location as indicated in step . Preferably second edge reference location is spaced apart from the first edge reference location. In next step the technician again observes whether laser beam is striking the second edge reference location . If no the fixture is adjusted in step in a manner previously described herein until the laser beam strikes the second edge reference location yes . The fixture is now aligned with second edge reference location as indicated in step . Provided that the first and second edge reference locations are adequately spaced apart in distance alignment of the fixture with these two edge reference locations may adequately be indicative that the fixture is now aligned with the entire antenna array foundation as indicated in step . If not and preferably fixture is aligned with at least three spaced apart edge reference locations in the preferred method steps through may be repeated as indicated by return process arrow in at least one additional time to align the fixture with the foundation. Foundation flatness measurements may then be commenced for preparing properly sized shims for mounting the antenna array to the foundation in the manner already described herein using alignment telescope .

Although embodiments of a method for aligning fixtures for holding alignment telescopes with antenna array foundations are disclosed herein the embodiments are applicable for use with other types and or configurations of foundations where accurate alignment of alignment telescope fixtures are desired. Accordingly the invention is not limited in applicability to antenna array foundations alone.

While the foregoing description and drawings represent the preferred embodiments of the present invention it will be understood that various additions modifications and substitutions may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined in the accompanying claims. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be used with many variations and modifications of the method which are particularly adapted to specific environments and operative requirements without departing from the principles of the present invention. The presently disclosed embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive the scope of the invention being defined by the appended claims and not limited to the foregoing description or embodiments.

