---

title: Method, medium, and system for simplifying user management of products during online shopping
abstract: In accordance with a method for simplifying user management of products during online shopping, an informal storage space for a merchant's web site may be displayed when web pages from the merchant's web site are displayed. The informal storage space may be separate from a shopping cart for the merchant's web site. The informal storage space may include visual identifiers for products that are currently added to the informal storage space. Users may be permitted to compare the products that are currently added to the informal storage space. Users may also be permitted to make modifications to the informal storage space. State information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect the modifications made to the informal storage space.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08689124&OS=08689124&RS=08689124
owner: A9.Com, Inc.
number: 08689124
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070829
---
The present disclosure relates generally to computers and computer related technologies. More specifically the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for simplifying user management of products during online shopping.

Many retailers have set up Internet web sites where consumers can shop for various products that are available for sale purchase the desired products and have the products delivered to them. The term online shopping refers to the process of purchasing products over the Internet. The term online merchant may refer to a merchant that has set up an Internet web site through which products may be ordered.

Consumers may purchase a wide variety of products via online shopping. Some examples of products that may be purchased include tangible goods such as books CDs DVDs tools clothes footwear health beauty items hardware groceries or the like. Other examples of products that may be purchased via online shopping include digital goods such as electronic books music movies videos application software or the like.

An online merchant s web site may provide a wide variety of information about the products that are offered for sale. Such information may include images of the products product descriptions price availability customer reviews etc.

An online merchant may offer products for sale that are manufactured by the merchant itself. Alternatively or in addition an online merchant may offer products for sale that are manufactured by or obtained from one or more third party vendors.

A consumer may use a web browser on his her computer to order products from an online merchant s web site. When products are ordered the consumer may provide some type of payment information e.g. a credit card number . The payment information may be encrypted as it is transferred from the consumer s computer to the merchant s server or to a third party payment server . Once the payment information has been received and verified the products may be shipped to the consumer s address downloaded to the consumer s computer or made available for in store pickup as appropriate.

Online shopping is popular for a variety of reasons including its speed and ease of use. In view of the popularity of online shopping benefits may be realized from improvements that are related to improving a consumer s online shopping experience.

A method for simplifying user management of products during online shopping is disclosed. In accordance with the method an informal storage space for a merchant s web site may be displayed when web pages from the merchant s web site are displayed. The informal storage space may be separate from a shopping cart for the merchant s web site. The informal storage space may include visual identifiers for products that are currently added to the informal storage space. Users may be permitted to compare the products that are currently added to the informal storage space. Users may also be permitted to make modifications to the informal storage space. State information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect the modifications made to the informal storage space.

Permitting users to make modifications to the informal storage space may comprise permitting users to add additional products to the informal storage space. A user may add a product to the informal storage space by dragging and dropping a visual identifier for the product to the informal storage space or by dragging and throwing the visual identifier for the product to the informal storage space.

Permitting users to make modifications to the informal storage space may comprise permitting users to remove one or more of the products from the informal storage space. A user may remove a product from the informal storage space by dragging and dropping a visual identifier for the product outside of the informal storage space or by dragging and throwing the visual identifier for the product outside of the informal storage space.

Other information in addition to the visual identifiers may be displayed about the products that are currently added to the informal storage space. The other information for a particular product may be displayed in a pop over window in response to a user hovering over a visual identifier for the product in the informal storage space.

Permitting users to make modifications to the informal storage space may comprise permitting users to transfer one or more of the products from the informal storage space to a separate space within the merchant s web site.

The informal storage space may comprise a graphical representation of a product shelf. The visual identifiers for the currently added products may be positioned on the graphical representation of the product shelf. The visual identifiers may be product images.

A computer system that is configured to simplify user management of products during online shopping is also disclosed. The computer system may comprise a processor. The computer system may also comprise memory in electronic communication with the processor. The computer system may also comprise instructions stored in the memory. The instructions may be executable to display an informal storage space for a merchant s web site when web pages from the merchant s web site are displayed. The informal storage space may comprise visual identifiers for products that are currently added to the informal storage space. The instructions may also be executable to permit users to compare the products that are currently added to the informal storage space. The instructions may also be executable to permit users to make modifications to the informal storage space. The instructions may also be executable to update state information for the informal storage space to reflect the modifications made to the informal storage space.

A computer readable medium comprising executable instructions is also disclosed. The computer readable medium may comprise executable instructions for displaying an informal storage space for a merchant s web site when web pages from the merchant s web site are displayed. The informal storage space may comprise visual identifiers for products that are currently added to the informal storage space. The computer readable medium may also comprise executable instructions for permitting users to compare the products that are currently added to the informal storage space. The computer readable medium may also comprise executable instructions for permitting users to make modifications to the informal storage space. The computer readable medium may also comprise executable instructions for updating state information for the informal storage space to reflect the modifications made to the informal storage space.

A computer system that is configured to simplify user management of products during online shopping is also disclosed. The computer system may comprise means for displaying an informal storage space for a merchant s web site when web pages from the merchant s web site are displayed. The informal storage space may comprise visual identifiers for products that are currently added to the informal storage space. The computer system may also comprise means for permitting users to compare the products that are currently added to the informal storage space. The computer system may also comprise means for permitting users to make modifications to the informal storage space. The computer system may also comprise means for updating state information for the informal storage space to reflect the modifications made to the informal storage space.

A method for simplifying user management of products during online shopping is also disclosed. In accordance with the method an informal storage space for a merchant s web site may be displayed when web pages from the merchant s web site are displayed. The informal storage space may be separate from a shopping cart for the merchant s web site. The informal storage space may comprise images of products that are currently added to the informal storage space. Other information in addition to the images may be displayed about the products that are currently added to the informal storage space thereby permitting users to compare the products that are currently added to the informal storage space. Users may be permitted to add additional products to the informal storage space. Users may be permitted to remove one or more of the products from the informal storage space. Users may be permitted to transfer one or more of the products from the informal storage space to a separate space within the merchant s web site. State information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect modifications made to the informal storage space.

Several exemplary embodiments are now described with reference to the Figures. This detailed description of several exemplary embodiments as illustrated in the Figures is not intended to limit the scope of the claims.

The word exemplary is used exclusively herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

As used herein the terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments certain embodiments one embodiment another embodiment and the like mean one or more but not necessarily all embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term determining and grammatical variants thereof is used in an extremely broad sense. The term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on. 

The client is shown with several components that may be used to implement an informal storage space for the merchant s web site . The informal storage space may be thought of as a scratch space that may be used for temporarily storing information about products that the user is considering purchasing but which the user has not yet decided to purchase. The informal storage space may permit users to easily compare different products while maintaining shopping context.

The informal storage space may be implemented so that it is separate from other spaces within the merchant s web site such as a shopping cart a wish list etc. The informal storage space may be displayed when web pages from the merchant s web site are displayed but it may be configured so that it does not otherwise interfere with the user s navigation of the merchant s web site . For example a user may navigate to a web page corresponding to product A add product A to the informal storage space and then navigate to a different web page corresponding to product B. The informal storage space may be displayed while the user is viewing the web page for product B and the informal storage space may include a visual identifier of product A e.g. a reduced size image of product A to indicate that product A has been added to the informal storage space. Additional details about various aspects of the informal storage space will be described below.

In the components that may be used to implement the informal storage space include state information corresponding to the informal storage space a state information manager a display component and a user input component . Collectively these components may be referred to herein as an informal storage space ISS module .

The state information may include the products that are currently added to the informal storage space as well as certain information about these products. Any suitable data structure s may be used to store this information such as a list a table an array etc. The state information manager may update the state information whenever modifications are made to the informal storage space e.g. when a product is added to or removed from the informal storage space .

State information is also shown on the server . Storing at least some state information on the server may make it possible for a user to use the same informal storage space when on different clients . This may also make it possible for multiple users to share the same informal storage space.

In state information is stored on the client and state information is also stored on the server . Alternatively state information may be stored on the client but not on the server . As another alternative state information may be stored on the server but not on the client .

The display component may be configured to display the informal storage space when web pages from the merchant s web site are displayed. As mentioned above the informal storage space may include visual identifiers e.g. images for products that are currently added to the informal storage space so that the user may be able to see what products are currently added to the informal storage space. Other information about the products that are currently added to the informal storage space may also be displayed.

The user input component may permit users to make modifications to the informal storage space. For example the user input component may permit users to add products to the informal storage space remove products from the informal storage space transfer products to different spaces within the merchant s web site e.g. a shopping cart a wish list etc. and so forth.

The ISS module and the components included therein may be downloaded from the server to the client . This may occur for example in connection with the downloading of web pages for the merchant s web site from the server to the client for display on the web browser . In one implementation the ISS module may be implemented as a script file that is written in a scripting language such as JavaScript.

In the state information state information manager display component and user input component are illustrated as being part of the same module . Alternatively these components may be distributed across multiple modules code segments routines programs etc. These components may also be distributed across multiple storage media in some implementations.

The web page includes information about a product that is being offered for sale by the Internet merchant. The product is a book which is titled Book A. shows the web page as including a graphical representation of Book A which may be an image of Book A.

A user who is viewing the web page may be considering purchasing Book A. However the user may not be completely certain that he she wants to purchase Book A. The user may want to look at other books before making a final decision about whether or not to purchase Book A. Therefore the user may decide to add Book A to the informal storage space .

To add Book A to the informal storage space the user may select the image of Book A. This may be done by using a pointing device such as a mouse. For example the user may position a mouse cursor over the image of Book A and then click and hold down a mouse button. The user may then drag and drop a reduced size version of the image over to the product shelf thereby adding Book A to the informal storage space . shows the reduced size version of the image as it is being dragged over to the product shelf .

Instead of dragging the visual identifier for the product all the way to the product shelf and then dropping it on the product shelf the user may be permitted to drag the visual identifier and then throw it onto the product shelf . For example if the user drags a visual identifier for a product a certain distance from its origination e.g. a certain number of pixels then it may be inferred that the user intends to take the visual identifier all the way to the product shelf . In response the corresponding product may be added to the product shelf and the visual identifier for the product may be displayed on the product shelf without the user having to drag the visual identifier all the way to the product shelf . This sequence of events may appear as though the user is throwing the visual identifier onto the product shelf . This feature may be advantageous when the user is viewing a long list of results. It may be awkward for the user to drag a visual identifier for a product that is located near the bottom of the list all the way to the product shelf . In this situation being able to drag and throw the visual identifier onto the product shelf may be simpler for the user.

The reduced size image may be obtained by reducing the image of the product that is displayed on the web page . This function may be performed by the web browser itself in response to a command from the ISS module . If an image is not displayed on the web page then the image or other type of visual identifier may be retrieved from the merchant s server .

When the user selects the image the informal storage space may be highlighted or otherwise accentuated to make it easier for the user to locate the informal storage space within the web page . In a rectangular highlight box is shown surrounding the product shelf . This highlight box may be a bright noticeable color such as yellow gold red etc.

A reduced size image of Book A is displayed on top of the product shelf indicating that Book A is currently added to the informal storage space . In addition a reduced size image of another product Book B is also displayed on top of the product shelf . This indicates that Book B has also been added to the informal storage space .

As mentioned the web page includes information about Book C. The information that is provided for Book C includes the title author average customer review price etc. A pop over window is displayed on top of the web page proximate the reduced size image of Book A. The pop over window includes information about Book A. The information that is provided for Book A includes the title author average customer review price etc. Thus the information about Book A that is provided in the pop over window is similar to the information about Book C that is provided on the web page . Accordingly the user may compare information about Book A and Book C without having to navigate back and forth between the web page corresponding to Book A and the web page corresponding to Book C.

The user may cause the pop over window to appear by hovering over the reduced size image of Book A on the product shelf with a mouse cursor. The informal storage space may be configured so that when the user moves his her mouse cursor off of the reduced size image of Book A the pop over window disappears. Functionality may be provided that would permit the user to pin down the pop over window so that it continues to be displayed even after the user moves his her mouse cursor off of the reduced size image of Book A. If this functionality were provided the pop over window corresponding to Book A may be displayed together with a similar pop over window corresponding to Book B. This may allow the user to simultaneously view information about Book A Book B and Book C.

The user may be permitted to tear off pop over windows from the product shelf and move them around resize them etc. For example the user may be permitted to tear off the pop over window corresponding to Book A shrink it so that it is smaller and move it elsewhere on the web page . The user may then do the same thing with a pop over window for Book B so that information about Book A Book B and Book C is visible at the same time.

The pop over window includes a button labeled Add to Cart and another button labeled Add to Wish List. By clicking on the button labeled Add to Cart the user may add Book A to the user s shopping cart. By clicking on the button labeled Add to Wish List the user may add Book A to a wish list.

To remove a product from the informal storage space the user may simply drag the reduced size image of the product off of the product shelf and outside of the informal storage space . For example to remove Book A from the informal storage space the user may drag and drop or drag and throw as discussed above the reduced size image of Book A to any region of the web page that is outside of the informal storage space such as the region that is illustrated by dotted lines in . A visual or audible effect may be provided to confirm to the user that the product has been removed from the informal storage space .

Users may be permitted to remove products from the informal storage space in other ways such as by selecting an option from a suitable user interface element e.g. a pop over window toolkit etc. . A user interface element with the option to remove the product from the informal storage space may be displayed in response to the user hovering over the reduced size image in the informal storage space with a mouse cursor.

Functionality may be provided which permits the user to take a single action that results in something happening to all of the products that are currently added to the informal storage space . For example the user may take a single action that results in all of the products from the informal storage space being added to his her shopping cart. As another example the user may take a single action that results in all of the products being removed from the informal storage space . The action taken by the user may be clicking on a user interface element selecting an option in a pop over window or on a toolkit etc.

The reduced size images that are displayed in the informal storage space may permit the user to quickly and easily access product detail pages i.e. web pages that provide detailed information about the products . For example by clicking on the reduced size image of Book A the product detail page for Book A may be displayed.

The options window includes an option to Compare Shelf Items. By selecting this option the user may be taken to a different web page that shows a comparison of all of the products that are currently in the informal storage space . The options window also includes an option to Add All Items To Cart. By selecting this option all of the products that are currently in the informal storage space may be added to the user s shopping cart. Of course additional and or different options may be included in the options window .

As discussed above the user may add one of the books in the list to the informal storage space by dragging and dropping an image of the book to the informal storage space . However in this situation the user has scrolled down partway through the list so that the top of the web page is no longer visible. As a result the informal storage space is not visible. It may be awkward for the user to try to drag and drop a product image to the informal storage space from this point in the list.

One possible way to address this issue is to allow the user to drag and throw items to the informal storage space as discussed above. Another alternative is illustrated in . For each book in the list that is shown in there is a button labeled Add to Shelf. shows this type of button for Book M this type of button for Book N and this type of button for Book O. By clicking on the button corresponding to a particular book the user may add the book to the informal storage space .

When a web page is displayed it may be determined whether one or more Add to Shelf buttons should be placed on the web page and if so what elements on the web page should have the buttons placed next to them. The ISS module on the client may make these determinations. If products that can be added to the informal storage space are detected on the web page then the Add to Shelf buttons may be added to the web page . Alternatively the Add to Shelf buttons may already exist on the web page when it is received by the client .

In accordance with the method a informal storage space may be displayed when web pages from an Internet merchant s web site are displayed. The informal storage space may include visual identifiers for products that are currently added to the informal storage space . In the informal storage space that is shown in the visual identifiers are product images. However other types of visual identifiers may be used. For example where an image of a product is not available a text box may be used.

In addition to visual identifiers other information about the products that are currently added to the informal storage space may be displayed . Displaying information about the products in the informal storage space may permit users to easily compare different products as discussed above. Under some circumstances the product information may be displayed in response to some type of user action. For example as discussed above product information may be displayed in a pop over window in response to the user hovering over a product s visual identifier in the informal storage space with a mouse cursor.

Users may be permitted to make modifications to the informal storage space . For example users may be permitted to add additional products to the informal storage space . Some examples of ways that users may add products to the informal storage space were discussed above. These examples included dragging and dropping or dragging and throwing a visual identifier for a product to the informal storage space clicking on a user interface element e.g. a button corresponding to a particular product selecting an option from a pop over window or toolkit etc.

As another example of modifications that may be made to the informal storage space users may be permitted to remove products from the informal storage space . Some examples of ways that users may remove products from the informal storage space were discussed above. These examples included dragging and dropping or dragging and throwing a visual identifier for a product from the informal storage space to a region that is outside of the informal storage space selecting an option from a pop over window or toolkit etc.

As another example of modifications that may be made to the informal storage space users may be permitted to transfer products from the informal storage space to one or more separate spaces within the merchant s web site such as a shopping cart a wish list etc. Some examples of ways that users may transfer products from the informal storage space to separate spaces were discussed above. These examples included clicking on a user interface element e.g. a button selecting an option from a pop over window or toolkit etc.

When modifications are made to the informal storage space the state information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect the modifications that have been made. Locally stored state information may be updated . Additionally any state information that is stored on a merchant s server may also be updated . This may involve sending one or more messages to the server . As discussed above the state information may include a list of products that are currently added to the informal storage space . Thus when a product is added to the informal storage space a new entry in the list may be created for the newly added product. Conversely when a product is removed from the informal storage space the corresponding entry in the list may be removed.

The method may be performed in response to a user selecting a visual identifier such as an image on a web page . When a user s selection of a visual identifier on a web page is detected a determination may be made about whether the visual identifier corresponds to a product that is being offered for sale by the web site . There are many ways that this determination may be made . As an example a product identifier may be embedded or otherwise associated with a visual identifier that corresponds to a product. As another example the HTML code for the web page may include a flag which indicates whether the visual identifier corresponds to a product.

If it is determined that the visual identifier does not correspond to a product then the method may end. If however it is determined that the visual identifier corresponds to a product then a determination may be made about whether the product has already been added to the informal storage space . If it is determined that the product has already been added to the informal storage space then the user may be notified that the product has already been added e.g. by displaying an error message and the method may end.

If however it is determined that that the product has not already been added then a determination may be made about whether information about the product has previously been retrieved from the merchant e.g. via a server that is maintained by the merchant . The product information may have been retrieved if for example the product had previously been added to and then subsequently removed from the informal storage space .

If it is determined that information about the product has not previously been retrieved then product information may be retrieved from the merchant. As mentioned the product information may be retrieved from a server that is maintained by the merchant. Some Internet merchants make product information available via application programming interfaces APIs . In this situation the product information may be retrieved via one or more APIs. For example the product information may be retrieved through the use of XMLHttpRequest XHR calls.

Under some circumstances the product information may be retrieved as soon as the user s selection of a visual identifier on a web page is detected . Alternatively the product information may be retrieved at a later time e.g. after the reduced size visual identifier has been dragged and dropped or dragged and thrown to the informal storage space .

The informal storage space may be highlighted or otherwise accentuated to make it easier for the user to locate the informal storage space within the web page . This may be done as soon as the user s selection of the visual identifier is detected . The user may then be permitted to drag and drop or drag and throw a reduced size visual identifier e.g. a reduced size image of the product to the informal storage space thereby adding the product to the informal storage space .

In response the state information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect the fact that the product has been added. Locally stored state information may be updated . Additionally any state information that is stored on a merchant s server may also be updated . This may involve sending one or more messages to the server . As discussed above the state information may include a list of products that are currently added to the informal storage space . Thus updating the state information may involve creating a new entry in the list for the newly added product.

The method includes displaying a user interface element that when selected initiates addition of a product to an informal storage space . Examples of these types of user interface elements include a button an option in a pop over window or toolkit etc. This type of user interface element may be continuously displayed within the contents of a web page like the buttons shown in or it may be displayed in response to some type of user action such as hovering over a visual identifier for a product with a mouse cursor.

At some point a user s selection of the user interface element may be detected . In response the state information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect the fact that the product has been added to the informal storage space . Locally stored state information may be updated . Additionally any state information that is stored on a merchant s server may also be updated . This may involve sending one or more messages to the server . As discussed above the state information may include a list of products that are currently added to the informal storage space . Thus updating the state information may involve creating a new entry in the list for the newly added product. In addition to updating the state information a visual identifier for the product e.g. a reduced size image of the product may be displayed within the informal storage space .

In accordance with the method a user may at some point hover over a product s visual identifier within an informal storage space with a mouse cursor. When this is detected a pop over window may be displayed in response. This pop over window may be displayed proximate the visual identifier . Information about the product may be displayed in the pop over window . The product information that is displayed may be similar to the information that is already displayed on the web page for a different product. Thus the user may simultaneously view and compare information about different products without having to navigate back and forth between different web pages.

The user may be permitted to pin down the pop over window so that it continues to be displayed even after the user moves his her mouse cursor off of the visual identifier of the product so that the user can for example move his her mouse cursor to a different product s visual identifier in order to compare the two products . The user may also be permitted to tear off the pop over window i.e. separate the pop over window from the informal storage space so that it can be moved around resized etc.

The method includes displaying a user interface element that when selected initiates transfer of a product to a separate space within the merchant s web site . Examples of these types of user interface elements include a button an option in a pop over window or toolkit etc. This type of user interface element may be continuously displayed within the contents of a web page or it may be displayed in response to some type of user action such as hovering over a product s visual identifier with a mouse cursor.

At some point a user s selection of the user interface element may be detected . In response the merchant may be notified that the product is being transferred to another space within the merchant s web site . For example a message may be sent to a server that is maintained by the merchant. The merchant may then effect the transfer of the product to the desired space within the web site .

The state information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect the fact that the product has been transferred from the informal storage space . Locally stored state information may be updated . Additionally any state information that is stored on a merchant s server may also be updated . This may involve sending one or more messages to the server . As discussed above the state information may include a list of products that are currently added to the informal storage space . Thus updating the state information may involve removing an entry in the list for the product that has been transferred. In addition to updating the state information the visual identifier e.g. image for the product may be removed from the informal storage space .

At some point a user s selection of a visual identifier for the product e.g. a reduced size product image within the informal storage space may be detected . The user may be permitted to drag and drop or drag and throw the visual identifier to any region of the web page that is outside of the informal storage space such as the region that is illustrated by dotted lines in .

The state information for the informal storage space may be updated to reflect the fact that the product has been removed from the informal storage space . Locally stored state information may be updated . Additionally any state information that is stored on a merchant s server may also be updated . This may involve sending one or more messages to the server . As discussed above the state information may include a list of products that are currently added to the informal storage space . Thus updating the state information may involve removing an entry in the list for the product that has been transferred.

In addition to updating the state information the visual identifier for the product may be removed from the informal storage space so that it is no longer displayed there. In addition a visual or audible effect may be provided to confirm to the user that the product has been removed from the informal storage space . An example of a visual effect that may be used is an animated clip which depicts the visual identifier for the product disappearing.

The computer system is shown with a processor and memory . The processor may control the operation of the computer system and may be embodied as a microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP or other device known in the art. The processor typically performs logical and arithmetic operations based on program instructions stored within the memory . The instructions in the memory may be executable to implement the methods described herein.

The computer system may also include one or more communication interfaces and or network interfaces for communicating with other electronic devices. The communication interface s and the network interface s may be based on wired communication technology wireless communication technology or both.

The computer system may also include one or more input devices and one or more output devices . The input devices and output devices may facilitate user input. Other components may also be provided as part of the computer system .

Information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals and the like that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as limiting the scope of the claims.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array signal FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in any form of storage medium that is known in the art. Some examples of storage media that may be used include RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM and so forth. A software module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across multiple storage media. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is required for proper operation of the embodiment that is being described the order and or use of specific steps and or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

While specific embodiments have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the embodiments described above without departing from the scope of the claims.

