---

title: Accessing content via a geographic map
abstract: Detailed herein is a technology which, among other things, allows multimedia content associated with a particular geographic area to be viewed and accessed through an appropriate geographic map. In one approach to this technology, multimedia content is received. This content has an associated geographic tag. A geographic map is displayed, and can be used to gain access to the multimedia content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07840344&OS=07840344&RS=07840344
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07840344
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070212
---
With the continued growth of the Internet and the increasing permeation of content generating devices in society the sheer amount of multimedia content available is staggering. Mobile telephones for example allow easy generation of digital photographs or videos in almost any environment desktop computers and readily available software allow almost anyone to create movies and post them online. Meanwhile more traditional media outlets such as newspapers radio stations and television stations are making their content increasingly available through digital distribution channels as well.

Search engines and social networking sites provide some means to find this content as well as motivating additional content creation. However while the means and opportunity for making content has been increasingly available few advances have been made in presenting this wealth of content to a user in any manner beyond than a simple list.

Detailed herein is a technology which among other things displays content in the context of a geographic map. When content is received access to the content can be enabled through interaction with an appropriate geographic map.

In one approach to this technology multimedia content with an associated geographic tag is received. The geographic tag is used to select an appropriate geographic map for that content. Access to that content can then be obtained through interaction with the geographic map.

In another approach to this technology a system for displaying content is described as including a receiver a geographic categorizer a map generator and a graphical user interface GUI . The receiver receives multimedia content. The geographic categorizer examines a geographic tag associated with the multimedia content. The map generator uses the geographic tag to select an appropriate geographic tag. The GUI displays the map and allows a displayed map to be used to access the multimedia content.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments. While the subject matter will be described in conjunction with the alternative embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to these embodiments. On the contrary the claimed subject matter is intended to cover alternative modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter as defined by the appended claims.

Furthermore in the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However it will be recognized by one skilled in the art that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with equivalents thereof. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects and features of the subject matter.

Portions of the detailed description that follows are presented and discussed in terms of a method. Although steps and sequencing thereof are disclosed in a figure herein e.g. describing the operations of this method such steps and sequencing are exemplary. Embodiments are well suited to performing various other steps or variations of the steps recited in the flowchart of the figure herein and in a sequence other than that depicted and described herein.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits that can be performed on computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure computer executed step logic block process etc. is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present invention discussions utilizing terms such as accessing writing including storing transmitting traversing associating identifying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Computing devices such as computing system environment typically include at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable medium may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device. Vacation media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signals such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Some embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. In light of the quantity of multimedia content available to anyone with Internet access it would be useful to have more than just basic search engine results e.g. a list to help present that content. Moreover the user experience can be enriched through new and different means of presenting information and access to multimedia content to the user.

Presented herein are embodiments of systems and methods of presenting or displaying electronic content. In several of these embodiments electronic content be it video audio web pages text or anything else can be sorted geographically. This geographically sorted content can then be displayed as part of an interactive geographic map. As an example for purposes of illustration and not as a limitation a video created in Chicago in Polish about the Academy Awards in Los Angeles might be accessible from a map of the world by clicking on Poland for the language of the content or maybe by clicking on Chicago for the origin of content or perhaps by clicking on Los Angeles the geographical focus of the content. In the following descriptive exemplary embodiments many different approaches to content presentation will be illustrated.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing embodiments includes a general purpose computing system environment such as computing system environment . In its most basic configuration computing system environment typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing system environment memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line . Additionally computing system environment may also have additional features functionality. For example computing system environment may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and nonremovable storage are all examples of computer storage media.

Computing system environment may also contain communications connection that allow it to communicate with other devices. Communications connection is an example of communication media. Computing system environment may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc.

In some embodiments computing system environment may be connected to an output device such as a display or monitor or speakers. In several such embodiments computing system environment may be incorporated into a multimedia center e.g. as a multimedia computer or integrated into a television or digital video recorder DVR . In other embodiments computing system environment may be incorporated into other devices such as but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop or notebook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a global positioning system GPS device a portable digital music device or any other computing platform. For example computing system environment is shown as connecting to a monitor upon which information may be displayed and to a speaker through which audio output may be played.

In some embodiments computing system environment may have access to remote or networked functionality e.g. information retrievable from an intranet or the Internet remote or networked storage devices or additional computing or graphical rendering functionality. For example computing system environment is depicted as connecting to a remote database from which information may be retrieved.

With reference now to a block diagram of a computing environment is depicted in accordance with one embodiment. While computing environment is shown as incorporating specific enumerated features it is understood that embodiments are well suited to applications with additional fewer or different features and or configurations.

Computing environment is shown as including graphical user interface GUI . In the depicted embodiment graphical user interface is used for displaying information to a user of computing environment .

Computing environment also includes input device . In the environment input device is used for providing input to GUI . Computing environment is shown as including data generator . In the depicted environment data generator is used for accessing content such as multimedia content with a geographic tag. Computing environment also includes map storage . Map storage in the depicted environment could be a database or other data storage means for storing map information.

With reference now to a representation of a graphical user interface GUI is depicted in accordance with one embodiment. While GUI is shown as incorporating specific enumerated features it is understood that such features are exemplary in nature that is GUI could include additional fewer or different features. Embodiments are well suited to use with a wide variety of interfaces both graphical and otherwise.

GUI is shown as displaying a representation of the United States . Representation shows a number of geographic points through . In the depicted embodiment these geographic points roughly correspond to the locations of several major cities. GUI is also shown as displaying an exploded representation of the State of California . Representation in the depicted embodiment also shows a number of geographic points namely points and .

As explained in greater detail below one embodiment allows for access to content by interaction with a geographic map. Content is associated in some way with a specific geographic point e.g. a major US city. When this content is searched for or otherwise accessed by a user they may be able to access different content by selecting from the geographic map e.g. top news stories from various major cities may be accessible by first clicking on the desired cities on GUI .

Further in some embodiments a user of the embodiment shown in may be able to access additional content by zooming in or out of the map. For example by zooming in on the State of California e.g. clicking on representation in a particular manner could cause representation to be displayed a user may access content associated with several cities in California whereas representation only shows a single geographic point. Similarly zooming out on GUI may present an alternative interface showing a larger part of the world and make different content available e.g. international news or news from various other countries.

With reference now to a representation of a graphical user interface GUI is depicted in accordance with one embodiment. While GUI is shown as incorporating specific enumerated features it is understood that such features are exemplary in nature that is GUI could include additional fewer or different features. Embodiments are well suited to use with a wide variety of interfaces both graphical and otherwise.

GUI is shown as displaying a representation of the United States . GUI is also shown as including several content windows through . These content windows in the depicted embodiment are overlaid on top of representation .

As explained in greater detail below one embodiment allows for access and or viewing of content via a geographic map. As depicted in an embodiment can display content over top of the geographic map. For example if a user were to access content relating to weather across North America content windows through could be used to display small video clips of weather conditions in various portions of the country.

With regard to a flowchart of a method of presenting geographically linked content is presented in accordance with one embodiment. Although specific steps are disclosed in flowchart such steps are exemplary. That is embodiments of the present invention are well suited to performing various other additional steps or variations of the steps recited in flowchart . It is appreciated that the steps in flowchart may be performed in an order different than presented and that not all of the steps in flowchart may be performed.

With regards to step geographically tagged content is received. The source of this geographically tagged content will vary across different embodiments. For example in one embodiment this method may be performed with search results obtained from a traditional search engine. Similarly the nature of the link between the content and geography will vary across different embodiments. For example in one embodiment the author or originator of the content may select an appropriate geographic tag.

With respect to GUI receives geographically linked content from data generator in response to a query by a user input via input device .

With respect now to step the geographically tagged content is displayed on an interactive geographic map distributed with reference to the geographic tags. The implementation of this step will vary across different embodiments. In some embodiments for example only access to the content will be displayed on the map. This is the scenario depicted in icons thumbnails or any other indicator of available content could be used in combination with GUI to both make available the content and make the geographical association evident. In other embodiments some or all of the available content could be displayed directly on or on top of the geographic map. This is the scenario depicted in a number of content windows or some other means are used to both depict the content and to make the geographical link clear.

With reference to GUI retrieves one or more maps from map storage as appropriate to the content received. The content is made available through interaction with the appropriate map such as selecting geographic point on representation in order to access content associated with New York City.

With reference now to a block diagram of a search system is depicted in accordance with one embodiment. While search system is shown as incorporating specific enumerated features it is understood that such features are exemplary in nature that is search system could include additional fewer or different features. Embodiments are well suited to use with a wide variety of technology.

Search system is shown as incorporating input device . Input device will vary across different embodiments. In some embodiments for example input device could be a computer keyboard. In other embodiments e.g. an embodiment incorporated into a media center input device could be a television remote control.

Search system is depicted as including computer . The implementation of computer will vary across different embodiments. For example computer may be a desktop or laptop computer. Computer could also be integrated into another device such as a media center computer or a television.

Search system is also shown as including a graphical user interface GUI . Search system includes or has access to content source . Content source will vary across different embodiments. In one embodiment content source could be a search engine or other search functionality operating on computer searching through locally stored content. In another embodiment content source could be an interface to a remote search engine or to a remote content storage. Further multiple content sources could be incorporated into the same search system . Search system is also shown as including geographic filter .

With reference now to a flowchart of a method of filtering available content by a geographic tag is depicted in accordance with one embodiment. Although specific steps are disclosed in flowchart such steps are exemplary. That is embodiments of the present invention are well suited to performing various other additional steps or variations of the steps recited in flowchart . It is appreciated that the steps in flowchart may be performed in an order different than presented and that not all of the steps in flowchart may be performed.

With reference now to step input is received from a content source. In different embodiments this input will take different forms. In some embodiments this input will have one or more geographic links associated with it e.g. a video clip of a news broadcast originating in Los Angeles could include some metadata tag indicating the origin of the clip. Similarly the nature of the content source will vary across different embodiments. In one embodiment for example the content source is a search engine and the input represents search results from a search query. Such a query could originate from a user e.g. the user enters a query or selects from a list of available queries and a search engine provides results.

For example with reference to input device a keyboard is used to query a content source a search engine for searching video clips on a social networking site. Content source produces a list of search results.

With reference now to step a geographic filter is selected. In some embodiments this geographic filter is used to modify the presentation of the input received from the content source. For example if the input for a collection of video clips the clips could have geographic links associated with where they were created where they were most frequently watched or where the subject matter of the clip is located. In such a scenario geographic filters may exist to allow the input to be sorted or displayed by any of these geographic factors.

With reference to a geographic filter could be selected in order to modify the presentation of the video clips returned by content source .

With reference now to step the input is displayed on a map according to the selected geographic filter and with geographic tags associated with the content. The nature of the displaying end of the map will vary across different embodiments. For example in one embodiment content may be displayed over top of a map such that one or more video clips for example may be played over top of the geographic regions from which the originate. In another example embodiment the map may serve to provide access to the content with icons or thumbnails or some other interactive feature displayed according to the geographic tag associated with the content and with the geographic filter selected. Such icons could then be used to access the content.

With reference to and continuing the preceding example computer uses GUI to display the input received from content source as filtered by geographic filter . In one embodiment GUI could appear similar to GUI and the video clips or links to video clips returned by content source could be sorted by the origin of the video file. Some or all of these video files then could be accessed by interacting with representation e.g. clicking on geographic point in order to access video clips that originated in New York City. In another embodiment GUI could appear similar to GUI and a few video clips could be played in the available content windows with content window displaying a clip that originated in New York content window displaying a clip that originated in Washington state and the like.

With reference now a block diagram of a system is depicted in accordance with one embodiment. While system is shown as incorporating specific enumerated features it is understood that such features are exemplary in nature that is system could include additional fewer or different features. Embodiments are well suited to use with a wide variety of technology.

System is shown as incorporating receiver . System is also shown as incorporating optional geographic analyzer . In the depicted embodiment system also includes geographic categories or . System as shown includes map generator . GUI is also included in the depicted embodiment.

With reference now to a flowchart of a method of providing access to content based on a geographic association is presented in accordance with one embodiment. Although specific steps are disclosed in flowchart such steps are exemplary. That is embodiments of the present invention are well suited to performing various other additional steps or variations of the steps recited in flowchart . It is appreciated that the steps in flowchart may be performed in an order different than presented and that not all of the steps in flowchart may be performed.

With reference now to step content is received. The nature of the received content will vary across different embodiments as will the source of the received content. In some embodiments the content received will include data or metadata associated with the content which will indicate some geographic link. In other embodiments no such geographic link will be received. In other embodiments some portion of the received content may include such links.

For example with reference to receiver receives content. Content could originate from a variety of sources and be of a variety of different natures.

With reference now to step the received content is analyzed and a geographic tag is assigned to the content. In some embodiments which include the step the content can be evaluated in order to establish some geographic link or information with respect to that content. For example text or audio content could be evaluated in order to attempt to determine what language is used predominantly within the content. As an additional example the geographic origin of some content can be determined based on other available data e.g. IP addresses. Some embodiments omit the step.

For example with reference to geographic analyzer examines the content received by receiver and attempts to assign one or more geographic tags to the content.

With reference now to step one or more geographic tags associated with the content are examined. In some embodiments such as some of those which include step the geographic tags associated with the content may already be known. In other embodiments some data or metadata tag or other means of indicating geographic data associated with content are examined.

For example with reference to geographic categorizer examines the content received by receiver and reads any geographic tags associated with the content or that may have been created by geographic analyzer .

With reference now to step an appropriate geographic map is selected for the content. In some embodiments this process involves using the geographic tags for the content to select maps appropriate for that content. In some embodiments one or more appropriate maps may be retrieved from a storage device. In some embodiments one or more maps may be freshly generated. In some embodiments a combination of these approaches is utilized. In other embodiments other methods of accessing or generating a map may be utilized.

For example with reference to map generator uses the geographic tags read by geographic categorizer in order to generate an appropriate map for that content.

With reference now to step the map is displayed and allows access to the content through interaction. In some embodiments an approach similar to the described behavior of GUI is utilized with access to the content available through interactive icons displayed on top of the map. In other embodiments an approach similar to the described behavior of GUI is utilized with some or all of the content laid on top of geographic the appropriate portions of the map. In other embodiments different approaches to both map display and content interaction are utilized.

For example with reference to GUI displays the map created by map generator with the content overlaid on the map in geographically appropriate locations as indicated by the geographic tags read by geographic categorizer .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

