---

title: Dual optical path periscope
abstract: A direct vision periscope is disclosed having a second set of mirrors strategically positioned within a wide angle trapezoidal periscope. The main optical path has a vertical field of view of 24° above and below horizontal while the secondary optical path provides a field of view of 12° to 59° above horizontal to allow the occupants to see elevated areas. When used on military vehicles, multiple periscopes may be disposed about the operator's compartment to create a near panoramic view.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07821706&OS=07821706&RS=07821706
owner: BAE Systems Land & Armaments, L.P.
number: 07821706
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070710
---
The invention was made by an agency of the U.S. Government or under a contract with an agency of the U.S. Government. The name of the U.S. Government agency is the United States Army and the Government contract number is W56HZV 05 0724.

The present invention pertains to an apparatus for external viewing from within a secure location and more particularly to a dual optical path trapezoidal wide angle periscope for military applications that includes laser protection ballistics protection and an expanded field of regard to handle threats from above.

The subject of this invention is the design of a new type of direct vision periscope. This periscope is designed to meet requirements for a dramatic increase in the vertical field of regard over existing periscope designs. Here field of regard refers to the number of degrees of visual data available to the sensor when sensor movement is allowed. Existing periscope designs for military applications do not allow a soldier to see an enemy on elevated areas or rooftops in an urban combat setting. This lack of vision capability places greater risks on the soldiers and their equipment. A periscope with a greater vertical field of regard would offer improved capability for area surveillance and hence soldier survivability and safety.

There are no simple direct vision periscopes currently designed that can achieve a vertical field with a range of view of an estimated 24 to 59 . For example the wide angled rapezoidal periscope described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 934 246 provides for a low glint reflection laser eye safe filters and ballistic features. However vertical field of regard is limited by mirror placement within the periscope body. One way to increase the field of regard is with moveable optical systems. However there is always an issue of reliability with complex moveable mirror systems. No current direct vision periscope has the capability of seeing such a large vertical field of regard in a passive device without adjustable mechanism such as moveable or rotating mirrors or moveable mounting devices.

Thus there is a need for periscopes with an increased field of regard obtained passively. The system should not require the operator to make manual adjustments to the viewing system components or to the mounting angle. The periscope should be trapezoidal in shape to take advantage of close semicircular mounting when used in combination with other periscopes to achieve a panoramic exterior view without blind spots. The periscope should also provide ballistics low glint and laser eye safe filters.

The present invention is a dual optical path periscope. The increased vertical field of regard is achieved by creating a second periscope within the body of a more standard periscope design. This is accomplished by adding a second set of mirrors that are strategically placed within the envelope of the standard periscope to create a second optical path that favors looking upward. This second optical path is designed to operate in combination with a primary optical path periscope that favors looking straight ahead and down. Both optical paths have a set of mirrors that are strategically placed within the same housing to economize space and ease of human interaction. The paths overlap within a common housing so that the operator with some intuitive head movement can achieve the entire vertical range requirement.

An advantage of this periscope design is to increase the upward vision capability to at least 45 while not sacrificing the normal forward and down look capability. A second advantage is to achieve upward vision with a passive system that does not require the operator to make adjustments to the viewing system components or to the mounting angle. This passive approach capitalizes on the intuitive human behavioral method of moving the eye position down to look up higher. This intuitive action brings the secondary path into view. The secondary viewing path takes over the upward vision approximately where the primary path left off so as not to confuse the viewer with an interrupted or non continuous view. This is especially advantageous in a military environment where the operator is a soldier encumbered by personal headgear. A third advantage is the ability to mount the periscope into a semi circular configuration closely nested with other similar periscopes to achieve an optimum near panoramic view with direct optics and no distortion.

The present invention involves the creation of a second periscope within a periscope. This second optical viewing path overlaps the normal forward viewing path obtained from the primary set of mirrors. The secondary viewing path utilizes the same although larger than normal interior and exterior windows as the primary viewing path. The overall package maintains similar features to the wide angled trapezoidal periscope in general shape mounting features low glint window angles laser eye safe filters and ballistic features. The wide angled trapezoidal periscope design was chosen because it has desirable features that are enhanced by the new dual path viewing capability. However this dual path design can be applied to older rectangular bodied periscopes as well. In the preferred embodiment each pair of mirrors and windows are parallel to avoid optical distortions.

In the preferred embodiment the main optical path has a vertical field of regard of 24 below to 24 above the horizon. The second optical path has a vertical field of regard of 12 above to 59 above the horizon. In this embodiment the overlap of the two optical paths is 12 but the overlap and the field of regard may be changed accordingly to satisfy specific requirements. Since the design is dependant on the precise vertical cross section and the shape size and placement of the mirrors the periscope can have a variety of widths based upon the application and mounting design for a specific installation.

The front window of the periscope is angled so as to minimize glare reflections and improve the signature management of the periscope and vehicle system. This new periscope is planned for use on military combat vehicles where direct optic vision is required for vehicle control under ballistic protection. Several periscopes mounted closely in a semi circular arrangement provide a near panoramic view of the surrounding environment. When mounted in a hatch they can provide the soldier with unity of vision for close in maneuverability and increasingly important upward view for rooftop and aerial threats. In conjunction with the properly designed hatch or vehicle mounting the periscope with its offset optical path provides ballistic protection for the human operator s head. Distortion free direct optics allows the human operator the passive reliability of natural vision depth perception and situational awareness.

Other indirect vision devices and sensors may also be used to enhance and augment the direct vision of the periscopes.

The wide angle trapezoidal dual path periscope of the present invention is illustrated as being on a military vehicle and depicted in . As illustrated a plurality of periscopes are mounted so as to extend through the hull of the military vehicle . In a first embodiment a plurality of periscopes are situated about the operator s position to provide a wider field of regard than that achieved by a single periscope . Each periscope is positioned between the hatch and the vehicle body or hull . Although the periscope has been illustrated relative to a military vehicle it will be understood that the periscope may be used on either vehicles or in fixed locations. For example the periscope may be used on bomb shelters observation towers or any other location where the observer s safety may be at issue during a direct observation.

The dual path periscope is illustrated in . When used on a military vehicle each of the dual path periscopes include an upper armored housing and a lower housing . The lower housing extends through openings in the hull of the military vehicle . The upper armored housing includes a mating flange for attachment of the lower housing . The dual path periscope is thus generally comprised of an upper armored housing a lower housing and an optical system . The optical system extends from within the lower housing to the upper armored housing and may be a monolithic structure as depicted for example in . The lower housing includes an upper rim which mates with the inner edge of the mating flange of the upper armored housing . It is envisioned that a gasket seal made of silicone or similar material is disposed about the upper margin of the lower housing . At least one fastener is inserted through upper housing aperture to mate with the lower housing aperture although the use of fasteners may be avoided by bonding the housings together with adhesives. It is envisioned that the upper housing apertures are counter sunk so as to maintain a low exterior profile. The fastener may be a screw or any suitable alternative.

The upper housing as illustrated in is comprised of a window aperture an internal shock pad a trapezoidal body and an optics aperture . The window aperture set within the front wall is defined by an upper lip side lips and the mating flange . The upper lip is canted out relative to the mating flange so as to protect the window aperture from rain or falling objects. As a result the window aperture in the first embodiment is disposed at an angle 77 with respect to the horizontal axis. The mating flange extends across the base of the window aperture and then blends into the side walls of the trapezoidal body . The mating flange also extends from the rear wall of the trapezoidal body . The trapezoidal body has a front wall generally longer than the rear wall with side walls evenly angled to intersect the front and rear walls respectively. An upper shock pad conforms to the interior face of rear wall of the upper housing . The upper shock pad is preferably constructed of a silicone sponge of a closed cell design with a self stick pressure adhesive on one side for bonding to the inner surface of rear wall . Mating flange includes an outwardly projecting rim extending distally from upper housing and a base wall extending vertically from the distal end of projecting rim . The base wall forms the outer barrier for the lower housing .

The lower housing is illustrated in . Lower housing includes a body that defines a lower window aperture and a lower optics aperture . Lower housing also includes a shock pad . The body is a generally trapezoidal shaped container comprised of a window face a rear face and lower side walls . The window face is canted so that a lower margin extends beyond the upper window margin . As a trapezoid the window face is longer than the opposing rear face while side walls are angled to run from window face to rear face . An upper rim extends about the upper margin of the lower housing . The upper rim abuts the inner face of projecting rim . Upper window support extends inward from the upper rim so as to act as a base for upper window . On the opposing side mirror support extends inward so as to provide a rear support for elements of the optical system . The shock pad is preferably constructed of a closed cell silicone sponge with a self stick pressure adhesive disposed on one side. The shock pad conforms to the mount section of the rear face .

The lower window is comprised in a preferred embodiment of a clear polycarbonate. The outer surface of lower window includes an abrasive resistant coating. The lower window fits within lower window aperture .

The optical system is disposed about a block of an optical quality material such as plastic methacrylate or similar material. Block as depicted in is a multifaceted structure to support placement of upper primary mirror upper secondary mirror lower primary mirror lower secondary mirror lower window and upper window . Upper window may support laser filter . Block is comprised of an upper mirror section transition section and a lower mirror section . Upper mirror section includes a T shaped front face T shaped rear face trapezoidal upper face and upper side faces . The width of T shaped front face is greater than T shaped rear face . Upper side faces incorporate a cantilevered section that corresponds to the mating flange of upper housing . Transition section includes a lower secondary mirror face transition side faces and transition rear face . Transition rear face has an upper section that supports a lower margin of upper secondary mirror and a lower section that transitions to the lower mirror section . Lower secondary mirror face supports the lower secondary mirror . The width of lower secondary mirror face is greater than the width of transition rear face . Lower mirror section includes lower window face opposing lower primary mirror face side faces and bottom face .

The vertical field of regard of the dual optical path periscope of the present invention is illustrated in based on different viewing options of the operator s eyes. The primary forward path is illustrated so as to show a vertical field of regard of 24 above and 24 below the mounting surface. Primary forward path is achieved through upper primary mirror reflecting light to lower primary mirror . The secondary upward path is illustrated so as to show a vertical field of regard of 59 above and 12 above the mounting surface. The present invention thus utilizes the upper secondary mirror and lower secondary mirror to create an independent optical path within the optical system .

From the foregoing description it is apparent that the trapezoidal periscope of the present invention includes an upper housing which is larger in width and length than the lower housing . Since the lower housing is generally smaller than the upper housing the lower housing extends into the crew operator area.

In operation the dual optical path periscope is disposed about the operator position . The operator chooses one of a plurality of periscopes to utilize. When the operator s eyes are in a normal eye position as indicated by Path in the operator will see reflections from upper primary mirror to lower primary mirror . The field of regard for the operator utilizing Path is 24 to 24 . The vertical field of regard for the operator utilizing Path is 24 to 59 . In a preferred embodiment the operator does not experience a transition zone between the two optical paths however an optical transition zone may exist between Path and Path so that the operator is aware of the differing optical paths.

Although the preferred embodiment is disclosed it will be apparent that modification and variation may be made without departing from what is regarded to be the subject matter of the invention.

