---

title: Local business ranking using mapping information
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for ranking local businesses. One or more signals indicating one or more actions related to a plurality of business listings are received. The business listings are ranked based on the signals. A search query is received, and in response to the search query, one or more of the business listings are presented in an order based at least on the ranking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08312010&OS=08312010&RS=08312010
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08312010
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070816
---
Local business searching has become a popular feature in some search engines. Local business search helps users find businesses near a particular geographic location that can serve their needs. Local business search can benefit businesses by providing additional exposure. Local business search can benefit consumers by providing consumers a convenient way to find local businesses.

Many search engines perform some kind of ranking on search results to give the user some basis of comparison amongst search results. Any number of signals can be used for the ranking. For local business search signals that indicate popularity ratings or the like are not readily available. As a result the rankings of local businesses in a local business search may be less informative.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of receiving one or more signals indicating one or more actions related to a plurality of business listings ranking the business listings based on the signals receiving a search query and in response to the search query presenting one or more of the business listings in an order based at least on the ranking. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Local businesses can be ranked by the level of interest users show in the respective businesses as indicated by user actions on maps indicating the businesses. Local businesses can be compared relative to each other on criteria other than location. Association analysis can be performed on the user actions to determine possible business recommendations based on past groups of searches or to predict business in which the user is interested.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The local search system provides access to services for searching for businesses in the vicinity of a specified location. Users accessing the local search system can enter a query that specifies a location and one or more keywords which can be a complete or partial name of a business . The local search system returns as search results listings of businesses in the vicinity of the specified location that match or are associated with the entered keyword s . In some implementations the results can be displayed on a map in conjunction with the mapping system .

The mapping system provides access to mapping services. The mapping system accepts location data e.g. an address as input generates a map by identifying map images appropriate for the input location data and a map scale level and transmits the generated map for presentation to a user. In some implementations the mapping system can also accept an origin location and a destination location as inputs determine a route e.g. a driving route with directions between the origin location and the destination location and display the route on the appropriate map images. In some implementations the map images include street map images and optionally satellite images of locations.

In some implementations the local search system and the mapping system are component systems of a local search service .

The third party search engine can also provide access to local search services. The third party search engine is external to the local search system and mapping system . The local search services provided by third party search engine can be different from that provided by local search system . For example the third party search engine can offer city specific searches and additional content e.g. reviews city guides etc. . In some implementations the third party search engine can transmit data to the mapping system . The mapping system identifies the relevant map images based on the transmitted data. The map images can be embedded into a page generated by the third party search engine . In some implementations the third party search engine transmits data to the mapping system using an application programming interface API . Thus in some implementations the third party search engine receives map data that is syndicated from mapping system the third party search engine is a syndicated mapping service.

The user client facilitates user access to the local search system mapping system and or the third party search engine . In some implementations the user client is a device that can connect to the network . The user client transmits data to and receives data from systems and other devices directly or through the network . Examples of devices that can be a user client include desktop computers notebook computers tablet computers personal digital assistants mobile phones smartphones and other fixed and mobile electronic devices.

The local business search system includes a local search engine and a mapping engine . In some implementations the local search engine is a part of the local search system and the mapping engine is a part of the mapping system . The local search engine and the mapping engine can be parts of the local search service .

The local search engine includes a query engine a ranking module and business data . The query engine receives queries for businesses finds the businesses in the business data that matches the queries and returns the matching businesses as search results to a user client . The ranking module ranks the businesses included in the business data based on one or more criteria. Further details regarding the ranking of the businesses are described below.

The business data includes information regarding businesses. The business data can include listings of businesses and data associated with the businesses. The business listings can include for a particular business the name and contact information e.g. physical address phone number fax number email address website URL etc. of the business. Other information associated with a business e.g. a picture of the physical storefront of the business etc. can be stored in the business data as well. In some implementations the business data is implemented as a database e.g. a MySQL database .

The mapping engine includes a map query engine a mapping module map images and location and geocode data . The map query engine receives queries for locations e.g. addresses matches the locations to the appropriate geocodes identifies the map images in map images that correspond to the matched geocodes and nearby areas and returns the map images to the mapping module . In some implementations the map query engine can also accept a query for a route between a starting location and a destination location. The map query engine determines a route between the two locations and generates a map on which the locations and the route can be presented.

The mapping module generates maps by piecing together map images e.g. street map images topographical map images satellite images of locations etc. and transmitting the images to a user client for presentation to a user. The mapping module can also retrieve and transmit map images of different scales in response to user requests to zoom in or zoom out on a map. Further the mapping module can overlay other information on the map images for presentation to the user. For example the mapping module can overlay location markers a route and waypoints on the route that are associated with driving directions etc. on the map images.

Map images is a data store of images from which maps can be generated. The map images can include for example street map images and satellite images. Map images includes images that show a location at various scales so that a map can be zoomed in or out refreshing the map using map images at a different scale.

Location and geocode data includes mappings between locations and geocodes. The locations can include street addresses and street number ranges landmarks etc. For example in some implementations the location and geocode data can be a database of addresses mapped to latitude longitude coordinates or some other geographic coordinate system

In some implementations the system includes a third party search engine . The third party search engine includes a query engine a mapping engine API and business data . The third party search engine can have its own set of business data . The query engine receives queries matches the queries to matching businesses in business data and returns the matching businesses to a user client .

In some implementations the query engine can generate a result page that includes an embedded map generated by mapping engine . The third party search engine transmits a request to generate a map and the needed information for generation of the map to the mapping engine using a mapping engine API . The mapping engine receives the information generates the map and transmits the generated map to the third party search engine using the API.

A user client provides access to the local search engine mapping engine and the third party search engine . In some implementations a user accesses the engines through a client application e.g. a web browser .

In some implementations the local search engine can include other content along with the search results. For example the search results page can include links to reviews of a business additional details about the business an image of the storefront of the business and links to webpages that have content relating to the business. In some implementations the local search engine includes a crawler module not shown for crawling other content providers e.g. third party search engine websites etc. for these additional content for inclusion in the search results page.

In some implementations the local search engine can return search results in conjunction with the mapping engine . For example when the local search engine receives a query the query engine identifies listings of matching businesses in the business data . The local search engine transmits the addresses of the matching businesses to the mapping engine . The map query engine matches the business addresses to geocodes and identifies the map images corresponding to the geocodes. The local search engine generates a search results page that includes an embedded map. The embedded map is generated by the mapping module from the identified map images and includes markers indicating the matching businesses and other information.

The local search engine mapping engine third party search engine and the user client can be connected by one or more networks .

When a user selects a business name in the matching businesses list or a marker additional information related to the selected business is displayed. The additional information can include links to additional features or content related to the corresponding business. In some implementations the links include a link to request driving directions to the business a link to have the name and contact information of the business sent to a device e.g. to a mobile phone or smartphone by SMS a link to initiate a phone connection between the phone number of the business and a phone number specified by the user and a link to open a search box for searching for businesses near the matching business. User selection of any of these links can be used as a signal for ranking the business as described in further detail below.

In some implementations the additional information can include a thumbnail of the storefront of the business and a link to an image of the storefront of the business. Selection of the link to the image of the storefront of the business can also be used as a signal for ranking the business.

The businesses in the matching businesses list can be ordered within the list based on a ranking of the businesses. illustrates an example process for ranking business listings. For convenience the process will be described in reference to a system e.g. system that performs the operations of the process.

One or more signals indicating address queries in a mapping service are received . In some implementations the mapping engine can receive address queries which are requests to the mapping engine to generate maps with the positions of the queried addresses indicated on the maps. In these implementations the queries are the signals. In some other implementations the third party search engine can receive queries for addresses. The third party search engine makes requests to the mapping engine through the mapping engine API to generate maps indicating the queried addresses. In these implementations the signals are the requests from the third party search engine to the mapping engine through the API for maps indicating the queried addresses. In one implementation the signals include both address queries directly submitted to the mapping engine and requests for maps submitted by the third party search engine through the API .

For each distinct address included in the signals a count for the address is maintained . Thus for example whenever an address is queried a count for the address is incremented. The count tracks the number of times the address has been queried. In some implementations the counts are maintained at the mapping engine .

A query count for an address is associated with a corresponding business . For an address the address and its count are transmitted to the local search engine . The address is matched with a business listing in business data . If a matching business for the address is found the count is associated with the business listing in the business data .

The businesses listings in the business data are scored based at least on their associated counts . For a business listing a score can be calculated based on its query count and possibly additional factors. The scores provide a basis of relative comparison between the business listings the business listings can be ranked and ordered based on the scores. For example in the list of matching businesses the businesses can be presented in an order based on their scores with the business listings with higher scores presented closer to the top of the list.

Signals indicating actions related to business listings are received . A signal can be any indication of an action related to a business listing. A signal provides for example a hint of user interest in a particular business. An example of a signal indicating an action related to a business listing is a query for an address corresponding to a business described above in relation to the user submitting the query shows some interest in the business by querying its address.

Another example of a signal indicating an action related to a business listing is a user action related to a business listing on a map generated by a mapping service e.g. mapping engine . As described above in relation to a search result page includes a matching businesses list of business listings and can indicate locations of the matching businesses on a map . When the search result page is presented to a user the user can interact with the search results page . An example of a user action is a selection of a business listing in the matching businesses list or a map marker corresponding to the business. In response to the user selection of the business listing or the map marker additional information corresponding to the selected business is displayed. Another example of a user action is a selection of any of the links get directions to the business request transmission of the business listing to a mobile phone establish connection between the business phone number and a user specified phone number searching for nearby businesses or a link to a full size image of the storefront of the business. When any of these links are selected a corresponding request is sent to the mapping engine at which the request is processed by the mapping engine .

In some implementations further examples of user actions that can be used as signals include requests for map information for a business made from a toolbar add on to a web browser or some other application email content e.g. a user includes the address of a business in an email or a number of page views on pages that show a business address.

Yet another example of a signal is a query to the local search engine for a particular type of business within the vicinity of a particular location. For example a user can query for pizza restaurants near Palo Alto Calif. The search results for the query are businesses that satisfy the query. The query provides some hint of interest in the businesses included in the search results.

In some implementations map data requests from a third party search engine submitted through an API can also be used as signals for ranking businesses. A third party search engine can make the requests when a user searches for businesses at the third party search engine and requests a map of the matching businesses. Similar to the address query or the query for businesses near a location the searches at the third party search engine provide a hint that users are interested in certain businesses.

As described above any of the above user actions can be used as a signal for ranking businesses. When a user action is performed for a particular business a count associated with the business and for the type of the signal e.g. an address query a request for directions etc. is updated. In some implementations the counts are maintained at the mapping engine and or local search engine .

In some implementations multiple signals e.g. the various counts for actions described above etc. can be used to rank businesses. For example the signals can be combined in a weighted manner and the combined signal is used to determine rankings for businesses. An example of combining signals is further described below.

Businesses are ranked based on the signals . In some implementations the signals that have been collected and counted as described above are used to score the businesses and the businesses are ranked based on their scores. For a particular business the score can be calculated by combining the counts associated with the business for each type of signal. In some implementations the counts are combined in a linear combination e.g. score aC bC . . . with weights a b etc. and counts C C etc. for each type of signal.

In some implementations certain signals are weighted more highly than others to reflect their relative value in indicating interest in a business. For example signals corresponding to business type queries can be given a small weight e.g. 0.01 . Signals corresponding to map requests for an address that matches a business or signals corresponding to requests from third party search engine can be given a larger weighted e.g. 0.10 . Signals corresponding to user actions on a map e.g. request for directions to a business request to call a business etc. can be given an even larger weight e.g. 1.00 .

A search query for businesses is received . A user can submit a query to the local search engine from a user client .

In response to the query one or more businesses are presented in an order based on the ranking . The local search engine receives the query and looks in the business data for businesses that match the query. For example if the query is for sushi near mountain view ca the query engine looks in the business data for sushi restaurants in the vicinity of Mountain View Calif. The query engine also retrieves the scores of the matching businesses.

The matching businesses are inserted into a search results list and are ordered in the list based at least on their scores that were calculated from the collected signals. That is a business with a higher score is displayed higher in the list. In some implementations the distance of the business from the location specified in the query can also affect the ordering along with the score. For example the distance and the score calculated from the signals can be combined into a combined score using a linear combination with the distance weighted by a first weight and the score calculated from the signal weighted by a second weight. The search results list is transmitted to a user client for presentation to a user.

The memory is a computer readable medium such as volatile or non volatile memory that stores information within the system . The memory could store data structures representing business data map images or location and geocode data for example. The storage device is capable of providing persistent storage for the system . The storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device or other suitable persistent storage means. The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The disclosed and other embodiments and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The disclosed and other embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter or a combination of one or more them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the disclosed embodiments can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The disclosed embodiments can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of what is disclosed here or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what being claims or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understand as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

