---

title: System and methods related to an available balance debit/credit card
abstract: A wirelessly updated consumer spending card includes a spending card housing, a memory module on the spending card housing, a processor module on the spending card housing in operable communication with the memory module, an output display on the spending card housing in operable communication with the processor, a transceiver on the spending card housing operable for wirelessly transmitting and receiving data across a metropolitan area in operable communication with the processor and display, and a power source on the spending card housing in operable connectivity to the memory, processor, transceiver and display. The card may further include a biometric input device on the spending card housing in operable communication with the processor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08820638&OS=08820638&RS=08820638
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08820638
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070727
---
This application is related to subject matter disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 829 835 filed Jul. 26 2007 entitled System and Methods Related To An Available Balance Debit Credit Card and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 829 842 filed Jul. 26 2007 entitled System and Methods Related To An Available Balance Debit Credit Card. The contents of each of the above referenced U.S. patent applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright 2007 USAA.

Consumers are often in need of account and other information regarding their debit credit card. This may include items such as account status available balance and other information. Currently card holders either call or log on to their account over the internet to get the desired information regarding their account. Also financial institutions and card issuers are in constant searches for new and effective ways to get relevant information to their card holders such as offers for new products and other marketing information that may be of interest to particular customers. Currently the main forms of communication between the card holders and the financial institutions is by phone mail or internet. These methods are often inconvenient and costly for both the financial institution and card holder.

In one embodiment a wirelessly updated consumer spending card includes but is not limited to a housing a memory module integrated with the housing a processor coupled to the memory module one or more displays integrated with the housing operably coupled to the processor a transceiver integrated with the housing configured to wirelessly receive account information from a remote device over a cellular network and a power source integrated with the housing operably coupled to the memory module the processor the transceiver and the one or more displays.

It can be appreciated by one of skill in the art that one or more various aspects of the disclosure may include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

Referring to shown is a block diagram representing an exemplary computing device suitable for use in conjunction with providing a system with which a wirelessly updated credit debit card can communicate and receive updates. For example the computer executable instructions that carry out the processes and methods to communicate updates to a wirelessly updated credit debit card may reside and or be executed in such a computing environment as shown in . The computing system environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the disclosed technology. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment .

Aspects of the disclosed technology are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the disclosed technology include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Aspects of the disclosed technology may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the disclosed technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing aspects of the disclosed technology includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus as well as its successor the PCI Express standard. In some embodiments the exemplary system may additionally include a graphics interface that renders graphics video memory that can be used to cache graphics and a GPU that executes the instructions to render graphics.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic long and short range radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through an non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as an insecure or secure video interface . An exemplary secure video standard would be the High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI standard. In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through a output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosure or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosure. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the disclosed technology e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the disclosure in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the disclosure is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the disclosure may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers handheld devices supercomputers or computers integrated into other systems such as automobiles and airplanes.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Referring next to shown is an exemplary networked computing environment of which the wirelessly updated credit debit card may be a part of and in which many computerized processes may be implemented to provide updates to the wirelessly updated credit debit card. For example object may represent a wirelessly updated credit debit card as one of the various clients on the network of using and or implementing systems that provide the means of communication between various clients and servers on the network. In this regard any computer system or environment having any number of processing memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring simultaneously is considered suitable for use in connection with the systems and methods provided.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the processes described herein.

This network may itself comprise other computing entities that provide services to the system of and may itself represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with an aspect of the disclosure each entity and may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware to request services of one or more of the other entities and .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any entity and can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in and the further diversification that can occur in computing in a network environment such as that of the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture or operating system. Instead the disclosure should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Referring next to it illustrates a front exterior view of an example wirelessly updated credit debit card with one or more displays. In this example embodiment the card may include one or more displays and or that can be activated and display the available balance of the card a card account number the card holder s name and or card s expiration date . Additionally one skilled in the art will appreciate that the entire front panel of the card may be a display and the example card disclosed is not a limiting example. In addition to the one or more displays the card may include a biometric input area e.g. thumbprint reader an area for the bank or financial institution s name and or logo and an area for the credit card network name and or logo which is often a holographic image . The card may be approximately the size of a standard sized credit card. For example the ID 1 format of the International Organization for Standardization ISO 7810 specifies a size of 85.60 53.98 mm 3.370 2.125 in with a thickness of 0.76 mm and corners rounded with a radius of 3.18 mm. This size is commonly used for banking cards ATM cards credit cards debit cards etc. and is suitable for the example wirelessly updated credit debit card with a dynamic display described herein. However other sizes and standards for identification or banking cards may also be suitable.

As illustrated in the one or more displays and or may be any thin film display that is able to be integrated with a credit debit card of the approximate size described above. For example aspects of the present disclosure may utilize displays that comprise a thin flexible display such as a light emitting polymer LEP display for displaying information denoting account information and or other information. The LEP display may cover for example a portion of the surface of the card i.e. section section etc. or one display may cover the whole surface of at least one side of the card not shown . Also the display may be touch sensitive e.g. it may provide the user with a number of graphical images which enable the user to selectively chose a card feature by touching selected parts of the touch sensitive display.

The card can include a microprocessing unit MPU for executing instructions stored in a memory a liquid crystal display LCD coupled to the MPU for displaying information a keypad coupled to the MPU and to the display for entering data by the user an interface for transferring signals between the card and an external system such as a card reader a point of sale terminal POS terminal or an automated teller machine when the smart card is in short range of the external system. The card can include photovoltaic cells for providing power to the card when the card is exposed to light.

Referring next to shown is a back exterior view of the example wirelessly updated credit debit card with a dynamic display of . Shown is a credit card magnetic strip area a card holder signature area that may in some embodiments be contained within a display and include a digital image of the user s signature and a card microprocessor processing device .

Referring next to shown is an interior view of the example wirelessly updated credit debit card of showing an example configuration of various high level components within the card. Shown is a microprocessor a RF transceiver an integrated antenna a memory module a biometric input module a thin battery connected to an energy supply such as a photovoltaic cell an example display and a system bus communicatively connecting these major components.

The thin battery is that which provides enough power to operate the other individual components within the card such as batteries available from Thin Battery Technologies Inc. located in Parma Ohio. Example battery specifications are as follows Thickness2 Volts Size 2.2 2.9 cm rechargeable

The biometric input area is an area that reads biometric identification data. This may be for example a thumb or fingerprint reader voiceprint reader using a built in microphone or facial feature data reader using a built in camera . The thumbprint reader may be for example a silicon integrated sensor device such as those available from AuthenTec Inc. located in Melbourne Fla.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure the RF transceiver can send and receive long range RF signals such as cellular telephone signals. A suitable transceiver may be included in a RF transceiver integrated circuit chip such as the BCM2085 65 nm CMOS DigRF EDGE Cellular Transceiver available from Broadcom Corporation located in Irvine Calif. This example transceiver chip is a 65 nm CMOS single chip quad band GSM GPRS EDGE RF transceiver for GSM850 EGSM900 DCS1800 PCS1900 voice and data applications. In other embodiments the RF transceiver may include a Bluetooth transceiver a 802.XX transmitter such as a WiMAX transceiver or a WiFi transceiver or an active or passive RFID tag. Other suitable transceivers may include but are not limited to any transceiver that has wireless capabilities and a small form factor.

The antenna is embedded within the card and is operatively connected to the RF transceiver . The antenna may be looped around the perimeter of the card and or across the card if the antenna is located on a different plane within the card than the other components for isolation purposes. In at least one embodiment the antenna may be an isolated magnetic Dipole IMD internal cellular antenna.

Referring next to it depicts an exploded perspective side view of the wirelessly updated credit debit card of along with a perspective side view of a completed assembly of the card. Shown are four example layers. However the number and type of layers may vary depending on the number and type of particular internal components included within the card . The top layer is the Antenna Display Biometric input layer . Next coupled to the Antenna Display Biometric input e.g. fingerprint layer is the Digital Processor Memory layer . Coupled to the Digital Processor Memory layer is the Battery Energy Scavenging layer . Finally coupled to the Battery Energy Scavenging layer is the Substrate Shield layer . These layers all coupled together with the substrate shield layer being an outside layer form a unified thin film card assembly .

Referring now to it illustrates an example system wherein aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied. The example system of is described in more detail below with respect to how the elements depicted interrelate with the operational procedures illustrated in the flow charts through . One skilled in the art will note that the example elements depicted in are provided to illustrate an operational context to practice aspects of the present disclosure. Thus the example operational context is to be treated as illustrative only and in no way limits the scope of the claims. Furthermore those skilled in the art will note that some elements depicted in are indicated in dashed lines which in general and throughout the disclosure is indicative of the fact that they are considered optional and or they are considered to be optionally located at their position within their respective figure.

Generally speaking the exemplarily system includes a financial institution that can include or have access to one or more databases of information that contain one or more user accounts. The one or more databases of information can be coupled to a database management program that can perform complex operations to control the organization storage and retrieval of data in the databases. The system of additionally includes a card similar to that described above that has an RF module and one or more displays and or for example. Additionally the card includes in some embodiments a biometric reader . As shown in the RF module of the card can in some embodiments be in wireless communication with a long range wireless tower that is electronically coupled to a long range wireless service provider i.e. a provider of long range wireless signals such as signals in the cellular frequency band. In additional or alternative embodiments of the present disclosure and described in more detail below the long range signal tower may be in wireless communication with a user s cellular phone . In these and other embodiments the cellular phone may be in wireless communication with the RF module of the card . In this situation the long range signal tower may transmit information to the cellular phone and the cellular phone may transmit the same or additional information to the RF module using a cellular signal or a short range RF signal such as Bluetooth or RFID. additionally depicts a close proximity RF system such as the router of . The router may include but is not limited to one or more hardware modules that include circuitry for enabling the router to communicate utilizing an 802 protocol such as 802.11 WiFi or 802.16 WiMAX .

Referring now to it illustrates an example operational flow chart that depicts aspects of the present disclosure. Operation illustrates updating a financial institution s database with information related to a user account. These updates may be made for example by utilizing point of sale transaction terminals that are currently in use in most retail stores that handle credit debit transactions. Or in the same or another embodiment the update may be some other activity that affects the balance of an account i.e. the update may be a paycheck deposit ACH payment withdrawal fees charged by the bank interest paid etc. A specific example of how a point of sale terminal is utilized in aspects of the present disclosure may include one or more credit card readers that can access the account information stored within the card when the user makes a purchase. Information related to the transaction can then be sent through one or more networks to the issuer of the card or to a processing center that is configured to authorize credit debit transactions for one or more financial institutions. The database may include one or more programs or modules for determining when to authorize charges to the account and one of these programs or modules may be invoked to determine whether or not to authorize or deny the transaction. In the event that the transaction is authorized the financial institution may then transmit an authorization message back through the network to the POS terminal and a receipt can be printed for the user. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure one or more programs or modules may monitor transaction activity of the user s account and update the user s account to reflect the transaction i.e. in a debt card scenario the account of the user may be debited and in a credit card scenario the available balance of the card may be updated.

As illustrated by operation in this example embodiment after the user account is updated with information related to the transaction the financial institution can transmit a signal indicative of the account information to the cellular service provider . For example the financial institution may be affiliated with one or more cellular providers and the financial institution can transmit one or more packets of information indicative of the balance in a user s account to the cellular provider s network operations center. A specific example of what information can be transmitted may include sending a signal that identifies that the transaction has taken place i.e. if a user with an account balance of 1000.00 makes a purchase of 600.00 with their debit card once the user s account in the database is updated with information indicative of the transaction a signal indicative of the new balance in this example 400.00 can be transmitted to the cellular tower . Another specific example may include but is not limited to a financial institution transmitting a signal indicative of the current transaction instead of the resulting balance to the cellular tower . In this embodiment the card may contain a record of the user s transactions and the card may use an adding subtracting function of the CPU of the card to modify the transaction record stored within the card to obtain the account s current balance. While two different specific examples of operation are disclosed one skilled in the art will appreciate that these are exemplary and that other types of information may be transmitted in operation .

Once the long range signal service provider receives the account information it can be transmitted to the card as illustrated by operation . The account information possibly encrypted can be sent to address of the card . For example the card may include information that identifies it to the wireless network it is in communication with. In the example where the wireless network is a cellular network the card may have been previously assigned a number by the long range signal provider that is stored in a database along with an association relating it to the number to the account of the user maintained by the financial provider i.e. a database table may associate account 1234 1234 1234 1234 to phone number 555 555 5555. In some embodiments once the account information is received by the long range signal service provider it may wirelessly transmit the information to the card as depicted by operation . In this situation the long range signal service provider may transmit the information at predetermined intervals for example after the card transmits a packet of information indicative of a request for the account information or the account information can be pushed to the card as soon as it receives the information and identifies where the card is in the network i.e. by sending a location update request to the card .

In at least one other embodiment of the present disclosure the account information may be transmitted to the card when the RF module is activated. In this embodiment of operation the card user turns on activates the RF module in order to receive the account information. This activation may be accomplished by for example touching the biometric input area or an alternative input area i.e. transmit receive button of the card . In this example after the user touches the biometric input area the RF module may connect with the cell tower to receive the account balance.

As illustrated in operation the account information can then be displayed on the screen s . The information displayed may be for example account balance status recent transaction information advertisements a graphic image any other alert or message or any combination of these items. This information may also be stored in memory on the card for buffering or for a variety of future uses such as to compare old data with new data being received. In some embodiments the card may automatically turn off as illustrated by optional operation via a timer to save battery and or for security purposes.

Referring next to it illustrates an example operational flow chart in which the wirelessly updated credit debit card of is updated via a card holders cellular phone . As depicted by operation a financial institution s database is updated with card account information similar to that described above with respect to operation . This account information is transmitted to a wireless communication service provider. This may be a long range signal service provider for example. As shown by operation the long range signal service provider can then start transmitting possibly encrypted account information to the specific phone number of the cellular phone or other portable wireless digital device of the account holder. As shown by operation the cell phone can then store the account information in for example memory of the cellular phone such as RAM and then the transceiver not shown in the cell phone can start transmitting the encrypted account information to the card once the phone and the card are connected to each other as illustrated by operation and . For example in some embodiments of the present disclosure the cellular phone may include an RFID reader for example. In this embodiment the card may include a passive or active RFID tag that is configured to be reprogrammed with information transmitted by the phone when a RFID tag comes within range of the cell phone s RFID tag reader not shown . Another specific example may include both the cellular phone of the user and the card including Bluetooth adapters. In this example when the card comes in close range of the phone the two Bluetooth adapters may connect and the phone may transmit the account information to the card. This account information is then displayed on the card when for example the user activates their card by placing their finger on the biometric reader .

Referring next to it depicts an operational flow chart illustrating an example operational process in which the wirelessly updated credit debit card of is updated via for example a WiFi WiMAX or other local area or metropolitan area computer network. First the financial institution s database is updated with card account information similar to that described above with respect to operation . As illustrated by operation the user may enter an area that includes coverage provided by one or more routers utilizing technology such as WiMax or WiFi. Then as shown by operation the card can connect to such a network and transmit one or more packets of information indicative of a request to access the user s account and receive the user s balance. In some embodiments this may be accomplished by providing the card with hardware software or firmware configured to connect to any available public network and submit a http or secure http request to the router associated with the WiMax or WiFi router in the coverage area. The router can then submit the request to an internet service provider ISP wherein the ISP may route the request to one or more other ISPs until the request arrives at a server maintained by the financial provider . As shown by operation the user can be validated by the financial provider . In response the server may transmit one or more packets of information indicative of account information back throughout the system to the card as shown by operation and thereafter the available balance of the user may be displayed on the screen of the card as illustrated by operation .

Referring next to it depicts an operational flow chart illustrating aspects of the present disclosure including biometric security features. In some embodiments of the present disclosure instead of continuously displaying the information in the display the screen may display information when the user is authenticated. This reduces the likelihood that an unauthorized user will obtain the card number or the balance of the account for example. In this example the financial institution s database is updated with card account information. This updated account information is transmitted to a long range signal service provider or in other embodiments accessible through an internet connection provided by a WiMAX network for example. As depicted by operation the long range signal service provider can transmit possibly encrypted account information to the specific phone number or network address of the card . At some point the card user can turn on activate the card to receive the account information through the wireless transceiver in the card . This activation may be accomplished for example by touching the biometric input area or an alternative input area of the card The biometric data captured by the biometric reader e.g. thumbprint reader can then be stored for example temporarily on the card memory module . The card can then send biometric data via the long range signal service provider or the internet connection maintained by a router s associated with a local area network to the financial institution . The financial institution can then verify the biometric data the card holder having previously provided their biometric data to the financial institution for security purposes . The financial institution can then send a signal to the card via the long range long range signal service provider for example to allow account information to be displayed. The received account information is then displayed on the display . The information received and or displayed on the display may be for example account balance status recent transaction information advertisements a graphic image any other alert or message or any combination of these items. This information may also be stored in memory on the card for buffering or for a variety of future uses such as to compare old data with new data being received. Optionally the card may automatically turn off via a timer used by the card processor to save battery and or for security purposes.

Operational flow of illustrates an example operational flow that depicts biometric security features of the present disclosure. For example as illustrated by operation illustrates a user entering their biometric information. As discussed earlier biometric information may include but is not limited to the user s thumbprint voice profile facial features or any other biometric information. As shown by operation the biometric receiver on the card may receive the information and in some embodiments process the information utilizing the card s microprocessor in order to determine if the user is authorized. For example when the card is issued to the user the issuer the financial services provider may capture the thumbprint or take a picture of the user. In this example the image of the print or user can be digitized and stored in the card s memory i.e. in nonvolatile read only memory. When the information is received by the biometric receiver it may process utilizing the processor the information and attempt to match the received image to the image stored in memory using a matching algorithm or technique as shown by operation . As shown by operation in the event that the user is authorized i.e. the biometric information of the user matches the stored digital file the display etc. of the card may be energized and display any information otherwise the operational procedure may stop at . As illustrated by operation some information may not need to be updated such as the account number expiration date user s signature etc. This type of information may be immediately displayed in the screen in operation . Other type of account information such as the available balance of the user may need to be updated before it can be displayed. In this situation the RF transceiver of the card can be activated at and the updated account information may be received at before being displayed to the user

The various systems methods and techniques described herein may be implemented with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the present disclosure or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computer will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The methods of the present invention may also be embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer a video recorder or the like the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosure. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to perform the functionality of the systems and methods described herein.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating there from. Furthermore it should be emphasized that a variety of computer platforms including handheld device operating systems and other application specific hardware software interface systems are herein contemplated especially as the number of wireless networked devices continues to proliferate. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Finally the disclosed embodiments described herein may be adapted for use in other processor architectures computer based systems or system virtualizations and such embodiments are expressly anticipated by the disclosures made herein and thus the present invention should not be limited to specific embodiments described herein but instead construed most broadly.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein.

