---

title: Method and apparatus for choosing a sector based on a scaled forward link metric
abstract: Methods and apparatus for selecting a serving sector in a high rate data (HDR) communication system are disclosed. An exemplary HDR communication system defines a set of data rates, at which a sector of an Access Point may send data packets to an Access Terminal. The sector is selected by the Access Terminal to achieve the highest data throughput while maintaining a targeted packet error rate. The Access Terminal employs various methods to evaluate quality metrics of forward and reverse links from and to different sectors, and uses the quality metrics to select the sector to send data packets to the Access Terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08094623&OS=08094623&RS=08094623
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08094623
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070315
---
The present Application for Patent is a Continuation and claims priority to patent application Ser. No. 09 915 736 entitled Method and Apparatus for Adaptive Server Selection in a Data Communication System filed Jul. 26 2001 now allowed which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 6 757 520 issued Jun. 29 2004 entitled Method and Apparatus for Selecting a Serving Sector in a Data Communication System and currently assigned to the assignee of the present application.

The present invention relates generally to communication systems and more specifically to a method and an apparatus for selecting a serving sector in a data communication system.

Communication systems have been developed to allow transmission of information signals from an origination station to a physically distinct destination station. In transmitting information signal from the origination station over a communication channel the information signal is first converted into a form suitable for efficient transmission over the communication channel. Conversion or modulation of the information signals involve varying a parameter of a carrier wave in accordance with the information signal in such a way that the spectrum of the resulting modulated carrier is confined within the communication channel bandwidth. At the destination station the original information signal is replicated from the modulated carrier wave received over the communication channel. Such a replication is generally achieved by using an inverse of the modulation process employed by the origination station.

Modulation also facilitates multiple access i.e. simultaneous transmission and or reception of several signals over a common communication channel. Multiple access communication systems often include a plurality of remote subscriber units requiring intermittent service of relatively short duration rather than continuous access to the common communication channel. Several multiple access techniques are known in the art such as time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA and amplitude modulation multiple access AM . Another type of a multiple access technique is a code division multiple access CDMA spread spectrum system that conforms to the TIA EIA IS 95 Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wide Band Spread Spectrum Cellular System hereinafter referred to as the IS 95 standard. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS and U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM both assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

A multiple access communication system may be a wireless or wire line and may carry voice and or data. An example of a communication system carrying both voice and data is a system in accordance with the IS 95 standard which specifies transmitting voice and data over the communication channel. A method for transmitting data in code channel frames of fixed size is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 504 773 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE FORMATTING OF DATA FOR TRANSMISSION assigned to the assignee of the present invention. In accordance with the IS 95 standard the data or voice is partitioned into code channel frames that are 20 milliseconds wide with data rates as high as 14.4 Kbps. Additional examples of a communication systems carrying both voice and data comprise communication systems conforming to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP embodied in a set of documents including Document Nos. 3G TS 25.211 3G TS 25.212 3G TS 25.213 and 3G TS 25.214 the W CDMA standard or TR 45.5 Physical Layer Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems the IS 2000 standard .

In a multiple access communication system communications between users are conducted through one or more base stations. A first user on one subscriber station communicates to a second user on a second subscriber station by transmitting data on a reverse link to a base station. The base station receives the data and can route the data to another base station. The data is transmitted on a forward link of the same base station or the other base station to the second subscriber station. The forward link refers to transmission from a base station to a subscriber station and the reverse link refers to transmission from a subscriber station to a base station. Likewise the communication can be conducted between a first user on one mobile subscriber station and a second user on a landline station. A base station receives the data from the user on a reverse link and routes the data through a public switched telephone network PSTN to the second user. In many communication systems e.g. IS 95 W CDMA IS 2000 the forward link and the reverse link are allocated separate frequencies.

An example of a data only communication system is a high data rate HDR communication system that conforms to the TIA EIA IS 856 industry standard hereinafter referred to as the IS 856 standard. This HDR system is based on a communication system disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 571 211 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HIGH RATE PACKET DATA TRANSMISSION issued on Jun. 3 2003 assigned to the assignee of the present invention. The HDR communication system defines a set of data rates ranging from 38.4 kbps to 2.4 Mbps at which an access point AP may send data to a subscriber station access terminal AT . Because the AP is analogous to a base station the terminology with respect to cells and sectors is the same as with respect to voice systems.

A significant difference between voice services and data services is the fact that the former imposes stringent and fixed delay requirements. Typically the overall one way delay of speech frames must be less than 100 ms. In contrast the data delay can become a variable parameter used to optimize the efficiency of the data communication system. Specifically more efficient error correcting coding techniques which require significantly larger delays than those that can be tolerated by voice services can be utilized. An exemplary efficient coding scheme for data is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 933 462 entitled SOFT DECISION OUTPUT DECODER FOR DECODING CONVOLUTIONALLY ENCODED CODEWORDS issued Aug. 3 1999 assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

Another significant difference between voice services and data services is that the former requires a fixed and common grade of service GOS for all users. Typically for digital systems providing voice services this translates into a fixed and equal transmission rate for all users and a maximum tolerable value for the error rates of the speech frames. In contrast for data services the GOS can be different from user to user and can be a parameter optimized to increase the overall efficiency of the data communication system. The GOS of a data communication system is typically defined as the total delay incurred in the transfer of a pre determined amount of data hereinafter referred to as a data packet.

Yet another significant difference between voice services and data services is that the former requires a reliable communication link. When a mobile station communicating with a first base station moves to the edge of the associated cell or sector the mobile station initiates a simultaneous communication with a second base station. This simultaneous communication when the mobile station receives a signal carrying equivalent information from two base stations termed soft handoff is a process of establishing a communication link with the second base station while maintaining a communication link with the first base station. When the mobile station eventually leaves the cell or sector associated with the first base station and breaks the communication link with the first base station it continues the communication on the communication link established with the second base station. Because the soft handoff is a make before break mechanism the soft handoff minimizes the probability of dropped calls. The method and system for providing a communication with a mobile station through more than one base station during the soft handoff process are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 267 261 entitled MOBILE ASSISTED SOFT HANDOFF IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Softer hand off is the process whereby the communication occurs over multiple sectors that are serviced by the same base station. The process of softer handoff is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 933 787 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING HANDOFF BETWEEN SECTORS OF A COMMON BASE STATION issued Aug. 3 1999 assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Thus both soft and softer handoff for voice services result in redundant transmissions from two or more base stations to improve reliability.

This additional reliability is not required for data transmission because the data packets received in error can be retransmitted. For data services the parameters which measure the quality and effectiveness of a data communication system are the transmission delay required to transfer a data packet and the average throughput rate of the system. Transmission delay does not have the same impact in data communication as in voice communication but the transmission delay is an important metric for measuring the quality of the data communication system. The average throughput rate is a measure of the efficiency of the data transmission capability of the communication system. Consequently the transmit power and resources used to support soft handoff can be more efficiently used for transmission of additional data. To maximize the throughput the transmitting sector should be chosen in a way that maximizes the forward link throughput as perceived by the AT.

There is therefore a need in the art for a method and an apparatus for selecting a sector in a data communication system that maximizes the forward link throughput as perceived by the AT.

In one aspect of the invention the above stated needs are addressed by determining at the remote station a forward link quality metric for each sector in the remote station s list a quality related to a reverse link quality metric for each sector in the remote station s list and directing communication between the remote station and one sector from the sectors in the remote station s list in accordance with said determined forward link quality metrics and said determined qualities related to a reverse link quality metric. The quality metric of a forward link for each sector in the remote station s list is determined by measuring a signal to noise and interference ratio of the forward link. The quality related to a reverse link quality metric for each sector in the remote station s list is determined by ascertaining at the remote station a first signal value at a position in a first channel of the forward link for each sector in the remote station s list and processing at the remote station said ascertained first signal value for the each sector in the remote station s list. The communication between the remote station and one sector from the sectors in the remote station s list in accordance with said determined forward link quality metrics and said determined qualities related to a reverse link quality metric by assigning credits to each sector in the remote station s list except a current serving sector in accordance with said determined forward link quality metrics and said determined qualities related to a reverse link quality metric and directing communication between the remote station and one sector from the sectors in the remote station s list in accordance with said assigned credits.

In another aspect of the invention the above stated needs are addressed by determining at the remote station a forward link quality metric for each sector in the remote station s list a forward link de rating value for at least one sector in the remote station s list and directing communication between the remote station and one sector from the sectors in the remote station s list in accordance with said determined forward links quality metrics and said determined forward link de rating value. The quality metric of a forward link for each sector in the remote station s list is determined by measuring a signal to noise and interference ratio of the forward link. The forward link de rating value for at least one sector in the remote station s list is determined by ascertaining at the remote station a first signal value at a position in a first channel of the forward link for the at least one sector in the remote station s list processing at the remote station said ascertained first signal value for the at least one sector in the remote station s list and determining at the remote station the forward link de rating value in accordance with said processed first signal value for the at least one sector in the remote station s list. The communication between the remote station and one sector from the sectors in the remote station s list is directed by de rating said determined forward link quality metrics in accordance with said determined forward link de rating value assigning credits to each sector in the remote station s list except the sector currently serving the remote station in accordance with said de rated forward link quality metric and directing communication between the remote station and one sector from the sectors in the remote station s list in accordance with said assigned credits.

The word exemplary as used herein means serving as an example instance or illustration. Although a best mode embodiment is contained herein an embodiment described as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

The term packet as used herein means a group of bits including data payload and control elements arranged into a specific format. The control elements comprise e.g. a preamble a quality metric and others known to one skilled in the art. Quality metric comprises e.g. a cyclical redundancy check CRC a parity bit and others known to one skilled in the art.

The term access network as used herein means a collection of access points AP and one or more access point controllers. The access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals AT . The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate Intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks.

The term base station referred to herein as an AP in the case of an HDR communication system as used herein means the hardware with which subscriber stations communicate. Cell refers to the hardware or a geographic coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used. A sector is a partition of a cell. Because a sector has the attributes of a cell the teachings described in terms of cells are readily extended to sectors.

The term subscriber station referred to herein as an AT in the case of an HDR communication system as used herein means the hardware with which an access network communicates. An AT may be mobile or stationary. An AT may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An AT may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. An AT that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with an AP is said to be in a connection setup state. An AT that has established an active traffic channel connection with an AP is called an active AT and is said to be in a traffic state.

The term communication channel link as used herein means a single route over which a signal is transmitted described in terms of modulation characteristics and coding or a single route within the protocol layers of either the AP or the AT.

The term reverse channel link as used herein means a communication channel link through which the AT sends signals to the AP.

A forward channel link is as used herein to mean a communication channel link through which an AP sends signals to an AT.

The term soft handoff as used herein means a communication between a subscriber station and two or more sectors wherein each sector belongs to a different cell. In the context of IS 95 standard the reverse link communication is received by both sectors and the forward link communication is simultaneously carried on the two or more sectors forward links. In the context of the IS 856 standard data transmission on the forward link is non simultaneously carried out between one of the two or more sectors and the AT.

The term softer handoff as used herein means a communication between a subscriber station and two or more sectors wherein each sector belongs to the same cell. In the context of the IS 95 standard the reverse link communication is received by both sectors and the forward link communication is simultaneously carried on one of the two or more sectors forward links. In the context of the IS 856 standard data transmission on the forward link is non simultaneously carried out between one of the two or more sectors and the AT.

The term re pointing as used herein means a selection of a sector that is a member of an ATs active list wherein the sector is different than a currently selected sector.

The term serving sector as used herein means a sector that a particular AT selected for data communication or a sector that is communicating data to the particular AT.

The term soft softer handoff delay as used herein to indicate the minimum interruption in service that a subscriber station would experience following a handoff to another sector. Soft Softer handoff delay is determined based on whether the sector currently not serving the subscriber station non serving sector to which the subscriber station is re pointing is part of the same cell as the current serving sector. If the non serving sector is in the same cell as the serving sector then the softer handoff delay is used and if the non serving sector is in a cell different from the one that the serving sector is part of then the soft handoff delay is used.

The term non homogenous soft softer handoff delay as used herein to indicate that the soft softer handoff delays are sector specific and therefore may not uniform across the sectors of an Access Network.

The term credit as used herein means a dimensionless attribute indicating a reverse link quality metric a quality metric of a forward link or a composite quality metric of both forward and reverse links.

The term outage as used herein means a time interval during which the likelihood that a subscriber station will receive service is reduced.

The term fixed rate mode as used herein means that a particular sector transmits a Forward Traffic Channel to the AT at one particular rate.

Initially the AT and one of the AP s e.g. the AP establish a communication link using a pre determined access procedure. In this connected state the AT is able to receive data and control messages from the AP and is able to transmit data and control messages to the AP . The AT continually searches for other AP s that could be added to the AT active set. The active set comprises a list of the AP s capable of communication with the AT . When such an AP is found the AT calculates a quality metric of the AP s forward link which in accordance with one embodiment comprises a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR . In accordance with one embodiment the AT searches for other APs and determines the AP s SINR in accordance with a pilot signal. Simultaneously the AT calculates the forward link quality metric for each AP in the AT active set. If the forward link quality metric from a particular AP is above a pre determined add threshold or below a pre determined drop threshold for a pre determined period of time the AT reports this information to the AP . Subsequent messages from the AP direct the AT to add to or to delete from the AT active set the particular AP.

The AT selects a serving AP from the active set based on a set of parameters. The set of parameters can comprise present and previous SINR measurements a bit error rate and or a packet error rate and other parameters known to one skilled in the art. In accordance with one embodiment the serving AP is selected in accordance with the largest SINR measurement. The AT then transmits to the selected AP a data request message DRC message on the data request channel DRC channel . The DRC message can contain the requested data rate or alternatively an indication of the quality of the forward link e.g. the measured SINR the bit error rate or the packet error rate. In accordance with one embodiment the AT can direct the transmission of the DRC message to a specific AP by the use of a Walsh code which uniquely identifies the specific AP. The DRC message symbols are exclusively OR ed XOR with the unique Walsh code. The XOR operation is referred to as Walsh covering of a signal. Since each AP in the active set of the AT is identified by a unique Walsh code only the selected AP which performs the identical XOR operation as that performed by the AT with the correct Walsh code can correctly decode the DRC message.

The data to be transmitted to the AT arrive at the controller . In accordance with one embodiment the controller sends the data to all APs in the AT active set over the backhaul . In another embodiment the controller first determines which AP was selected by the AT as the serving AP and then sends the data to the serving AP. The data are stored in a queue at the AP s . A paging message is then sent by one or more APs to the AT on respective control channels. The AT demodulates and decodes the signals on one or more control channels to obtain the paging messages.

At each time slot the AP can schedule data transmission to any of the ATs that received the paging message. An exemplary method for scheduling transmission is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 795 entitled SYSTEM FOR ALLOCATING RESOURCES IN A COMMUNICATION SYSTEM assigned to the assignee of the present invention. The AP uses the rate control information received from each AT in the DRC message to efficiently transmit forward link data at the highest possible rate. In accordance with one embodiment the AP determines the data rate at which to transmit the data to the AT based on the most recent value of the DRC message received from the AT . Additionally the AP uniquely identifies a transmission to the AT by using a spreading code which is unique to that mobile station. In the exemplary embodiment this spreading code is the long pseudo noise PN code which is defined by the IS 856 standard.

The AT for which the data packet is intended receives the data transmission and decodes the data packet. In accordance with one embodiment each data packet is associated with an identifier e.g. a sequence number which is used by the AT to detect either missed or duplicate transmissions. In such an event the AT communicates via the reverse link data channel the sequence numbers of the missing data units. The controller which receives the data messages from the AT via the AP communicating with the AT then indicates to the AP what data units were not received by the AT . The AP then schedules a retransmission of such data units.

When the communication link between the AT and the AP operating in the variable rate mode deteriorates below required reliability level the AT first attempts to determine whether communication with another AP in the variable rate mode supporting an acceptable rate data is possible. If the AT ascertains such an AP e.g. the AP a re pointing to the AP therefore to a different communication link occurs and the data transmissions continue from the AP in the variable rate mode. The above mentioned deterioration of the communication link can be caused by e.g. the AT moving from a coverage area of the AP to the coverage area of the AP shadowing fading and other reasons known to one skilled in the art. Alternatively when a communication link between the AT and another AP e.g. the AP that may achieve higher throughput rate than the currently used communication link becomes available a re pointing to the AP therefore to a different communication link occurs and the data transmissions continue from the AP in the variable rate mode. If the AT fails to detect an AP that can operate in the variable rate mode and support an acceptable data rate the AT transitions into a fixed rate mode.

In accordance with one embodiment the AT evaluates the communications links with all candidate APs for both variable rate data and fixed rate data modes and selects the AP which yields the highest throughput.

The AT will switch from the fixed rate mode back to the variable rate mode if the sector is no longer a member of the AT active set.

In the exemplary embodiment the above described fixed rate mode and associated methods for transition to and from the fixed mode are similar to those disclosed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 205 129 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR VARIABLE AND FIXED FORWARD LINK RATE CONTROL IN A MOBILE RADIO COMMUNICATION SYSTEM assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Other fixed rate modes and associated methods for transition to and from the fixed mode can also be contemplated and are within the scope of the present invention.

One skilled in the art recognizes that an AP can comprise one or more sectors. In the description above the term AP was used generically to allow clear explanation of basic concepts of the HDR communication system. However one skilled in the art can extend the explained concepts to AP comprising any number of sectors. Consequently the concept of sector will be used throughout the rest of the document.

In accordance with one embodiment a re pointing decision is made by an AT in accordance with conditions of a forward link and a reverse link. As described above the AT determines a forward link quality metric directly e.g. by measuring the forward link SINR. Similarly a reverse link quality metric may comprise e.g. a reverse link SINR a bit error rate and or a packet error rate or a DRC erasure rate.

As discussed the AT identifies a serving sector of a particular sector and transmits a DRC message on a DRC channel on a reverse link. The reverse link carrying the DRC messages between the AT and the serving sector is subject to various factors that change characteristics of a communication channel through which the DRC messages travel. In wireless communication systems these factors comprise but are not limited to fading noise interference from other terminals and other factors known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The DRC message is protected against the changing characteristics of the communication channel by various methods e.g. message length selection encoding symbol repetition interleaving transmission power and other methods know to one of ordinary skill in the art. However these methods impose performance penalties e.g. increased overhead thus decreased throughput increased power consumption increased peak to average power increased power amplifier back off more expensive power amplifiers and other penalties known to one skilled in the art. Therefore an engineering compromise between a reliability of message delivery and an amount of overhead must be made. Consequently the conditions of the communication channel can degrade to the point at which the serving sector possibly cannot decode erases some of the DRC messages. Therefore the DRC erasure rate is directly related to the conditions affecting the reverse link and the DRC erasure rate is a good quality metric of the reverse link. A method and an apparatus utilizing the DRC erasure rate are disclosed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 757 520 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SELECTING A SERVING SECTOR IN A DATA COMMUNICATION SYSTEM issued Jun. 29 2004 and assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

However the AT can directly determine neither the reverse link SINR nor the DRC erasure rate. Both the reverse link SINR and the DRC erasure rate may be directly determined by the sectors in the AT active set. The sector s then supplies the AT with the determined values of the reverse link SINR or the DRC erasure rate via a feedback loop. Because the feedback loop from the sector s to the AT introduces a delay depending on an implementation of a communication system a performance of a re pointing using such a feedback for indication of a reverse link condition may suffer due to the delay. Therefore in accordance with one embodiment the AT uses indirect method of ascertaining the reverse link quality metric utilizing RPC commands.

The AT then uses the reverse link quality metric together with the forward link quality metric to make a re pointing decision. Consequently the AT must be able to generate the forward link quality metric and the reverse link quality metric.

In accordance with one embodiment an AT obtains a forward link quality metric for each sector in the AT s active set e.g. SINR by measuring the pilot signal associated with each of the sectors. In accordance with one embodiment described with reference to the pilot signal is sent in two bursts centered in each half slot and the measurement is carried out updated in every time slot. The AT computes the updated value of a SINR by processing the pilot signal. In accordance with one embodiment the processing comprises filtering by a filter with a pre determined time constant. In accordance with one embodiment the filter is realized in a digital domain. The value of the pre determined time constant is established in accordance with system simulation by experiment or other engineering methods known to one of ordinary skills in the art as an optimum in accordance with 

In accordance with one embodiment the pre determined time constant is 4 time slots. However different implementation and design criteria may yield different values of the time constant.

On the reverse link each transmitting AT acts as a source of interference to all other ATs in the communication system. To minimize interference on the reverse link and maximize capacity transmit power of each AT is controlled by three power control loops Open Loop Closed Loop and Outer Loop . In the exemplary embodiment the power control loops are similar to that of the CDMA system disclosed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 109 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING TRANSMISSION POWER IN A CDMA CELLULAR MOBILE TELEPHONE SYSTEM and in U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 866 entitled MULTI STATE POWER CONTROL MECHANISM FOR A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM issued Apr. 5 2005 both assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Other power control mechanism can also be contemplated and are within the scope of the present invention. In the present invention each sector receiving reverse link from particular ATs transmits RPC bits to each of such ATs on a power control channel of the sector s forward link. In the exemplary embodiment the power control channel is similar to that of the HDR system disclosed in detail in the IS 856 standard. Other power control channels can also be contemplated and are within the scope of the present invention. In the exemplary embodiment the power control channel comprises up to 64 orthogonal channels which are spread with 16 chip Walsh covers. Each power channel transmits one RPC bit at periodic intervals. Each active AT is assigned an RPC index which defines the Walsh cover and QPSK modulation phase e.g. in phase or quadrature for transmission of the RPC bit stream destined for that AT. Because the RPC bits correlate to a condition of the reverse link as determined by a sector the RPC bits are used by the AT to estimate the reverse link quality metric.

In every time slot a value of the RPC bit is determined at an AT for each sector in the AT s active set. The AT computes an updated value of an RPC estimate by processing the received RPC bits. In accordance with one embodiment the processing comprises filtering by a filter with a pre determined time constant. In accordance with one embodiment the filter is realized in a digital domain. The value of the pre determined time constant is established in accordance with system simulation by experiment or other engineering methods known to one of ordinary skills in the art as an optimum in accordance with 

In accordance with one embodiment pre determined time constant is 128 time slots. However different implementation and design criteria may yield different values of the time constant.

The processed filtered RPC estimate mean is used to estimate a DRC erasure rate. The relationship between the filtered RPC mean and the DRC erasure rate is very complex and depends on several variables e.g. type of channel Additive White Gaussian Noise AWGN Rayleigh Rician frequency selective fading doppler rate shadowing and other variables known to one of ordinary skills in the art. Therefore an engineering compromise between an actual relationship and an implementation approximation must be made. For example curve C in illustrates a typical relationship between a filtered RPC mean and a DRC erasure rate for a slow fading communication channel as determined by a measurement. Curves A A and A illustrate embodiments of approximation that have been determined to be a good compromise between the actual relationship and implementation approximation. In accordance with another embodiment illustrated in the relationship between filtered RPC mean and a DRC erasure rate is approximated by a step function A with a step at an RPC threshold T RPC. In accordance with one embodiment the T RPC is selected so that if the filtered RPC mean from a particular sector is greater than the T RPC the DRC erasure rate is at levels that prevent the AT from receiving satisfactory service on the forward link in terms of delays and throughput. One of ordinary skills in the art understands that satisfactory service is application dependent. Therefore service resulting in outages may be intolerable e.g. in real time applications although the outages may be tolerable in non real time applications e.g. ftp. In accordance with one embodiment the default RPC threshold T RPC equals to 0.95 as determined by simulation laboratory testing measurements and other means known to one skilled in the art.

One of ordinary skill in the art understands that the choice of approximation curves affects the relative contribution of the forward and the reverse link quality metric to the resulting composite metric and consequently the performance of the communication system.

As discussed an AT uses the reverse link quality metric together with the forward link quality metric to make a re pointing decision. In order to qualify a non serving sector for re pointing the non serving sector must accumulate sufficient credits. In accordance with one embodiment the credits are accumulated by the non serving sectors in accordance with the forward link filtered SINR mean the filtered RPC mean of the serving sector and the filtered RPC mean of the non serving sectors. The credits are accumulated in a Credit Accumulation phase. To unambiguously award credits the credits are initialized to a pre determined value in an Initialization phase preceding the Credit Accumulation phase. The re pointing decision in accordance with the accumulated credits is made in a Decision phase.

During the initialization phase the AT selects a current serving sector. In accordance with one embodiment the current serving sector is a sector with the best forward link quality metric i.e. the highest SINR. The AT further initializes credits for all non serving sectors to zero. In accordance with one embodiment the credits are subsequently initialized to zero if a re pointing from the current serving sector to a different sector occurred.

In step the AT selects a current serving sector. In accordance with one embodiment the current serving sector is a sector with the best forward link quality metric i.e. the highest SINR as the serving sector. The AT also sets a variable Hoff Flag to 1. This assures that the credits for all non serving sectors are initially set to zero. The method continues in step .

In step the variable Hoff Flag is compared to 1. If the variable Hoff Flag is equal to 1 the method continues with initialization in step otherwise the method continues in a Credit Accumulation Phase.

In step the variable Count is tested against an active set size. If the variable Count is less than or equal to the active set size the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in the Credit Accumulation Phase.

In step the inquiry is made whether the sector identified by the variable Count is the current serving sector as re pointed to in step . If the test is positive the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step credits for the non serving sectors C NS identified by the variable Count are set to a value of 0. The method continues in step .

In accordance with one embodiment credits of a non serving sector are incremented by a pre determined amount Credit UP if the filtered RPC mean of the non serving sector NS RPC is less than a pre determined threshold T RPC and the filtered RPC mean of the serving sector SS RPC is greater than the T RPC or if the NS RPC is less than the T RPC and the SS KPC is less than the T RPC and the filtered SINR mean of a non serving sector FL SINR NS is greater than the filtered SINR mean of a serving sector FL SINR SS modified by a pre determined value FL SINR Th .

The credits of a non serving sector are decremented by a pre determined amount Credit DN if the FL SINR NS is less than FL SINR SS modified by a pre determined value FL SINR Th or the NS RPC is greater than the T RPC.

Because a design criterion for a data communication system is to maximize throughput a hysteresis FL SINR Th is introduced into the credit accumulation process. The requirement that the de rated forward link SINR of the non serving sector is greater than a de rated forward link SINR of the current serving sector modified by the value of the hysteresis to obtain credits assures that a re pointing improves the forward link data rate. In accordance with one embodiment the value of FL SINR Th is selected to allow a re pointing to occur only if the re pointing increases the forward link data rate to at least the next highest data rate.

In step the variable Count is tested against the Active Set Size. If the variable count is less than the Active Set Size the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in a Decision phase.

In step an inquiry is made whether a sector designated by the variable count is the current serving sector. If the test is negative the method continues in steps and otherwise the method continues in step .

In step an inquiry is made whether a first condition is satisfied. If the first condition is satisfied the method continues in step . Otherwise the method continues in step .

In one embodiment the first condition tests whether the NS RPC is less than T RPC and the SS RPC is greater than the T RPC or if the NS RPC is less than the T RPC and the SS RPC is less than the T RPC and the FL SINR NS is greater than the FL SINR SS modified by the FL SINR Th.

In step an inquiry is made whether a second condition is satisfied. If the second condition is satisfied the method continues in step . Otherwise the method continues in step .

In one embodiment the second condition tests whether the FL SINRv S is less than FL SINR SS modified by the FL SINR Th or the NS RPC is greater than the T RPC.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the first condition and the second condition may be based on other comparisons between a sector s de rated forward link quality metric and a de rated forward link quality metric of the currently serving sector.

In step a value of the variable C NS identified by the variable count is incremented by a value of Credit UP. The method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable C NS identified by the variable count is decremented by a value of Credit DN. The method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable C NS identified by the variable Count is compared against a pre determined threshold NS Th identified by the variable Count. If the value of the variable C NS identified by the variable Count is greater than the NS Th identified by the variable Count the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable Cand identified by the variable Count is set to 1 and the value of the variable NS COUNT is incremented by 1. The method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable Cand identified by the variable Count is set to 0. The method continues in step .

In the decision phase the AT makes a re pointing decision. As discussed a design criterion for a data communication system is to maximize throughput consequently the AT decides to re point only if the candidate sector maximizes the forward link throughput. In accordance with one embodiment the decision to re point to a non serving sector is made if the non serving sector provides higher FL SINR and better quality reverse link as determined by the non serving sector s credits. To carry out the decision the AT first ascertains those non serving sectors that have credits greater than or equal to a pre determined threshold NS Th . In accordance with one embodiment the pre determined threshold is equal to the Soft Softer handoff delay. If at least one of the non serving sectors satisfies this condition the AT re points the DRC to the sector with the highest credits. In accordance with one embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality reverse link is selected. The quality of the reverse link is determined in accordance with the reverse link s filtered RPC mean. In another embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality forward link is selected.

If none of the non serving sectors has credits greater than or equal to the NS Th the AT continues pointing its DRC to the current serving sector.

In step the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable count that has the highest quality reverse link in accordance with the sector s reverse link s filtered RPC mean. Alternatively the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable count that has the highest quality forward link not shown . The method continues in step .

In step the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable Cand Count 1. The method continues in step .

In accordance with another embodiment the relationship between the filtered RPC mean and the DRC erasure rate is used to scale de rate the forward link SINR to reflect the condition of the reverse link. The de rated forward link SINR is then used to accumulate credits for a particular sector. To unambiguously award credits the credits are initialized to a pre determined value in an Initialization phase. The credits are accumulated in accordance with the forward link quality metric and the reverse quality metric in. a Credit Accumulation phase. The re pointing decision in accordance with the accumulated credits is made in a Decision phase.

One of ordinary skill in the art recognizes that it is not necessary to first determine the DRC erasure rate from a filtered RPC mean and then use a relationship between a DRC erasure rate and a de rating for the forward link SINR to determine the forward link SINR de rating. Instead the relationship between the filtered RPC mean and the DRC erasure rate and the relationship between a DRC erasure rate and a de rating for the forward link SINR can be used to provide a relationship between the filtered RPC mean and the de rating for the forward link SINR. Consequently curve C in illustrates a relationship between a filtered RPC mean and a forward link SINR de rating for a slow fading communication channel as determined by measurement simulation and other engineering methods. Curves AR AR and AR illustrate embodiments of approximation that have been determined to be a good compromise between the actual relationship and implementation approximation. In another embodiment illustrated in the relationship between the filtered RPC mean and the forward link SINR de rating is approximated by a step function with a step at T RPC.

One of ordinary skill in the art understands that the choice of approximation curves affects the relative contribution of the forward and the reverse link quality metric and consequently the performance of the communication system. For example as illustrated in the approximation depends on choice of the T RPC the amount of de rating below the T RPC FL D and the amount of de rating above the T RPC FL D .

During the initialization phase the AT selects a current serving sector. In accordance with one embodiment the current serving sector is a sector with the best forward link quality metric i.e. the highest SINR. The AT further initializes credits for all non serving sectors to zero. In accordance with one embodiment the credits are subsequently initialized to zero if a re pointing from the current serving sector to a different sector occurred. Because the initialization phase in accordance with this embodiment has identical objectives as the initialization phase of the above described embodiment the initialization phase in accordance with this embodiment is carried out according to and accompanying text.

As discussed in accordance with this embodiment the relationship between the filtered RPC mean and the DRC erasure rate is used to scale de rate the forward link SINR to reflect the condition of the reverse link. The de rated forward link SINR is then used to accumulate credits for a particular sector.

The credits are accumulated by the non serving sectors in accordance with the de rated forward link filtered SINR mean. In accordance with one embodiment the credits of a non serving sector C NS are incremented by a pre determined amount Credit UP if a de rated forward link SINR of the non serving sector FL D NS is greater than a de rated forward link SINR of the current serving sector FL D SS modified by a pre determined value FL SINR Th . The credits of a non serving sector are decremented by a pre determined amount Credit DN if the above condition is not satisfied.

Because a design criterion for a data communication system is to maximize throughput a hysteresis FL SINR Th is introduced into the credit accumulation process. The requirement that the de rated forward link SINR of the non serving sector is greater than a de rated forward link SINR of the current serving sector modified by the value of the hysteresis to obtain credits assures that a re pointing improves the forward link data rate. In accordance with one embodiment the value of FL SINR Th is selected to allow a re pointing to occur only if the re pointing increases the forward link data rate to at least the next highest data rate.

In step values of a filtered FL SINR mean and a filtered RPC mean RPC mean identified by the variable Count are updated. The method continues in step .

In step the updated value of the filtered RPC mean identified by the variable Count is mapped on a corresponding value of a de rating value of a forward link SINR FL D identified by the variable Count. The method continues in step .

In step a de rated filtered FL SINR mean FL SINR D is generated by de rating the updated filtered FL SINR mean identified by the variable Count by the de rating value FL D identified by the variable Count. The method continues in step .

In step the variable Count is tested against the Active Set Size. If the variable Count is less than the Active Set Size the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in a Decision phase.

In step an inquiry is made whether a sector designated by the variable Count is the current serving sector. If the test is positive the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step a value of the de rated forward link SINR mean of the non serving sector FL D NS identified by the variable Count is compared against the de rated forward link SINR mean for current serving sector FL D SS modified by the value of FL SINR Th. If the FL D NS identified by the variable Count is greater than the FL D SS modified by the value of FL SINR Th the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable C NS identified by the variable Count is incremented by a value of Credit UP. The method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable C NS identified by the variable Count is decremented by a value of Credit DN. The method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable C NS identified by the variable Count is compared against an NS Th identified by the variable Count. If the value of the variable C NS identified by the variable Count is greater than the NS Th identified by the variable Count the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable Cand identified by the variable Count is set to 1 and the value of the variable NS COUNT is incremented by 1. The method continues in step .

In step a value of the variable Cand identified by the variable Count is set to 0. The method continues in step .

In the decision phase the AT makes a re pointing decision. As discussed a design criterion for a data communication system is to maximize throughput consequently the AT decides to re point only if the candidate sector maximizes the forward link throughput. In accordance with one embodiment the decision to re point to a non serving sector is made if the non serving sector provides higher FL SINR and better quality reverse link as determined by the non serving sector s credits. To carry out the decision the AT first ascertains those non serving sectors that have credits greater than or equal to a pre determined threshold NS Th which is the soft softer handoff delay. In accordance with one embodiment the pre determined threshold is equal to a fraction of the Soft Softer handoff delay. If at least one of the non serving sectors satisfies this condition the AT re points the DRC to the sector with the highest credits. In accordance with one embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality reverse link is selected. The quality of the reverse link is determined in accordance with the reverse link s filtered RPC mean. In another embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality forward link is selected.

If none of the non serving sectors has credits greater than or equal to a pre determined threshold NS Th the AT continues pointing its DRC to the current serving sector.

To prevent re pointing from occurring too rapidly a minimum time interval must elapse from the last re pointing. The minimum time interval is determined in accordance with a communication system implementation. In accordance with one embodiment the minimum time interval has a value equal to the soft softer handoff delay. However to prevent loss of communication in case of sudden change in the communication link condition if the filtered RPC mean associated with a current serving sector SS RPC exceeds the RPC threshold T RPC and at least one non serving sector has accumulated credits greater than a pre determined threshold Hoff Th a re pointing earlier than the minimum time interval is allowed. Because the Hoff Th determines whether a re pointing will be allowed when the communication with the serving sector deteriorated the choice of the Hoff Th is deployment dependent. In one embodiment the Hoff Th is set to zero. The AT re points the DRC to the sector with the highest credits greater than the Hoff Th. In accordance with one embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality reverse link is selected. The quality of the reverse link is determined in accordance with the reverse link s filtered RPC mean. In another embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality forward link is selected.

In step the value of the variable SS RPC is compared against the T RPC. If the value of the variable SS RPC is less than the value of the T RPC the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the value of the variable NS Count is ascertained. If the value of the variable NS Count is greater than 1 the method continues in step . If the value of the variable NS Count is equal to 1 the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable count that has the highest quality reverse link in accordance with the sector s reverse link s filtered RPC mean. Alternatively the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable count that has the highest quality forward link not shown . The method continues in step .

In step the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable Cand Count 1. The method continues in step .

In step the test is made if any of the non serving sectors has credits exceeding the Hoff Th. If no non serving sector has credits exceeding the Hoff Th the method continues in step . If one non serving sector has credits exceeding the Hoff Th the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector with the highest quality reverse link in accordance with the sector s reverse link s filtered RPC mean. Alternatively the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector that has the highest quality forward link not shown . The method continues in step .

In accordance with the re pointing method as described an AT selects a different sector when a non serving sector in the AT s active set accumulates sufficient credits. Because the credit accumulation is affected by a filtered RPC mean when a step function approximation of the relationship between the filtered RPC mean and a DRC erasure rate is used rapid filtered RPC mean fluctuation around the RPC threshold changes a level of forward link SINR de rating. Because the filtered RPC mean is re evaluated each slot the AT may potentially re point faster than the minimum time interval between re pointings as indicated by soft softer handoff delay causing outages and service interruption. Therefore in order to minimize the outages and the service interruptions a hysteresis is introduced into the decision process by means of a second RPC threshold as illustrated in . The second RPC threshold T RPC S is determined by simulation measurement or other means known to one skilled in the art. illustrates a relationship between filtered RPC mean and a DRC erasure rate in accordance with one embodiment of the method where the T RPC equals 0.95 and the T RPC S threshold equal to 0.90.

Although the reverse link hysteresis was described with respect to the step function approximation of the relationship between the filtered RPC mean and a DRC erasure rate one of ordinary skills in the art recognizes that such a measure can be taken for other approximations.

As discussed in accordance with one embodiment of the communication system of data transmission on the forward link occurs from one sector to one AT during a time slot at or near the maximum data rate that can be supported by the forward link and the communication system. At each time time slot the sector can schedule data transmission to any of the ATs that received the paging message. The sector uses the rate control information received from each AT in the DRC message to efficiently transmit forward link data at the highest possible rate. Consequently the scheduling algorithm serves the AT from which the sector received a valid DRC if the DRC from a particular AT has been erased. The scheduling thus prevents degradation in forward link sector throughput as long as the DRC erasure rate from ATs served by the sector is below a threshold T DRC . In one embodiment the threshold has been determined based on simulations lab tests field trials and other means known to one skilled in the art to be 0.4. This knowledge is not exploited in the re pointing method based on RPC which can lead to a sub optimal communication system performance as explained with reference to which illustrates a relation between a filtered RPC mean and a DRC erasure rate for a slow fading communication channel curve marked C . Referring to 

In a region marked B the filtered RPC mean is greater than T RPC consequently under the re pointing method based on RPC a re pointing is triggered although the DRC Erasure Rate less than a threshold T DRC is acceptable.

In a region marked C the filtered RPC mean is less than T RPC consequently under the re pointing method based on RPC a re pointing is not triggered although the DRC Erasure Rate greater than the threshold T DRC degrades the forward link throughput.

The above mentioned issues pertaining to the regions B and C can be addressed by various methods. In accordance with one embodiment a re pointing method utilizing a DRC lock indicator described in the above mentioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 757 520 does not use the filtered RPC means to determine when the AT is to re point consequently the issues pertaining to the regions B and C are eliminated. However the AT may potentially re point to a sector which is also in region C. Therefore in accordance with one embodiment a re pointing method utilizing a DRC lock indicator in combination with a filtered RPC is used.

As discussed the AT can directly determine neither the reverse link SINR nor the DRC erasure rate. Both the reverse link SINR and the DRC erasure rate may be directly determined by the sectors in the AT active set. The sector s then supplies the AT with the determined values of the reverse link SINR or the DRC erasure rate via a feedback loop. In order for a sector to transmit accurate information regarding the reverse link SINR or DRC erasure rate the sector must use some forward link capacity. In order to minimize the impact on forward link capacity the reverse link SINR or the DRC erasure rate is sent with very low granularity. In accordance with one embodiment the granularity is one bit. Furthermore a consideration of a feedback loop speed versus a performance of the Reverse Link Traffic Channel performance must be made.

Therefore in a Message Based DRC Lock embodiment each sector in the AT active set monitors the DRC channel and evaluates an erasure rate of the DRC messages. Each sector then sets a DRC Lock Bit for the AT in accordance with the evaluated erasure rate. In accordance with one embodiment the DRC Lock Bit set to one value e.g. one in lock indicates that the DRC erasure rate is acceptable the DRC Lock Bit set to a second value e.g. zero out of lock indicates that the DRC erasure rate is unacceptable. The serving sector then sends the DRC Lock Bit to the AT in a message on a control channel. The control channel for a communication system in accordance with the IS 856 standard is transmitted periodically every 426 ms.

In accordance with one embodiment the decision whether to re point is made in accordance with the DRC Lock Bit. The decision to which of the non serving sectors to re point is made in accordance with the above described RPC method. The non serving sectors are assigned to different groups Group and Group in accordance to their filtered RPC mean and T RPC T RPC. The AT first ascertains those non serving sectors that belong to Group . If at least one of the non serving belong to Group the AT re points the DRC to the sector from this group with the highest credits. If none of the non serving sectors belong to Group the AT ascertains those non serving sectors that belong to Group . If at least one of the non serving belong to Group the AT re points the DRC to the sector from this group with the highest credits. In accordance with one embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality reverse link is selected. If none of the non serving sectors belongs to either group the AT continues pointing its DRC to the current serving sector. One skilled in the art recognizes that the assignment to different groups has been described as a concept for pedagogical purposes. In an implementation in accordance with one embodiment the assignment occurs as the filtered RPC mean of each sector is evaluated. The combined Message Based DRC Lock and filtered RPC method is described in details below.

The processing method at the sector in accordance with one embodiment comprises three phases. In the first phase mapping a DRC Erasure and or a valid DRC to a binary form generates a DRC Erasure Bit. In the second phase processing the DRC Erasure Bits generates a DRC erasure rate. In the third phase sampling the processed DRC erasure rate every control channel period generates a DRC Lock Bit.

The above described phases one and two are repeated every time slot by every sector in the AT active set and is illustrated in . The method starts in step . The method continues in step .

In step the updated DRC is tested. If the DRC was erased the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the DRC Erasure Bit is processed to generate a DRC erasure rate. In accordance with one embodiment the processing comprises filtering by a filter with a pre determined time constant. In accordance with one embodiment the filter is realized in a digital domain. The value of the pre determined time constant is established in accordance with system simulation by experiment or other engineering methods known to one of ordinary skills in the art as an optimum in accordance with 

In step the system time is tested to establish the beginning of a control channel capsule. If the test is positive the method continues in step otherwise the method returns to step .

Steps through introduce hysteresis rules for generating the DRC Lock Bit. The hysteresis is introduced to avoid rapid re pointing when the channel SINR varies rapidly. The hysteresis rules are as follows 

If the DRC Lock Bit is currently set to one then the filtered DRC erasure rate must exceed first DRC erasure threshold DRC Erasure Th for the DRC Lock Bit to be set to zero and

If the DRC Lock Bit is currently set to zero then the Filtered DRC Erasure rate has to be below a second pre determined DRC erasure threshold DRC Erasure Th for the DRC Lock to be set to one.

In accordance with one embodiment the values DRC Erasure Th and DRC Erasure Th are pre determined in accordance with the communication system simulation by experiment or other engineering methods known to one of ordinary skills in the art. In another embodiment the values DRC Erasure Th and DRC Erasure Th are changed in accordance with the change of the conditions of the communication link. In either embodiment the values of DRC Erasure Th and DRC Erasure Th are selected to optimize the following requirements to 

In step the current DRC Lock Bit value is compared to 1. If the DRC Lock Bit value equals 1 the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the DRC erasure rate is compared to the DRC Erasure Th. If the DRC erasure rate is less than the DRC Erasure Th the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the DRC erasure rate is compared to the DRC Erasure Th. If the DRC erasure rate is less than the DRC Erasure Th the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the DRC Lock Bit is set at the appropriate position of the control channel message. The method returns to step .

At the AT the DRC Lock Bit is recovered from the forward link of the serving sector. A re pointing decision is made in accordance with the value of the DRC Lock Bit. If the DRC Lock Bit is in lock the reverse link from the AT to the serving sector is of sufficient quality consequently no re pointing is mandated. If the DRC Lock Bit is out of lock the reverse link from the AT to the sector is of insufficient quality and a re pointing may be required. In accordance with one embodiment the decision to re point to a non serving sector is made if a non serving sector provides higher throughput in accordance with the non serving sector s FL SINR and reverse link quality metric as determined by the non serving sector s credits. In accordance with one embodiment the relationship between the filtered RPC mean and the DRC erasure rate is used to scale de rate the forward link SINR to reflect the condition of the reverse link. The de rated forward link SINR is then used to accumulate the credits for the non serving sector. Consequently the Initialization phase in accordance with this embodiment is carried out according to and accompanying text.

Similarly the Credit Accumulation phase is carried out according to and accompanying text with the following modification. In step the filtered RPC mean RPC mean identified by the variable Count is updated. As described the filtered RPC mean is obtained by filtering received RPC bits by a filter with a pre determined time constant. Referring to if the filtered RPC mean fluctuates around the T RPC the sector classification between B C and B C changes rapidly which increases likelihood that a sector which belongs to B C is classified as B C and vice versa. Because the forward link throughput is negatively affected by incorrect classification in accordance with one embodiment the transition between the between B C and B C is controlled. This can be accomplished for example by generating the filtered RPC mean using different time constants for sectors in B C and B C. Consequently in accordance with another embodiment the time constant for sectors in B C is smaller than the time constant for sectors in B C which results in a contraction of regions B and C without delaying transition from Group to .

To carry out the decision to re point the AT first ascertains those non serving sectors that have credits greater than or equal to a pre determined threshold NS Th . In accordance with one embodiment the pre determined threshold is equal to a fraction of the Soft Softer handoff delay. If at least one of the non serving sectors satisfies this condition the AT re points the DRC to the sector with the highest credits. In accordance with one embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality reverse link is selected. The quality of the reverse link is determined in accordance with the reverse link s filtered RPC mean. In another embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal credits a sector with the highest quality forward link is selected.

If none of the non serving sectors has credits greater than or equal to a pre determined threshold NS Th in accordance with one embodiment the AT continues pointing its DRC to the current serving sector. In accordance with another embodiment the AT further determines whether at least one non serving sector has accumulated credits greater than a pre determined threshold Hoff Th . In accordance with one embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal accumulated credits greater than the Hoff Th a sector with the highest quality reverse link is selected. The quality of the reverse link is determined in accordance with the reverse link s filtered RPC mean. In another embodiment if two or more non serving sectors have equal accumulated credits greater than the Hoff Th a sector with the highest quality forward link is selected. If none of the non serving sectors has credits greater than or equal to the Hoff Th the AT continues pointing its DRC to the current serving sector.

In step the received DRC Lock Bit from the current serving sector is tested. If the DRC Lock Bit of the current serving sector is out of lock the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the value of the variable NS Count is ascertained. If the value of the variable NS Count is greater than 1 the method continues in step . If the value of the variable NS Count is equal to 1 the method continues in step otherwise the method continues in step .

In step the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable Count that has the highest quality reverse link in accordance with the sector s reverse link s filtered RPC mean. Alternatively the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable Count that has the highest quality forward link not shown . The method continues in step .

In step the AT re points the DRC to the candidate sector identified by the variable Cand Count 1. The method continues in step .

In a wireless communication system an imbalance may occur between a forward link and a reverse link. Imbalance occurs when a forward link quality metric from a first sector is greater than the forward link quality metric from a second sector and a reverse link quality metric from a first sector is less than a reverse link quality metric from a second sector. It has been observed that low levels of imbalance e.g. less than 1 dB are almost always present in a communication system of . This level of imbalance appears to have little impact on either the forward link requested served rate or on the DRC Erasure rate on the reverse link. Consequently such an imbalance is accepted because the cost e.g. outage associated with re pointing DRC s in a dynamic communication system environment changing channel conditions AT mobility etc far exceeds the small penalty in forward link sector throughput that may result.

As the imbalance increases the sector with the better forward link quality metric has a higher DRC erasure rate. Consequently the advantage of an AT pointing it s DRC to a sector with a better forward link quality metric is reduced because the DRC erasure rate to the sector with the better forward link quality metric may be so large as to reduce the forward link throughput significantly. In an extreme case if the DRC Erasure Rate is 100 regardless of the forward link quality metric the AT will not be served. On the other hand re pointing the AT s DRC to a sector with a better reverse link quality metric may not improve the forward link throughput because the sector s forward link quality metric is reduced.

Because the actual forward link throughput that an AT achieves is a function of the data queues to the AT and forward link scheduling method the forward link throughput cannot be known apriori. Therefore the re pointing method attempts to select the best sector assuming that the data queues are full and that the scheduling method would select the AT for service. The re pointing method further considers that from an AT standpoint imbalance is an issue only if it degrades the AT throughput by one rate on the forward link. For example consider a static channel with the following conditions 

Sector forward link quality metric FL SINR is 3 dB higher than sector forward link quality metric FL SINR therefore the forward link of sector can support 614 kB rate and the forward link of sector can support 307 kB rate.

Reverse link quality metric as measured by the Reverse Link Pilot channel SINR Ecp Nt from sector RL Ecp Nt is 3 dB lower than reverse link quality metric from sector RL Ecp Nt therefore a filtered RPC mean of RL 0.9 a filtered RPC mean of RL is 0.1616. The corresponding DRC Erasure Rate of RL is 0.8 DRC Erasure Rate of RL is 0.1.

If the AT points DRC to sector it receives a higher throughput if the AT is served but the likelihood of it being served is less than or equal to 20 Erasure Rate of RL is 0.8 . If the AT points DRC to sector it receives a lower throughput if the AT is served but the likelihood of it being served is less than or equal to 90 Erasure Rate of RL is 0.1 . Consequently the throughput from sector is 614 kB 0.2 122.8 kB and the throughput from sector is 307 k 0.9 276.3 k. Clearly the AT gains from pointing its DRC to sector .

Let us assume that in a communication system of the forward link quality metric is greater than the quality metric of the forward link and the quality metric of the reverse link is less than the quality metric of the reverse link causing a severe imbalance as described above. As has been discussed the AT utilizes a pre determined add threshold and a pre determined drop threshold for managing the AT s active set. In accordance with one embodiment if the SINR of the forward link stays below the pre determined drop threshold for a period equal to or greater than a pre determined time period the AT requests that the sector at AP be removed from the AT active set. Because the SINR of the reverse link is small a sector at the AP requests the AT via RPC commands to increase the AT transmit power. Consequently the AT transmits more power than average which has an adverse impact on reverse link capacity. Furthermore because the sector at AP was removed from the AT active set the above described re pointing method cannot be used.

Therefore in one embodiment the set management method is implemented at the sectors. When the AT determines that a pilot signal for a sector e.g. the sector at AP should be removed from the AT active set the AT sends one request via a Route Update message to the AP to remove the sector from the AT active set. A change of the active set of the AT in response to the Route Update message are at the discretion of the AP. In order to alleviate the severe imbalance the AP s set management method may determine that a reverse link associated with the forward link of the sector at AP has a sufficient quality metric and deny the request. The AP s set management method retains the information of the AT request. Thus if the associated reverse link SINR deteriorates the AP s set management method may delete the particular pilot signal from the active set at a later instant even prior to another Route Update message from the AT where the another Route Update message is sent on detecting other potential changes to the active set at the AT.

In other embodiment the set management can be used to affect a grade of service. For example the AP may decide to exclude users whose service is below a certain grade by adjusting the existing setting of the drop threshold. The drop threshold is adjusted in accordance with the minimal forward link SINR threshold at which a desired data rate can be decoded. In accordance with one embodiment for decoding of the lowest data rate equal to 38.4 kbps the minimal forward link SINR threshold equals 11.5 dB. Therefore it is beneficial to continue tracking the forward link at SINR around 12 dB accordingly the modified the pre determined drop threshold equals 12 dB.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the effects of the link imbalance and the method of adjusting of the pre determined drop threshold has been described with respect to a communication system of for pedagogical purposes only. The effects of link imbalance affect every communication system utilizing a soft handoff and can be alleviated by the method disclosed as long as the management of sectors equivalent to management of active set is employed by the communication system. Consequently such communication system includes but is not limited to systems in accordance with the IS 95 standards the W CDMA standard and the IS 2000 standard.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that although the various embodiments were described in terms of flowcharts and methods such was done for pedagogical purposes only. The methods can be performed by an apparatus which in one embodiment comprises a processor interfaced with a transmitter a receiver and any other appropriate blocks of the AT and or AP.

Those of ordinary skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

