---

title: Solid construct mitral spacer
abstract: A heart valve implant according to one embodiment may include a shaft extending generally along a longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant having at least one anchor configured to be coupled to a first end of the shaft. A spacer may include a plurality of individual segments each including at least one passageway configured to be disposed about the shaft. The plurality of individual segments may define an outer surface of the spacer which is configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. The plurality of individual segments may each having a length and at least one cross-section dimension no larger than an internal cross-section of a lumen of a delivery catheter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08480730&OS=08480730&RS=08480730
owner: Cardiosolutions, Inc.
number: 08480730
owner_city: Stoughton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070514
---
The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

A human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement is carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and is carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

Referring to a perspective view of one embodiment of a mitral valve implant is depicted. As shown mitral valve implant may generally include a spacer or valve body portion which may be coupled to a shaft . The shaft may be coupled to at least one anchor portion configured to couple attach and or otherwise secure the mitral valve implant to native coronary tissue. In general at least a portion of the spacer may be configured to be disposed proximate a mitral valve such that the mitral valve implant may interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation as illustrated in .

The spacer of the mitral valve implant shown in may include a plurality of individual segment . As will be explained in greater detail hereinbelow the plurality of segments may be configured to be delivered and assembled proximate an implant site of the mitral valve implant to form a spacer having an overall size and shape configured to accommodate at least in part a patient s anatomy etiology of valve regurgitation and or the limitations of the implant delivery system. Each of the plurality of segments may be configured to have a size and shape such that at least one dimension of the segment is no larger than at least one internal dimension of the implant delivery system used to deliver the mitral valve implant to the implant site. As such a mitral valve implant may be constructed having a spacer with at least one cross sectional dimension that is larger than the internal cross sectional dimensions of the implant delivery system used to deliver the mitral valve implant .

According to one aspect the mitral valve implant and the spacer is shown in an unassembled partially assembled state in . The plurality of segments may be slidably coupled over at least a portion of the shaft . For example the plurality of segments may each include at least one passageway configured to accept at least a portion of the shaft . As illustrated one or more of the passageways may define a generally cylindrical opening or passageway having an internal dimension e.g. an internal radius substantially corresponding to the outer radius of a generally cylindrical shaft . The internal dimension of the passageway may sufficiently greater than the outer radius of the shaft such that the plurality of segments may move along a non linear shaft . In other words the internal radius of the passageway may be large enough such that the plurality of segments may move along the longitudinal length of a non linear or curved shaft . The passageways may be configured to generally extend completely around the circumference of the shaft and or may be configured to generally extend only around a portion of the circumference of the shaft .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the passageways and or the shaft may have a shape other than a cylinder. For example the passageways and or the shaft may have a non circular cross section such as but not limited to an oval or elliptical cross section or the like. For example the passageways and or the shaft may form a lock and key type arrangement configured to prevent the segments from rotating about radial direction of the shaft .

Referring to a cross section of segment of is shown. The body of segment may include an outer surface which may define at least a portion of the outer surface of the spacer when assembled and at least one cross sectional surface . According to one aspect the body may have a generally circular sector or pie piece cross section. The passageway may be formed as a separate component from the body and may be coupled attached molded bonded or otherwise secured to the body of the segment . The passageway may also be formed as an integral unitary and or single component with the body . According to one aspect the passageway may be disposed proximate a centerline of the spacer . For example the passageway may be disposed proximate an intersection between the first and the second cross sectional surfaces . The passageway may also be disposed within an internal region of the body as shown in .

As mentioned above the plurality of segments may be constructed to form a spacer having an outer surface configured to at least in part accommodate a patient s anatomy etiology of valve regurgitation and the limitations of the implant delivery system. A cross sectional view of the assembled spacer in is illustrated in . According to one aspect the passageways of each of the plurality of segments may be aligned serially along the longitudinal axis of the spacer . For example each of the passageways may be spaced along the longitudinal axis of each of the plurality of segments . According to this aspect the passageways do not overlap each other when the plurality of segments are assembled as shown in . The passageways may be evenly spaced along the longitudinal axis of the plurality of segments such that each passageway substantially abuts against at least one adjacent passageway . Such an arrangement aids in the construction of the spacer since the plurality of segments may only fit together in a single configuration. The passageways may also be unevenly spaced along the plurality of segments and or may at least partially overlap each other. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a variety of geometries and configurations exist depending on the desired overall size and shape of the spacer as well as the dimensional limitations of the implant delivery system.

According to one aspect at least a portion of the body of one or more of the plurality of segments may be expandable retractable collapsible and or reducible in volume to facilitate percutaneous and or transluminal delivery of the mitral valve implant . In such a manner one or more of the segments of the mitral valve implant may include a collapsible member which may be reduced in volume and or reduced in maximum cross section during delivery to the heart and or during placement and or attachment of the anchor to native coronary tissue. After delivery to the heart the segments may be expanded inflated and or otherwise increased in volume or size. Accordingly the mitral valve implant may be delivered to an implantation site via a smaller diameter catheter and or via smaller vessels than would otherwise be required.

The deformable segments may be collapsed to a reduced size which may for example facilitate loading the mitral valve implant into a catheter delivery system. Such a catheter delivery system may be suitable for transluminal delivery of a mitral valve implant including the segments to the heart as will be explained further below. In addition to being collapsed the segments may be deformed to facilitate loading into a catheter delivery system. For example the segments may be collapsed and may be rolled and or folded to a generally cylindrical shape allowing the segments to be loaded in a catheter having a circular lumen.

A collapsed and or rolled or folded segments may be inflated restoring the segments to expanded configuration. For example a collapsed and or rolled or folded segments may be inflated and restored to an expanded configuration once the mitral valve implant has been delivered to the heart and deployed from a catheter delivery system. Inflating the segments may be carried out by introducing a fluid such as saline into the at least one cavity of the segments . In addition to a liquid such as saline the segments may be inflated with a setting or curable fluid. The setting or curable fluid may set and or be cured to a solid and or semi solid state within the cavity of the segments . An example of such a material may be a thermoset polymer resin a gel material such as silicone gel etc.

At least a portion of the segments may also be constructed from a shape memory material. For example at least a portion of the segments may include a shape memory alloy such as but not limited to copper zinc aluminum copper aluminum nickel and nickel titanium NiTi alloys. The shape memory alloy may include either one way or two way shape memory and may be introduced in to the delivery catheter lumen having a shape which does not exceed the interior dimensions of the delivery catheter lumen. For example the segments may have a generally elongated or generally helical shape. Upon delivery to proximate the mitral valve the shape memory segments may be heated to cause the segments to deform into the desired shape for installation.

Alternatively or in addition one or more of the plurality of segments may have generally solid geometry. As used herein the phrases generally solid geometry substantially solid geometry or the like are intended to mean a geometry having an outer surface that defines a substantially fixed or constant volume. That is a volume of the segments does not substantially change before and after implantation of the mitral valve implant . A generally solid geometry may include without limitation a solid semi solid or porous e.g. micro or nano scale pores material. The use a plurality of segments having a generally solid geometry may reduce the complexity and or cost associated with the fabrication and or implantation of the mitral valve implant while still allowing a mitral valve implant with a spacer that is at least as large as or optionally larger than the implant delivery system used to deliver the mitral valve implant .

At least a portion of the plurality of segments may be constructed from a synthetic and or biological material depending on the application and the patient condition. The segments may include a plurality of layers. For example the segments may include an open or closed cell foam substrate for example but not limited to Invalon polyvinyl and an outer layer of a material that is biologically acceptable. The outer layer may also include a material that is soft and or deformable either permanently or resiliently deformable that may reduce and or eliminate further scarring and or damage to the leaflets of the mitral valve . According to one aspect the substrate of the segments may be coated with a silicone urethane composite such as but not limited to Elasteon or the like.

The plurality of segments when assembled may form a spacer having an outer surface that may be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve e.g. the leaflets to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation as illustrated in . According to one aspect the mitral valve implant and in particular the spacer may be selected from a range or set of sizes and shapes. For example a standard set may be utilized where a set of consensus sizes and shapes mitral valve implants are pre manufactured and provided to health care providers as a kit. This particular aspect has the advantage of being the most uniform and therefore the least expensive for the patient. Alternatively a custom design may be fabricated where the exact size and shape is determined only after precise and or detailed measurements of the dimensions of a patient s mitral valve are obtained. As a result the overall size and or shape of the mitral valve implant may be tapered or shaped if necessary.

In practice the plurality of segments may be aligned serially along at least a portion of the shaft i.e. one segment after another segment and inserted into the implant delivery system a portion of which is generally depicted in . The implant delivery system may include a catheter having a generally circular inner passageway . Those skilled in the art will recognize that the catheter may include any catheter known to those skilled in art. While only a single passageway is shown for clarity the catheter may include a plurality of passageways . According to one aspect the plurality of segments may be rotated about the shaft such that each of the plurality of segments is aligned in a substantially similar or substantially the same orientation with respect to each other. As such overall cross sectional dimensions of the mitral valve implant may be minimized. Additionally the mitral valve implant may be inserted into a catheter having a reduced diameter.

Once loaded into the delivery catheter system the mitral valve implant may be moved or delivered proximate the implant site using any device know to those skilled in the art. While moving the mitral valve implant through the delivery catheter system the plurality of segments may be individually rotated about the shaft to facilitate movement of the plurality of segments . This may be particularly useful to facilitate navigating the plurality of segments about curves bends or the like . The shaft may include a generally rigid shaft and or a generally flexible shaft.

According to another aspect shaft and the plurality of segments may be separately loaded into the catheter delivery system and delivered to the implant site. According to this aspect the shaft which may optionally include the anchor portion may be first loaded into the catheter delivery system and the plurality of segments may be subsequently serially loaded into the catheter delivery system . Of course the order of loading and or delivering the shaft and or plurality of segments to the implant site may be changed.

Once the shaft and the plurality of segments are proximate the implant site the plurality of segments may be disposed or arranged about the shaft to construct a spacer having a desired size and shape. While the spacer is illustrated having a generally cylindrical outer surface the size and shape of the spacer and each of the plurality of segments may be varied by design and by quantity to accommodate the patient anatomy etiology and limitations of the delivery system e.g. the internal dimensions of the catheter lumen .

According to an embodiment the spacer may be slidably coupled to the shaft . The spacer may include an opening which may be defined by one or more of the passageways extending from a first end of the spacer through the spacer and to a second end . In one such embodiment the opening may extend generally axially through the spacer and may be sized to slidably receive at least a portion of the shaft therethrough. The shaft may include one or more stops . The stops may be sized and or shaped to control and or restrict translation of the spacer along the shaft beyond the respective stops . In this manner in the illustrated embodiment translation of the spacer along the shaft may be restricted to the expanse of the shaft between the stops .

One or more of the stops may be integrally formed with the shaft . Furthermore one or more of the stops such as but not limited to stop may be provided as a separate member coupled to and or formed on the shaft . In an embodiment in which one or more of the stops are integrally formed with the shaft the spacer may be slidably coupled to the shaft by pressing the spacer over at least one of the stops which may at least partially elastically deform the opening to permit passage of at least one of the stops . Once the one or more of the stops have been pressed through the opening the opening may at least partially elastically recover thereby resisting passage of the one or more stops back through the opening . Various other arrangements may be employed for providing stops on the shaft and or for controlling and or limiting translation of the spacer along the shaft .

The anchor portion may include a helical member coupled to the shaft . As shown the helical member may be loosely wound such that adjacent turns of the helical member do not contact one another for example resembling a corkscrew type configuration. The anchor portion may be engaged with tissue by rotating the anchor portion about the axis of the helical member thereby advancing the anchor portion into tissue. Consistent with such an embodiment the anchor portion may resist pulling out from the tissue. The anchor portion may be provided as an extension of the shaft wound in a helical configuration. Consistent with related embodiments the anchor portion may be formed as a separate feature and may be coupled to the shaft e.g. using mechanical fasteners welding adhesive etc.

According to various alternative embodiments the anchor portion may include various configurations capable of being coupled to and or otherwise attached to native coronary tissue. For example the anchor portion may include one or more prongs adapted to pierce coronary tissue and to alone or in conjunction with other features resist removal of the anchor portion from tissue. For example the anchor portion may include a plurality of prongs which may engage native coronary tissue. According to various other embodiments the anchor portion may include features that may facilitate attachment by suturing. Exemplary features to facilitate suturing may include rings or openings suture penetrable tabs etc. Various other anchor portions that may allow attachment or coupling to native coronary tissue may also suitably be employed in connection with the present disclosure.

Turning to the mitral valve implant is shown implanted within a heart . The mitral valve implant may be disposed at least partially within the left ventricle of the heart . As shown the anchor portion may be engaged with native coronary tissue within and or adjacent to the left ventricle . The shaft coupled to the anchor portion may extend into the left ventricle . The shaft may further extend at least partially within the mitral valve i.e. the shaft may extend at least partially between the cusps or leaflets of the mitral valve and may also extend at least partially into the left atrium . The spacer of the mitral valve implant may be positioned at least partially within the left ventricle with the bottom portion within the left ventricle and with the upper portion positioned at least partially within and or pointed towards the left atrium .

Sliding translation of the spacer along the shaft may at least partially withdraw the spacer from the mitral valve to an open position as shown. When the spacer is at least partially withdrawn from the mitral valve a passage may be opened between the spacer and the mitral valve allowing blood to flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Translation of the spacer away from the mitral valve may be controlled and or limited by the stop . In the open position the stop may maintain the spacer in general proximity to the mitral valve while still permitting sufficient clearance between the mitral valve and the spacer to permit adequate blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Additionally the flow of blood from left atrium to the left ventricle may cause the mitral valve to flare and or expand outwardly away from the mitral valve implant permitting blood flow between the implant and the cusps of the mitral valve .

As the left ventricle contracts the pressure of blood in the left ventricle may increase such that the blood pressure in the left ventricle is greater than the blood pressure in the left atrium . Additionally as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle initially increases above the pressure of the blood in the left atrium blood may begin to flow towards and or back into the left atrium . The pressure differential and or initial flow of blood from the left ventricle into the left atrium may act against the spacer and may translate the spacer toward the left atrium . For example pressurized blood within the left ventricle may act against the bottom of the spacer inducing sliding translation of the spacer along the shaft toward the left atrium .

In the closed position as shown in the spacer may be translated toward and or at least partially into the left atrium . At least a portion of the spacer may interact with engage and or be positioned adjacent to at least a portion of the mitral valve . For example at least a portion of at least one cusp of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the spacer . Engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve may restrict and or prevent the flow of blood from the left ventricle back into the left atrium .

In addition to the translation of the spacer the mitral valve may also at least partially close around the spacer thereby also restricting and or preventing the flow of blood from the left ventricle to the left atrium . For example as mentioned above at least a portion of one or both of the cusps of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the spacer . In some embodiments as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle increases the pressure against the bottom of the spacer may increase. The increase in pressure against the bottom of the spacer may in turn increase the engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve .

Sliding translation of the spacer toward the left atrium may at least partially be controlled and or limited by the stop coupled to the shaft . Additionally translation of the spacer toward the left atrium may be at least partially limited and or controlled by engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve . One or both of these restrictions on the translation of the spacer may in some embodiments prevent the spacer from passing fully into the left atrium . Furthermore the diameter and or shape of the spacer may limit and or restrict the movement of the spacer into the left atrium .

The preceding embodiment may therefore provide a mitral valve implant that is slidably translatable relative to the mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate regurgitation. Additional embodiments of a mitral valve implant are described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 entitled Heart Valve Implant filed on Oct. 26 2005 which is fully incorporated herein by reference. For example the mitral valve implant may include a generally stationary spacer and may include more than one anchoring portions.

The implant herein has been disclosed above in the context of a mitral valve implant. An implant consistent with the present disclosure may also suitably be employed in other applications e.g. as an implant associated with one of the other valves of the heart etc. The present invention should not therefore be construed as being limited to use for reducing and or preventing regurgitation of the mitral valve.

According to one aspect the present disclosure features a heart valve implant. The heart valve implant may include a shaft extending generally along a longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant. A spacer may comprise a plurality of individual segments each including at least one passageway configured to be disposed about the shaft. The plurality of individual segments may define an outer surface of the spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. The heart valve implant may also include at least one anchor configured to be coupled to a first end region of the shaft.

According to another aspect the present disclosure features a method of introducing a heart valve implant with respect to a heart valve. The method may include providing a heart valve implant comprising a shaft a spacer including a plurality of individual segments each including at least one passageway configured to be disposed about the shaft and at least one anchor configured to be coupled to the shaft. The plurality of individual segments may be serially aligned. The aligned plurality of individual segments and the shaft may be percutaneously delivered proximate the heart. The plurality of individual segments may be arranged about shaft to define the spacer wherein the plurality of individual segments define an outer surface of the spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of the heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. The heart valve implant may also be secured within the heart.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure features a heart valve implant system. The heart valve system may include a catheter including a lumen and a heart valve implant. The heart valve implant may comprise a shaft extending generally along a longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant. A spacer may include a plurality of individual segments each having a length and at least one cross section dimension no larger than an internal cross section of the lumen. The plurality of individual segments may be configured to be disposed about at least a portion of the shaft to define an outer surface of the spacer configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. At least one anchor may be configured to be coupled to a first end region of the shaft.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to a system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied object or feature of the present disclosure and should not be limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the present disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as is suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure as determined by the claims when interpreted in accordance with breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

