---

title: Heat exchanger using graphite foam
abstract: A heat exchanger is disclosed. The heat exchanger may have an inlet configured to receive a first fluid and an outlet configured to discharge the first fluid. The heat exchanger may further have at least one passageway configured to conduct the first fluid from the inlet to the outlet. The at least one passageway may be composed of a graphite foam and a layer of graphite material on the exterior of the graphite foam. The layer of graphite material may form at least a partial barrier between the first fluid and a second fluid external to the at least one passageway.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08272431&OS=08272431&RS=08272431
owner: Caterpillar Inc.
number: 08272431
owner_city: Peoria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 319 024 filed Dec. 27 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 287 522 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AC05 00OR22725 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to a heat exchanger and more particularly to a heat exchanger with passageways fabricated from graphite foam.

Machines including for example on highway trucks wheel loaders and excavators utilize a variety of heat exchangers during operation. These heat exchangers may be used to increase decrease or maintain the temperature of oil coolant exhaust gas air and other fluids used in various machine operations.

In general heat exchangers are devices that transfer thermal energy between two fluids without direct contact between the two fluids. A primary fluid is typically directed through a fluid passageway of the heat exchanger while a secondary cooling or heating fluid is brought into external contact with the fluid passageway. In this manner thermal energy may be transferred between the primary and secondary fluids through the walls of the fluid passageway. The ability of the heat exchanger to transfer thermal energy from the primary fluid to the secondary fluid depends on amongst other things the heat transfer surface area of the fluid passageway and associated structures and the thermal properties of the heat exchanger materials.

Governments regulatory agencies and customers are continually urging machine manufacturers to increase fuel economy meet lower emission regulations and provide greater power densities. Due to these demands the pressure and temperature differentials across heat exchangers are increasing. As a result machine manufacturers must develop new materials and or methods for increasing the ability of heat exchangers to transfer heat.

One method for improving the ability of a heat exchanger to transfer heat is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 719 968 the 968 patent issued to Speros on Jan. 19 1988. In particular the 968 patent discloses a heat exchanger unit comprising a particulate heat exchanging mass or pack that consists of relatively small mechanically immobilized particles. The immobilized particles are compressively retained in an enclosure in heat transfer relationship to each other and to a fluid directed therethrough. Preferred materials for the particles are crystalline carbon copper and aluminum. The pack may be in cylindrical form and may be contained within metal conduits or for solar radiation within a transparent or translucent enclosure. The annular space between the conduits one conduit being internal to the second conduit may be packed with graphite particles having a thermal diffusivity which is of comparable magnitude to that of the encasing metal tube. Such an arrangement further improves the rate of heat transfer through a counter flow fluid passing through the annular space. Also the heat exchanger mass provides a significantly larger area of heat transfer contact between the particles and the fluid passing through the mass as well as a multiplicity of minute flow channels to direct the fluid into intimate contact with adjacent heat transfer particles.

Although the heat exchanger of the 968 patent may provide a large area of heat transfer contact between the particles and the fluid passing through the mass it may still be suboptimal. For example using mechanical pressure to thermally couple the conduit to the pack may result in high thermal resistance. Also the materials of the conduit and the pack may have different thermal properties e.g. thermal conductivity and or coefficient of thermal expansion . The difference in the thermal properties may cause the conduit to expand at a higher rate than the pack resulting in loosening cracking and or further increases in thermal resistance. Finally for high flow rates a large pressure may be required to immobilize the particles between the inner and outer conduits thus creating undesirable stresses in the heat exchanger materials.

In one aspect the present disclosure is directed to a heat exchanger. The heat exchanger may include an inlet configured to receive a first fluid and an outlet configured to discharge the first fluid. The heat exchanger may further include at least one passageway configured to conduct the first fluid from the inlet to the outlet. The at least one passageway may be composed of a graphite foam and a layer of graphite material on the exterior of the graphite foam. The layer of graphite material may form at least a partial barrier between the first fluid and a second fluid external to the at least one passageway.

In another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method of transferring thermal energy. The method may include conducting a first fluid through at least one passageway composed of graphite foam. The method may further include at least partially separating the first fluid from a second fluid that is external to the at least one passageway using a layer of graphite material.

Housing may be a hollow member configured to conduct fluid across passageways . Specifically housing may have an inlet configured to receive a second fluid and an outlet configured to discharge the second fluid. Housing may also have one or more baffles located to redirect the second fluid. The redirection of the second fluid may help increase the transfer of heat by increasing the second fluid s interaction with passageways i.e. preventing a direct flow path from inlet to outlet and or directing the second fluid to flow in a direction normal to an axial dimension of passageways i.e. creating a cross flow configuration . It is contemplated that baffles may also be omitted to create a parallel flow or counter flow configuration. Housing may further include one or more passageway support members . Passageway support members may embody plate like members that include a plurality of holes configured to receive and support passageways . Passageway support members may connect to passageways via mechanical fastening chemical boding or in any other appropriate manner. It is contemplated that passageway support members may be manufactured of metal plastic rubber or any other material known in the art.

First and second manifolds and may be hollow members that distribute fluid to or gather fluid from passageways . First manifold may have a first orifice and a plurality of second orifices fluidly connected to input ends of passageways . Second manifold may have a plurality of second orifices fluidly connected to output ends of passageways and a first orifice . It is contemplated that first orifice of first manifold and or first orifice of second manifold may be fluidly connected to a fluid system component not shown such as for example a filter a pump a nozzle a power source or any other fluid system component known in the art. It is contemplated that the first fluid may flow through heat exchanger in either direction i.e. the first fluid may enter first manifold and exit second manifold or enter second manifold and exit first manifold .

Referring to passageways may be elongated members that conduct the first fluid through heat exchanger and promote the transfer of thermal energy between the first and second fluids the first fluid may be at either a higher or a lower temperature than the second fluid . Passageways may include an inlet an outlet a separating layer and one or more turbulators . It is contemplated that the materials used to manufacture passageways may have appropriate structural and thermal properties e.g. relatively high thermal conductivity low coefficient of thermal expansion and low density . Specifically for example passageways may be composed of a carbon or a graphite foam . In one embodiment passageways may be substantially or entirely filled with foam .

Foam may embody a network of connected ligaments composed of graphite. Foam may be created using a coal and or pitch precursor and may be manufactured using any appropriate method known in the art. A shape of each passageway may be formed for example by creating foam in a mold by extruding foam or by creating foam in bulk and machining it to size. Foam may also be heat treated. Foam may be formed with an open cell structure that allows transmission of the first fluid through passageways i.e. fluid flows through the voids between the ligaments . It is contemplated that the percentage of void space in foam may be modified to create a desired pressure and flow rate a desired structural strength and or a heat transfer surface area required for a particular application of heat exchanger .

Layer may be a structure that fluidly separates the first fluid from the second fluid. For example layer may embody a skin of solid graphite i.e. a non cellular structure or a closed cell layer of foam . It is contemplated that layer and foam may be formed in a single manufacturing process e.g. layer and foam created simultaneously or may be formed in a series of processes e.g. layer created first and then foam formed internal to layer or vice versa . It is further contemplated that layer may be manufactured to form only a partial barrier between the first and second fluids thus allowing some mixing of the fluids. Layer and foam may be manufactured with strength properties e.g. by modifying thickness of layer size of foam ligaments and or width of passageway such that each of passageways provides its own structural support i.e. passageway does not require an additional exterior passageway for support . For example it is contemplated that each of passageways may support at least its own weight when supported at one or more locations along the length of each passageway .

Turbulators may be turbulence promoting or enhancing structures located on an exterior surface of passageways . Turbulators may comprise ridges fins angled strips pins or other types of protrusions or distortions configured to promote turbulence and may additionally be configured to increase the available heat transfer surface area . Turbulators may be attached to or embedded in layer . It is also contemplated that turbulators may be integrally formed in layer by for example creating turbulators on an exterior surface of layer or by creating turbulators in an exterior surface of foam before layer is created on top of foam .

The disclosed heat exchanger may be implemented in any cooling or heating application where improved heat transfer capabilities are desired. The disclosed heat exchanger may use passageways composed of a high thermal conductivity graphite foam. The passageways of the disclosed heat exchanger may also have a layer of graphite or closed cell graphite foam that separates the second fluid flowing on the exterior of the passageways from the first fluid flowing on the interior of the passageways. By using only graphite and or graphite foam materials in the manufacturing of the passageways the disclosed heat exchanger may achieve improved heat transfer and weight characteristics. The operation of heat exchanger will now be explained.

Referring to heat exchanger may be utilized for example to cool a high temperature first gas flowing through passageways using a lower temperature second gas flowing through housing . Initially the lower temperature second gas may be received into housing via inlet . The second gas may then be directed by baffles to flow in a switchback like pattern. The switchback like pattern may increase the percentage of the total flow path where the second gas is flowing in a direction generally normal to the axial dimension of passageways .

While the second gas flows through housing first manifold may receive the higher temperature first gas and may distribute the first gas into the inlet ends of passageways . Upon entering passageways the first gas may be conducted through the length of each of passageways by flowing through the void spaces between the ligaments of foam . As the first gas flows through each of passageways the thermal energy from the higher temperature first gas may be conducted through the ligaments of foam through layer and into the lower temperature second gas. As the thermal energy is transferred from the first gas to the second gas the temperature of the first gas may decrease. Turbulators located on the exterior surface of passageways may enhance turbulence in the second gas as it flows across passageways . The turbulence of the second gas may improve the convective heat transfer between the first and second gases.

The disclosed heat exchanger may be implemented in any cooling or heating application where improved heat transfer capabilities are desired. The disclosed heat exchanger may use passageways comprised of a graphite foam and a layer of graphite or closed cell graphite foam. By using only graphite and or graphite foam materials in the manufacturing of the passageways the disclosed heat exchanger may achieve improved heat transfer and weight characteristics while reducing thermal resistance and stress problems that may arise when using passageway materials with substantially different thermal conductivities and coefficients of thermal expansion. The network of ligaments in the graphite foam may also give the passageways structural rigidity without requiring other supporting structures or materials.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the disclosed heat exchanger. Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosed heat exchanger. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope being indicated by the following claims and their equivalents.

