---

title: Channel selection techniques for wireless networks
abstract: Channel selection techniques for a wireless network are described. An apparatus may comprise a device to communicate information over a common wireless communication link. The device may include a channel selection module to select a channel pair comprising a high rate physical channel and a low rate physical channel based on energy measurements for the channels. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08681707&OS=08681707&RS=08681707
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08681707
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071130
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 890 991 entitled CHANNEL SELECTION TECHNIQUES FOR WIRELESS NETWORKS filed on Feb. 21 2007.

Wireless communication systems communicate information over a shared wireless communication medium such as one or more portions of the radio frequency RF spectrum. Demand for use of the limited RF spectrum is high therefore creating a constant need to improve bandwidth efficiency and utilization. In many cases wireless communication systems typically divide the available RF spectrum into sub portions so that multiple wireless devices can communicate at the same time. Efficient assignment and use of the sub portions may increase the number of wireless devices that can simultaneously use the available RF spectrum thereby leading to improved bandwidth efficiency.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to spatial reuse techniques for wireless communication systems. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to a channel selection technique for selecting one or more communication channels from a common or shared wireless media such as one or more bands of RF spectrum. In one embodiment for example a novel and unique channel selection algorithm may be implemented in a wireless device to select channel pairs suitable for wireless communication between two or more devices over a wireless network such as a wireless video area network WVAN or wireless personal area network WPAN . Such networks are sometimes referred to as piconets due to their limited transmission ranges and participating devices.

In one embodiment for example a first device may be arranged to communicate information over a common wireless communication link to a second device. The first device or second device may include a channel selection module to select a channel pair to communicate media information between the two devices. A channel pair may refer to two or more communication channels suitable for use with a given set of devices. One example of media information may include High Definition Television HDTV content and signals. The channel pairs may each include a first channel to communicate information from the first device to the second device and a second channel to communicate information from the second device to the first device. In one embodiment for example the channels may have different transmission envelopes or characteristics. For example the first channel may be a directional channel and the second channel may be an omni directional channel. A directional channel may refer to a channel used for directional transmissions. An omni directional channel may refer to a channel used for omni directional transmissions. In one embodiment for example the channels may operate at different transmission speeds. For example the first channel may comprise a high rate physical HRP channel and the second channel may comprise a low rate physical LRP channel. Alternatively both channels in a channel pair may comprise HRP channels or LRP channels as desired for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the channel selection module may be arranged to select channel pairs to reduce spatial interference between adjacent or nearby devices and to promote efficient spatial reuse for a wireless communication system. In some cases one or both channels for a channel pair for a given piconet established between two or more devices may potentially create interference with other devices within transmission range of a transmitting device using a given channel. For example the LRP channel may be an omni directional channel thereby creating a transmission envelope in all directions around the transmitting device which may interfere with other HRP and or LRP transmissions. As a result nearby devices typically need to select different LRP channels to reduce such interference. Since there is limited RF spectrum assigned to a given communications system however the selection of different LRP channels may be inefficient and quickly consume the available spectrum thereby reducing the number of devices that can communicate at the same time. Consequently the channel selection module attempts to select channel pairs that reduce interference to surrounding devices while also efficiently using the available spectrum to increase the number of devices capable of simultaneously using the available spectrum.

In various embodiments the communications system may comprise or form part of a wired communications system a wireless communications system or a combination of both. For example the communications system may include one or more nodes arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wired communication links. Examples of a wired communication link may include without limitation a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection and so forth. The communications system also may include one or more nodes arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links. Examples of a wireless communication link may include without limitation a radio channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel Wireless Fidelity WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands.

The communications system may communicate information in accordance with one or more standards as promulgated by a standards organization. In one embodiment for example various devices comprising part of the communications system may be arranged to operate in accordance with one or more of the WirelessHD specifications standards or variants such as the WirelessHD Specification Revision 0.6d1 Jan. 16 2007 and its progeny as promulgated by WirelessHD LLC collectively referred to as the WirelessHD Specification . The WirelessHD Specification defines a next generation wireless digital network interface for consumer electronic products. Specifically the WirelessHD Specification enables wireless connectivity for streaming high definition content between source devices and high definition displays. The WirelessHD Specification defines a wireless protocol that enables the creation of a WVAN. In a current instantiation of the WirelessHD Specification the MAC and PHY are defined to support the wireless delivery of uncompressed high definition audio and video at formats up to 1080p at 60 Hertz Hz with 24 bit color at a range that is typically at least 10 meters. In addition the delivery of compressed audio visual AV streams and data is also supported at a similar range. An adaptation sub layer enables network and service set up by supporting authentication advanced device and connection control.

Although some embodiments may be described with reference to the WirelessHD Specification by way of example it may be appreciated that the techniques described herein may also be implemented for other wireless standards as promulgated by other standards organizations as well such as the International Telecommunications Union ITU the International Organization for Standardization ISO the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers information IEEE the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF and so forth. In various embodiments for example the communications system may communicate information according to one or more IEEE 802.11 standards for wireless local area networks WLANs such as the information IEEE 802.11 standard 1999 Edition Information Technology Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Specific Requirements Part 11 WLAN Medium Access Control MAC and Physical PHY Layer Specifications its progeny and supplements thereto e.g. 802.11a b g h j n and variants IEEE 802.16 standards for WMAN including the IEEE 802.16 standard such as 802.16 2004 802.16.2 2004 802.16e 2005 802.16f and variants and other wireless networking standards. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The communications system may communicate manage or process information in accordance with one or more protocols. A protocol may comprise a set of predefined rules or instructions for managing communication among nodes. In various embodiments for example the communications system may employ one or more protocols such as a medium access control MAC protocol Physical Layer Convergence Protocol PLCP Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM protocol Frame Relay protocol Systems Network Architecture SNA protocol Transport Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP TCP IP X.25 Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP User Datagram Protocol UDP and so forth.

The communications system also may be arranged to operate in accordance with standards and or protocols for media processing. Examples of media processing standards include without limitation the High Definition Television HDTV standards as defined by the ITU Radiocommunication Sector ITU R such as the Recommendation BT.709 5 Parameter Values for the HDTV Standards For Production and International Programme Exchange published April 2002 the Digital Video Broadcasting Terrestrial DVB T broadcasting standard the ITU IEC H.263 standard Video Coding for Low Bitrate Communication ITU T Recommendation H.263v3 published November 2000 and or the ITU IEC H.264 standard Video Coding for Very Low Bit Rate Communication ITU T Recommendation H.264 published May 2003 Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG standards e.g. MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 and or High performance radio Local Area Network HiperLAN standards. Examples of media processing protocols include without limitation Session Description Protocol SDP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP Real time Transport Protocol RTP Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL protocol and or Internet Streaming Media Alliance ISMA protocol. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in the communications system may comprise a transmitter node coupled to a plurality of receiver nodes where n may represent any positive integer value. In various embodiments the transmitter node and the plurality of receiver nodes may be implemented as various types of wireless devices. Examples of wireless devices may include without limitation a coordinator a station a subscriber station a base station a wireless access point AP a wireless client device a wireless station STA a laptop computer ultra laptop computer portable computer personal computer PC notebook PC handheld computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA smartphone pager messaging device media player digital music player set top box STB appliance workstation user terminal mobile unit consumer electronics television digital television high definition television television receiver high definition television receiver and so forth. In such embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may comprise one more wireless interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transceivers chipsets amplifiers filters control logic network interface cards NICs antennas antenna arrays and so forth. Examples of an antenna may include without limitation an internal antenna an omni directional antenna a monopole antenna a dipole antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna a dual antenna an antenna array and so forth. In one embodiment certain devices may include antenna arrays of multiple antennas to implement various adaptive antenna techniques and spatial diversity techniques.

In various embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may comprise or form part of a wireless network . In one embodiment for example the wireless network may comprise a WVAN as defined by the WirelessHD Specification. In the context of a WVAN both nodes may be implemented as WirelessHD compliant devices. In a WVAN the transmitter node may be communicatively coupled to one or more receiver nodes . In accordance with the WirelessHD Specification and nomenclature one or both of the nodes may be implemented as a coordinator or a station. A coordinator is normally but not always a device that is a sink for media information e.g. audio or video data . The coordinator typically includes a display and in some cases a media storage device such as a personal video recorder PVR media server or STB. A station may comprise a device that either has media information that it can source or sink potentially at the same time.

Although some embodiments may be described with the wireless network implemented as a WVAN network for purposes of illustration and not limitation it can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the wireless network may comprise or be implemented as various types of wireless networks and associated protocols suitable for a WPAN a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Broadband Wireless Access BWA network a radio network a television network a satellite network such as a direct broadcast satellite DBS network and or any other wireless communications network configured to operate in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown in the embodiment of the transmitter node may be coupled to receiver nodes by wireless communication links . A particular wireless communication link e.g. wireless communication link may be arranged to establish one or more common or dedicated connections between the transmitter node and a particular receiver node e.g. receiver node . In various embodiments a particular wireless communication link e.g. wireless communication link may include multiple virtual channels with each of the virtual channels comprising a point to point logical connection from the transmitter node to a particular receiver node e.g. receiver node . In various implementations multiple virtual channels may share a physical link with each virtual channel comprising dedicated resources or bandwidth of the physical link.

In various embodiments the nodes may communicate using a physical layer component PHY such as a high rate PHY HRP . In one embodiment for example the HRP supports multi Gb s throughput at a distance of approximately 10 meters through adaptive antenna technology. Because of this the HRP is highly directional and is typically used for only unicast connections. The HRP is optimized for the delivery of uncompressed high definition video although other data can be communicated using the HRP. To support multiple video resolutions the HRP has more than one data rate defined. The HRP carries isochronous data such as audio and video asynchronous data MAC commands antenna beam forming information and higher layer control data for A V devices.

In various embodiments the nodes may also communicate using a low rate PHY LRP . The LRP is a multi Mb s bidirectional link that also provides a range of approximately 10 meters. Multiple data rates are defined for the LRP with the lower data rates having near omni directional coverage while the highest data rates are directional. Because the LRP has near omni directional modes it can be used for both unicast and broadcast connections. Furthermore because all stations support the LRP it can be used for station to station links. The LRP supports multiple data rates including directional modes and is used to carry low rate isochronous data such as audio low rate asynchronous data MAC commands including the beacon acknowledgements for HRP packets antenna beam forming information capabilities information and higher layer control data for A V devices.

The HRP and LRP operate in overlapping frequency bands and so they are coordinated by the MAC. The media access scheme may include a time division multiple access TDMA format a frequency division multiple access FDMA format a TDMA FDMA format a code division multiple access CDMA a wide band CDMA WCDMA format an orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA format and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The WVAN typically supports two types of devices such as a coordinator and a station. The coordinator controls the timing in the piconet keeps track of the members of the WVAN is able to transmit and receive using the LRP may be able to transmit data using the HRP and may be able to receive data using the HRP. A station is able to transmit and receive using the LRP may initiate stream connections may be able to transmit data using the HRP and may be able to receive data using the HRP. A station may be capable of acting as a coordinator in the WVAN. Such a station is referred to as being coordinator capable.

In addition to the two MAC personalities of coordinator and station each device in the WVAN will have one of four different PHY capabilities as shown in Table 1 as follows 

In various embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may be arranged to communicate various types of media information in multiple communication frames. The various types of media information may include image information audio information video information AV information and or other data provided from the media source . In various embodiments the information may be associated with one or more images image files image groups pictures digital photographs music file sound files voice information videos video clips video files video sequences video feeds video streams movies broadcast programming television signals web pages user interfaces graphics textual information e.g. encryption keys serial numbers e mail messages text messages instant messages contact lists telephone numbers task lists calendar entries hyperlinks numerical information alphanumeric information character symbols and so forth. The information also may include command information control information routing information processing information system file information system library information software e.g. operating system software file system software application software game software firmware an application programming interface API a program an applet a subroutine an instruction set an instruction computing code logic words values symbols and so forth.

The transmitter node may be arranged to receive media content from a media source node to be unicast and or multicast to one or more of the receiver nodes . In various embodiments the transmitter node may be arranged to receive media content from the source node . The media source node generally may comprise any media source capable of delivering static or dynamic media content to the transmitter node . In one embodiment for example the media source node may comprise a multimedia server arranged to provide broadcast or streaming media content to the transmitter node . In some implementations the media source node may form part of a media distribution system DS or broadcast system such as an over the air OTA broadcast system a radio broadcast system a television broadcast system a satellite broadcast system and so forth. In some implementations the media source node may be arranged to deliver media content pre recorded and stored in various formats for use by a device such as a Digital Versatile Disk DVD device a Video Home System VHS device a digital VHS device a digital camera video camera a portable media player a gaming device and so forth.

As shown in the embodiment of for example the transmitter node may be coupled to the media source node through a communication medium . The communication medium generally may comprise any medium capable of carrying information signals such as a wired communication link wireless communication link or a combination of both as desired for a given implementation. In various embodiments the communication medium may comprise a wired communication link implemented as a wired Ethernet and or P2P connection for example. In such embodiments information may be communicated over the communication medium in accordance with the information IEEE 802.3 and the transmitter node may receive media content from the media source node substantially loss free.

Although some embodiments may be described with the communication medium implemented as a wired Ethernet and or P2P connection for purposes of illustration and not limitation it can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the communication medium between the transmitter node and the source node may comprise various types of wired and or wireless communication media and in some cases may traverse one or more networks between such devices.

The transmitter node may be arranged to buffer media content and to parse or fragment the media content into communication frames for unicast or multicast transmission to the receiver nodes . In some implementations the transmitter node may be arranged to parse or fragment the received media content as it is read into a buffer. In some embodiments the media content provided to the transmitter node may be delivered as one or more media frames. Each media frame may comprise a discrete data set having a fixed or varying length and may be represented in terms of bits or bytes such as 16 kilobytes kB for example. It can be appreciated that the described embodiments are applicable to various types of communication content or formats such as frames packets fragments cells units and so forth.

In various embodiments the transmitter node may be arranged to create a sequence of media frames to be broadcast over one or more of the wireless communication links . Each media frame may comprise a discrete data set having fixed or varying lengths and may be represented in terms of bits or bytes. While multicasting each media frame may contain a destination address comprising a group address corresponding to multiple intended recipients such as receiver nodes . In some embodiments the destination address may refer to all receiver nodes within the wireless network .

As shown the wireless network may comprise a transmitter node coupled to a receiver node . In various embodiments the wireless communications system may comprise or be implemented by one or more elements of the communications system of such as wireless network transmitter node and receiver nodes . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example the transmitter node and the receiver node may be implemented as WirelessHD compliant devices and the wireless network may be implemented as a WVAN network. In such an embodiment the wireless network may communicate information in accordance with the WirelessHD Specification and associated techniques and the transmitter node may comprise a WirelessHD compliant device communicatively coupled to the receiver node comprising another WirelessHD compliant device. In various implementations the wireless network may support a unicast and or multicast communication environment for distributing media content by unicasting and or multicasting from the transmitter node to the receiver node . Typically the transmitter node will utilize unicast or multicast techniques based upon the type of channel being used. For example the transmitter node will utilize unicast techniques when using a HRP channel and multicast techniques when using a LRP channel. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example the transmitter node and the receiver node each may include the capability to establish one or more wireless communications channels . In various embodiments the communications channel may be implemented at the MAC layer of the communication protocol stack within a transceiver and or wireless communication chipset of a wireless device.

In some cases however the channel pairs selected for a given set of devices may create interference with other devices that are nearby adjacent or proximate to the communicating devices. As shown in for example a device B may communicate with a device A using a HRP channel such as HRP. Similarly device D may communicate with device C using a HRP channel such as HRP. Since the HRP channel used by device pair A B and device pair C D are directional channels the transmission envelopes create little or no interference between adjacent devices. Consequently the directional characteristic of the HRP channels allow the spatial reuse of HRP which effectively increases channel capacity for the system . By way of contrast on the return channel device A may communicate with device B using a LRP channel such as LRP and device C may communicate with device D using a LRP channel such as LRP. Since the LRP channels used by device pair A B and device pair C D are omni directional channels however the transmission envelope created by device C potentially interferes with the reception by device A and vice versa. As a result device pair A B and device pair C D are forced to use different LRP channels thereby decreasing the number of channels available to the system relative to the channel allocations for the HRP channels.

Various embodiments attempt to solve these and other problems by using a novel channel pair selection algorithm that selects a channel pair for two or more WirelessHD compliant devices. To accomplish this the transmitter node and or the receiver node may include a channel selection module . The channel selection module may implement the channel pair selection algorithm to select a channel pair that provides efficient spatial reuse for the available RF spectrum while reducing interference between nearby devices.

For example assume a transmitter node and a receiver node are implemented as a station and coordinator respectively in a WVAN for a WirelessHD system. The transmitter node may receive media information from a media source such as multimedia server destined for transmission to the receiver node . Prior to transmitting the media information a piconet needs to be established between the transmitter node and the receiver node . To establish the piconet a channel selection module for one of the nodes may initiate a scanning process for available communication channels. In one embodiment for example this is typically performed by the transmitter node . In some cases however the receiver node may also perform channel selection operations to assist the transmitter node or in lieu of the transmitter node . After performing the scanning process the transmitter node either joins an existing wireless network or creates a new one. The channel selection module may implement a channel selection algorithm to select an available HRP LRP channel pair to create a new wireless network. The channel selection module allows spatial reuse of a HRP channel using multiple LRP channels.

In various embodiments each block may be used for a HRP channel as represented by HRP channels HRP . In addition the sub blocks for each block may be used for a LRP channel as represented by LRP channels LRP . Using this allocation scheme each block may potentially represent multiple channel pairs for different networks created between two or more devices. As shown in for example a block may provide at least 3 channel pairs such as HRP LRP for a piconet HRP LRP for a piconet an HRP LRP for a piconet . With this spectrum allocation technique the channel selection module for nodes may quickly scan the available spectrum for candidate channel pairs for a new network between the nodes . Further the spectrum allocation technique arranges the candidate channel pairs in a manner to reduce potential interference with other channel pairs assigned to the communication system . The operations for the channel selection module may be described in more detail with reference to .

Operations for various embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow. It can be appreciated that an illustrated logic flow merely provides one example of how the described functionality may be implemented. Further a given logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition a logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example the logic flow may perform energy measurements for available communication channels at block . The logic flow may generate a first list of available channel pairs each comprising a high rate physical channel and a low rate physical channel at block . The logic flow may select a final channel pair from the first list of available channel pairs based on the energy measurements at block .

By way of example assume the transmitter node communicates HDTV media content to a receiver node such as receiver node comprising a HDTV display via wireless communication channel . Prior to communicating the media information the channel selection module may scan all LRP and all HRP channels in order to perform energy detection and measurement. The channel selection module may find all available HRP LRP channel pairs for which the detected energy for one or both of the HRP and LRP channels is below a corresponding set of defined HRP and LRP interference threshold values respectively. The defined HRP and LRP interference threshold values may be any values defined in accordance with a desired set of performance or design constraints. The channel selection module may then select the most appropriate HRP LRP pair based on the detected energy measurements for these channels.

In one embodiment for example the channel selection module may be arranged to select the most appropriate HRP LRP pair by focusing on the HRP channel first. In one embodiment for example the channel selection module may compare energy measurements for the high rate physical channels for channel pairs from the first list with a first defined energy value such as an HRP interference threshold value for example. The channel selection module may generate a second list of channel pairs having high rate physical channels with energy measurements below the first defined energy value based on the comparison. The channel selection module may compare the energy measurements for the low rate physical channels for channel pairs from the second list with a second defined energy value such as an LRP interference threshold value. The channel selection module may select the final channel pair from the second list having a low rate physical channel with a lowest energy measurement.

In one embodiment for example the channel selection module may be arranged to select the most appropriate HRP LRP pair by focusing on the LRP channel first. For example the channel selection module may compare energy measurements for the low rate physical channels for channel pairs from the first list with a first defined energy value such as an LRP interference threshold value. The channel selection module may generate a second list of channel pairs having low rate physical channels with energy measurements below the first defined energy value based on the comparison. The channel selection module may compare energy measurements for the high rate physical channels for channel pairs from the second list with a second defined energy value such as an HRP interference threshold value. The channel selection module may select the final channel pair from the second list having a high rate physical channel with a lowest energy measurement.

By way of example the channel selection module of transmitter node may use various selection criteria to select a channel pair. For example the channel selection module may be arranged to select a channel pair by first choosing the pairs with the least HRP interference and then selecting the pair among them with the least LRP interference. Alternatively the channel selection module may be arranged to select a channel pair by first choosing the pairs with the least LRP interference and then selecting the pair among them with the least HRP interference.

Another unique selection criterion used by the channel selection module may include utilizing a weighted interference function to emphasize or de emphasize the HRP channel or the LRP channel for a given implementation. In one embodiment for example the channel selection module may calculate a weighted interference function that combines energy measurements for a channel pair from the first list to create a channel pair energy measurement. The channel selection module may select a final channel pair based on the channel pair energy measurements. By way of example the channel selection module may calculate a weighted interference function that will combine measured interferences of both the HRP and LRP channels together. The channel selection module may then select the channel pair that has the smallest weight for example.

To further decrease potential interference to surrounding devices the transmitter node may be arranged to communicate information via the LRP channel using CDMA techniques. Spreading the information using a unique spreading code may further decrease the possibility of creating interference with adjacent channels and or devices thereby effectively increasing spatial reuse of the common or shared wireless media. In addition to CDMA any suitable media access technique may be used as previously described e.g. TDMA FDMA TDMA FDMA WCDMA and so forth to further provide channel separation and increase channel reuse.

The article and or machine readable storage medium may include one or more types of computer readable storage media capable of storing data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of a machine readable storage medium may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDR DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM Compact Disk ROM CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory e.g. ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory disk e.g. floppy disk hard drive optical disk magnetic disk magneto optical disk or card e.g. magnetic card optical card tape cassette or any other type of computer readable storage media suitable for storing information. Moreover any media involved with downloading or transferring a computer program from a remote computer to a requesting computer carried by data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium through a communication link e.g. a modem radio or network connection is considered computer readable storage media.

The article and or machine readable medium may store logic comprising instructions data and or code that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the described embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software.

The logic may comprise or be implemented as software a software module an application a program a subroutine instructions an instruction set computing code words values symbols or combination thereof. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The instructions may be implemented according to a predefined computer language manner or syntax for instructing a processor to perform a certain function. The instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language such as C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC assembly language machine code and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context. When implemented the logic is implemented as software the software may be executed by any suitable processor and memory unit.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

It is also worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

