---

title: Conversion of ultra-intense infrared laser energy into relativistic particles
abstract: Devices and methods for producing relativistic particles are provided. The devices and methods involve collision of a thin collimated plasma layer from opposite sides with two counter-propagating ultra-intense laser (UL) electromagnetic (EM) pulses. The plasma layer is sufficiently thin so that the pulses penetrate and conjointly propagate through the plasma layer. The Lorenz force between induced skin currents and the magnetic field of the propagating pulses accelerates a number of “in-phase” plasma particles to relativistic velocities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07710007&OS=07710007&RS=07710007
owner: William Marsh Rice University
number: 07710007
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070215
---
This application is a continuation of International Patent Application No. PCT US2005 029078 filed Aug. 16 2005 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 601 923 filed Aug. 16 2004.

This disclosure was developed at least in part using funding from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Goddard Space Flight Center under Contract No. NAG5 7980 and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract No. B528326. The U.S. government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to the production of relativistic particles and more particularly to the production of relativistic particles by colliding a plasma with electromagnetic pulses.

The sustainable acceleration of charged particles is a major challenge in both basic plasma physics and astrophysics. Current conventional particle accelerators have an energy gain per distance of only about 1GeV m. Recent advances in ultra intense lasers ULs e.g. with intensity I 2 10Wcm open up a new frontier in the acceleration of particles via intense electromagnetic EM fields. See e.g. G. A. Mourou C. P. J. Barty M. D. Perry 51 1 22 1998 the T. Ditmire Ed. UT Austin 2003 for and by L Lontano et al. Eds. No. 611 AIP NY 2002 .

Most proposed laser acceleration schemes for example Laser Wake Field Acceleration LWFA Plasma Wake Field Acceleration PWFA Plasma Beat Wave Acceleration PBWA as described by E. Esarey P. Sprangle J. Krall A. Ting IEEE Trans. Plasma Sci. 24 252 1996 P. Sprangle E. Esary A. Ting 64 2011 1990 V. Malka in No. 611 p. 303 Ed. M. Lontano et al. AIP NY 2002 A. Pukhov J. Meyer ter Vehn 79 2686 1997 T. Tajima and J. M. Dawson 43 267 1979 and Free Wave Acceleration FWA as described by M. S. Hussein M. P. Pato A. K. Kerman 46 3562 1992 M. S. Hussein M. P. Pato 68 1992 S. Kawata T. Maruyama H. Watanabe I. Takahashi 66 2072 1991 J. G. Woodworth M. N. Kreisler A. K. Kerman . p. 378 Ed. T. Tajima AIP N.Y. 1996 involve the propagation of lasers in an underdense plasma 4 ne m 

When a single ultra intense laser UL irradiates a plasma surface through a variety of nonlinear collisionless processes as described for example by W. L. Kruer E. J. Valeo K. G. Estabrook 35 1076 1975 W. L. Kruer K. G. Estabrook 28 430 1985 and S. C. Wilks W. L. Kruer M. Tabak A. B. Langdon . 69 1383 1992 the single ultra intense laser UL as described for example by S. C. Wilks W. L. Kruer M. Tabak A. B. Langdon . 69 1383 1992 and A. Pukhov J. Meyer ter Vehn . 79 2686 1997 couples a significant fraction of the energy of the single ultra intense laser UL to superthermal electrons with characteristic energy E given by the Lorentz relativistic gamma factor E 511 keV 1 I 1.4 10Wcm 1 where I is the laser intensity in Watts cmand is the laser wavelength in m .

If the plasma is a slab of electron positron ee pairs in addition to the collisionless heating the light pressure will also snowplow the ee pairs with a bulk velocity determined by momentum conservation as described for example by W. L. Kruer E. J. Valeo K. G. Estabrook . 35 1076 1975 . For 1 m and I 10W cm particle in cell PIC simulations which are described for example by S. C. Wilks W. L. Kruer M. Tabak A. B. Langdon 69 1383 1992 A. Pukhov J. Meyer ten Vehn . 79 2686 1997 and E. P. Liang S. C. Wilks M. Tabak 81 4887 1998 show that the electrons can be accelerated to greater than about 10MeV. This has been confirmed with experiments as described for example by S. P. Hatchett et al. 7 2076 2000 K. W. D. Ledingham et al. 84 899 2000 . and T. E. Cowan et al. 84 903 2000 .

In a conventional laser ponderomotive accelerator in which a single ultra intense laser UL strikes an overdense ee plasma surface as described for example by S. C. Wilks W. L. Kruer M. Tabak A. B. Langdon 69 1383 1992 all upstream particles share the momentum of the Poynting flux. For a laser wavelength 1 m and an ultra intense laser UL intensity I 10W cm in conventional laser ponderomotive heating the Lorentz relativistic gamma factor may reach only 30 where eB mc is equal to the electron gyrofrequency in the laser magnetic field B mis the rest mass of an electron e or a positron e e is the absolute value of the electric charge of an electron e or a positron e c is the speed of light in a vacuum and is equal to the laser frequency. See e.g. W. L. Kruer K. G. Estabrook 28 430 1985 and S. C. Wilks W. L. Kruer M. Tabak A. B. Langdon 69 1383 1992 . A Diamagnetic Relativistic Pulse Accelerator DRPA of an overdense plasma has been proposed as described for example by E. Liang K. Nishimura H. Li S. P. Gary 90 085001 2003 E. Liang K. Nishimura 92 175005 2004 and K. Nishimura E. Liang 11 10 2004 . However the Diamagnetic Relativistic Pulse Accelerator DRPA is difficult and expensive to realize practically.

High energy gamma ray ray beams are conventionally only produced by large conventional particle accelerators e.g. synchrotron sources at national research facilities. Both the intensity of the high energy gamma ray ray beams produced by the large conventional particle accelerators and the energy conversion efficiency are relatively low. Consideration is now being given to the design of particle accelerators that can produce relativistic particles. In particular attention is being directed to the production of relativistic particles by colliding a plasma with electromagnetic pulses.

The present invention relates to the production of relativistic particles and more particularly to the production of relativistic particles by colliding a plasma with electromagnetic pulses.

Accelerators and methods for the production of relativistic particles are provided. The accelerators and methods involve producing a plasma and collimating the plasma. At least a portion of the collimated plasma is struck substantially simultaneously with two counter propagating ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses to accelerate particles in the plasma to about relativistic velocities i.e. velocities at which the particles exhibit relativistic behavior.

In suitable implementations of the accelerators and methods the plasma may be produced by striking a foil e.g. a high Z material foil with a pulse from a petawatt laser. The produced plasma may be an ee plasma an e ion plasma or a plasma composed of other suitable charged particle species. The produced plasma is collimated into a thin slab which is no thicker than about a wavelength of the ultra intense laser UL before being simultaneously struck by the counter propagating UL pulses.

The features and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the description of the present disclosure including the illustrative embodiments that follow.

The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing s will be provided by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.

Accelerators and methods for the production of relativistic particles are provided. The accelerators and methods produce relativistic particles by colliding electromagnetic pulses with a thin plasma layer. The plasma layer is sufficiently thin so that the pulses penetrate and conjointly propagate through the plasma layer. The Lorenz force between induced skin currents and the magnetic field of the propagating pulses accelerates a number of in phase plasma particles to relativistic velocities.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below. In the interest of clarity not all features of an actual implementation are described in this specification. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual embodiment numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which will vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure.

Petawatt laser may be capable of producing about a kilojoule 1 kJ pulse lasting about a picosecond 1 ps for about a petawatt 1 PW 10W output. The output may be focused down to a spot size of about 32 microns 32 m resulting in an intensity I of about I 10W 32 m 10W 32 10cm which is equal to I 10W 1024 10cmor about I 10W cmcorresponding to a value of I c of about 3 10erg cm. This value of I c can could produce about 10ee pairs cm. In comparison the ion density of solid gold Au is about 6 10 cm.

CPA also may include a converter capable of converting particles accelerated by the two counter propagating ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses striking at least a portion of the collimated plasma substantially simultaneously into other relativistic particles such as muons high energy gamma rays rays as described in more detail below and the like in ways that would be well known to those of skill in the pertinent art having the benefit of the present disclosure.

It is noted that conventional laser accelerator proposals involve underdense plasmas in which 4 ne m 

Particle in cell PIC simulations of the mechansim for sustained acceleration of electron positron ee plasmas by comoving electromagnetic EM pulses have been carried out. When a thin slab of an overdense ee plasma is irradiated with ultra intense short laser pulses from both sides the laser pulses are transmitted when the plasma is compressed to a thickness thinner than about 2 skin depths. A fraction of the plasma is captured and continuously accelerated by the transmitted laser pulses which are slowed by plasma loading reaching energies exceeding the ponderomotive limit. For a 1 m laser and 10Wcmintensity the maximum energy exceeds about a GeV in a picosecond. A thin slab of a plasma may be defined for example to be a slab of the plasma no thicker than about a wavelength of the ultra intense laser UL but usually thicker than about a plasma skin depth. Thus for a 1 m laser a thin slab of plasma may have a thickness in a range of about 0.5 m to about 1 m.

An overdense plasma may be defined for example by the condition 4 ne m 2 c where laser wavelength mis the rest mass of an electron e or a positron e e is the absolute value of the electric charge of an electron e or a positron e c is the speed of light in a vacuum and n electron density. Further a critically dense plasma may be defined for example by the condition 4 ne m 2 c where laser wavelength mis the rest mass of an electron e or a positron e e is the absolute value of the electric charge of an electron e or a positron e c is the speed of light in a vacuum and n the critical electron density n.

The simulations utilized a 2 D particle in cell PIC code ZOHAR. See e.g. C. K. Birdsall A. B. Langdon IOP Bristol UK 1991 and A. B. Langdon B. F. Lasinski . J. Killeen et al. Eds. Academic NY 1976 Vol. 16 p. 327 . The simulations demonstrate that striking a central ee plasma simultaneously with two counter propagating ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and can lead to continuous acceleration of at least some of the ee pairs to ultra high relativistic energies. Light pressure from two sides first compresses the slab of the central ee plasma until the slab becomes so thin that ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and are transmitted through ee plasma . As the electromagnetic EM waves pass through ee plasma the electromagnetic EM waves accelerate and trap a fraction of the ee pairs.

Induced drift currents then slow the electromagnetic EM waves so that the electromagnetic EM waves get in phase with the fastest ee particles. During the reexpansion of the central ee plasma the slower ee particles gradually fall behind the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and but the fastest ee particles stay in phase indefinitely helped by the ponderomotive traps formed by the drift currents. Both the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and and the decreasing number of fast ee particles become increasingly relativistic with time.

The inventive colliding pulse accelerators differ in at least two major ways from a conventional laser ponderomotive accelerator in which a single ultra intense laser pulse strikes a plasma surface. See e.g. S. C. Wilks W. L. Kruer M. Tabak A. B. Langdon 69 1383 1992 . First in conventional laser ponderomotive heating the accelerated particle usually gets one pass in the electromagnetic EM field whereas in the inventive colliding pulse accelerators e.g. CPA the fastest ee particles stay in phase indefinitely with the electromagnetic EM field. Second when the ultra intense laser UL light pressure in conventional laser ponderomotive heating snowplows a plasma all upstream particles share the momentum of the Poynting flux whereas in the inventive colliding pulse accelerators e.g. CPA the main ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and continually shed slower ee particles and focus the pulse energy on a decreasing number of fast ee particles. In CPA for example for a laser wavelength 1 m and an ultra intense laser UL intensity I 10W cm the Lorentz relativistic gamma factor y may reach several thousands in less than a picosecond ps . In contrast in conventional laser ponderomotive heating the Lorentz relativistic gamma factor o is equal to 30 where eB mc is equal to the electron gyrofrequency in the laser magnetic field B mis the rest mass of an electron e or a positron e e is the absolute value of the electric charge of an electron e or of a positron e c is the speed of light in a vacuum and coo is equal to the laser frequency . See e.g. W. L. Kruer K. G. Estabrook 28 430 1985 and S. C. Wilks W. L. Kruer M. Tabak A. B. Langdon 69 1383 1992 .

The principles of physics underlying the inventive colliding pulse accelerator CPA may be similar to those of a Diamagnetic Relativistic Pulse Accelerator DRPA which is described for example by E. Liang K. Nishimura H. Li S. P. Gary 90 085001 2003 E. Liang K. Nishimura 92 175005 2004 and K. Nishimura E. Liang 11 10 2004 . However it is noted that the Diamagnetic Relativistic Pulse Accelerator DRPA is conceptually launched by the sudden deconfinement of a strongly magnetized plasma which can be very difficult to realize experimentally. In contrast the inventive colliding pulse accelerators e.g. CPA utilize realized ultra intense laser UL technology.

The operation of CPA can be understood with reference to and . In CPA two linearly polarized plane electromagnetic EM pulses and are normally incident on a central ee plasma slab . Alternatively pulses and may be circularly polarized. show the simulated evolution of electromagnetic EM fields and and current density . Further show phase plots.

For the simulations shown the electromagnetic EM pulses and are idealized as half cycle sine waves. show time lapse snapshots of two ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and colliding normally with ee plasma centered at x 180 when t 2 1 and t 2 1.25 and t 2 1.5 and t 2 1.75 and and t 2 22.5 and .

As seen from the two ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and strike the initial ee plasma when t 2 where is equal to the laser frequency. The initial density of the ee plasma is n 15 where nis the critical density at which the electron positron ee plasma frequency 4 ne m is equal to the ultra intense laser UL frequency the initial thermal energy of the ee plasma is kT 2.6 keV the initial ee plasma thickness is equal to 0.5 m the ultra intense laser UL wavelength is 1 m and the ultra intense laser UL intensity is I 10W cm. show snapshots of the ultra intense laser UL magnetic field B the ultra intense laser UL electric field E and the current density J . show respective snapshots of phase plots of p mc vs. x where pis the component of the ee particle momentum p in the x direction.

As seen in and the incident ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and first steepen compress and accelerate the ee plasma inward Only a small fraction of the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and is reflected. With time the ee plasma becomes thin. and show skin currents that are much wider than c due to relativistic effects as described by P. Kaw J. Dawson 13 472 1970 . After the ee plasma becomes so thin that the induced skin currents from both sides start to merge the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and are transmitted through the ee plasma as seen in and even though formally the ee plasma density n n where nis the critical density at which . Such transmission of ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM waves through the overdense ee plasma can not occur with only single sided irradiation since the light pressure would simply snowplow the upstream ee plasma indefinitely.

As the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM waves and pass through the ee plasma the J B forces at first reflect and decelerate the counter streaming ee particles creating the complex phase pattern shown in . After the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and move ahead of the drift currents the J B forces reaccelerate the particles as shown in and respectively. In other words during compression the current density J sits at the leading edge of the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and to prevent the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and from entering the ee plasma while during reexpansion the current density J sits at the trailing edge of the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and to prevent the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and from leaving the ee plasma .

The change of the current density J location causes the J B force to switch from pushing to pulling. Since the current density J also slows the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and the fastest ee particles manage to stay in phase. As the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and propagate slower e e particles gradually fall behind and a decreasing number of remaining fast ee particles get most of the energy transfer from the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and . This makes the remaining fast ee particles increasingly relativistic with time as shown for example in . It is noted that that the reflected wave amplitude is only 10 of the transmitted amplitude as shown for example in

In all of the simulations performed the maximum energy increases with time according to c eE t dt where E t is the comoving electric field E as a function of time. However in practice the acceleration may be limited by the transverse size R of the ultra intense laser UL beam since a particle drifts transversely out of the laser beam after t R c. For sufficiently low ee pair densities and long ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and the maximum energy may be ultimately limited by eER 6GeV I 10Wcm R 100 m where E is the magnitude of the electric field E and I is the intensity of the ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and . Yet it is noted that this maximum energy attainable in the inventive accelerators corresponds to about 10x more energy gain per distance than is possible with current conventional particle accelerators which have an energy gain per distance of at most about 1 GeV m.

In practice it may be difficult to deliver substantially identical ultra intense laser UL intensities on both sides of plasma . Simulations were carried out to investigate the behavior of CPA in such practical circumstances. and show the simulation results for irradiating the target of and with ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses of unequal intensities. In particular the ee plasma targets for and are the same except for the initial densities of the respective ee plasmas as the ee plasma target for and where the initial ee plasma thickness is equal to 0.5 m the initial thermal energy of the ee plasma is kT 2.6 keV the ultra intense laser UL wavelength 1 m and the gaussian pulse length is equal to 85 femtoseconds fs . and show phase plots at t 2 22.5 of two unequal ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses striking an ee plasma centered at x 180.

The simulations described above focus on the basic physics of the colliding pulse accelerator CPA mechanism. Further simulations may relax simplifying assumptions such as uniform plane waves and normal incidence. 2 and 3 D codes may be used to study the effects of finite laser cross section beam divergence wave front and plasma non uniformities particle escape and other issues relevant to practical implementations of the colliding pulse accelerators.

With renewed reference to it is noted that in CPA petawatt PW laser can hit a gold foil to produce an ee plasma jet as demonstrated for example in the experiment described by T. E. Cowan et al. 17 773 1999 . This ee plasma jet having a density of about n 10 10cm can be then passed through a narrow slit collimator to produce about a 2 m thick ee plasma slab which is immediately irradiated from both sides by ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and . As an example consider ultra intense laser UL electromagnetic EM pulses and with an equivalent length of about 30 femtoseconds fs and an average intensity of about 10Wcm. To constrain the ee pairs to remain inside the beam while moving transversely at about c for about 1 picosecond ps e.g. as shown in and a ultra intense laser UL beam size of about R 600 m may be needed. This beam size need corresponds to about 1 kilojoule kJ of energy per ultra intense laser UL pulse. Such high energy ultra intense lasers ULs are currently being developed at many sites worldwide as described in the T. Ditmire Ed. UT Austin 2003 . Thus it is likely that practical implementations of inventive colliding pulse accelerator CPA and method can be achieved expeditiously.

It is further noted that petawatt PW laser which may be used to produce the ee plasma jet can be a medium energy laser since only a small number of ee pairs is required for relativistic particle production. Scaling from the results described by T. E. Cowan et al. 17 773 1999 for example a 50 femtosecond fs 50 J petawatt PW laser can produce about 10ee pairs with a jet length of about 15 m which should suffice for many applications.

In practical implementations of the invention suitable diagnostic techniques may be used to characterize particles. For measurements of the spectrum and density profile of the accelerated ee pairs detecting D rays produced by Compton scattering as described by G. B. Rybicki A. P. Lightman . Wiley NY 1979 may provide the cleanest diagnostics. At a maximum Lorentz relativistic gamma factor of about 3000 Compton backscattering converts a 1 eV infrared IR photon into a 10 MeV ray as described for example by G. B. Rybicki A. P. Lightman . Wiley N.Y. 1979 . Therefore shining a pulsed infrared IR probe laser into the accelerated ee pairs and measuring the backscattered ray spectrum and intensity as functions of the backscattered ray arrival time can provide snapshots of the ee phase distribution.

In addition to producing relativistic particles the inventive CPA and method can be used for conversion of infrared IR laser energy into high energy rays. The laser energy may be extracted as rays via Compton scattering of infrared IR photons as described above. For example a 1 GeV electron may Compton backscatter a 1 eV infrared IR photon into a 4 MeV ray. The resulting high energy ray beam will be narrowly focused in the forward direction due to relativistic effects.

The intense rays extracted via Compton scattering of infrared IR photons may be suitable for a wide range of applications including medical irradiation applications medical imaging applications and material science imaging applications. It is expected that the intensity of the intense rays extracted via Compton scattering of infrared IR photons and the energy conversion efficiency in CPA will be much higher than for conventional high energy gamma ray ray beams produced by large conventional particle accelerators. Further as ultra intense lasers ULs become smaller in size e.g. tabletop size rather than room sized small portable ray sources may be made available based on the inventive CPA and method . The intense rays generation may be studied using particle in cell PIC code coupled to Monte Carlo photon transport.

The ee plasmas which show high mobility and efficient acceleration have been used as convenient examples herein to describe the operation of CPA and method . However it will be understood that the invention is not limited to such plasmas. For example low density electron ion e ion plasmas may be subject to 2 sided ultra intense laser UL irradiation for relativistic particle production in accordance with the principles of the invention. The low density electron ion e ion plasmas may for example be made with gas jets and or aerogels. At sufficiently low densities charge separation electric fields as described for example by K. Nishimura E. Liang S. P. Gary 10 4559 2003 between the electrons and ions may become too weak to prevent the 2 sided ultra intense laser UL pulses from accelerating the electrons. Therefore colliding pulse accelerator CPA and method may be operated with electron ion e ion plasmas for the production of relativistic particles and high intensity y rays though perhaps at a lower efficiency.

Further particle in cell PIC simulations of the comoving acceleration of overdense plasmas by colliding UL pulses have been carried out. In this case the acceleration gradient and particle beam intensity are not limited by the underdensity condition as described above. This colliding pulses accelerator CPA mechanism may have additional important applications complementary to those of underdense laser acceleration schemes.

For example consider an intense electromagnetic EM pulse with a eB mc a the magnitude of the normalized vector potential initially imbedded inside an overdense plasma . When the intense electromagnetic EM pulse tries to escape the intense electromagnetic EM pulse induces a diamagnetic skin current J that inhibits the electromagnetic EM field from leaving. The resultant J B ponderomotive force then accelerates the surface plasma to follow the electromagnetic EM pulse. As the electromagnetic EM pulse pulls the surface plasma the electromagnetic EM pulse is slowed by plasma loading group velocity a 2 as described for example by L. D. Landau E. M. Lifshitz Pergamon London 1975 T. Boyd J. Sanderson Barnes and Noble NY 1969 and F. V. Hartmann and A. K. Kerman 76 624 1996 . This phenomenon is called the diamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA mechanism as described for example by E. Liang K. Nishimura H. Li S. P. Gary Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 085001 2003 E. Liang K. Nishimura 92 175005 2004 and K. Nishimura E. Liang 11 10 2004 . The diamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA is strictly a nonlinear collective relativistic phenomenon with no analog in the weak field and or test particle limit.

Since the discovery of the diamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA mechanism from particle in cell PIC simulations a key question has been how to make adiamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA in the laboratory as vacuum electromagnetic EM waves cannot penetrate an overdense plasma beyond the relativistic skin depth as described for example by P. Kaw J. Dawson 13 472 1970 . and schematically illustrate a particle in cell PIC simulation that shows that a single ultra intense laser UL pulse I m 10W cm c 2 snowplows but cannot penetrate an overdense n 15n thickness 2 kT 2.6keV ee plasma. The Figures show plots of the magnetic field By ratio of density to critical density n n and longitudinal momentum p mc black dots as shown at vs. x at t 2 5 and at t 2 20 . The slab thickness is substantially greater than the relativistic skin depth at all times. The maximum Lorentz factor 40 at late times.

In contrast the present particle in cell PIC simulations with the 2.5D 2D space 3 momenta ZOHAR code as described by A. B. Langdon B. F. Lasinski . J. Killeen et al. Eds. Academic NY 1976 Vol. 16 p. 327 and C. K.Birdsall A. B. Langdon IOP Bristol UK 1991 demonstrate that DRPA like sustained comoving acceleration can be achieved by irradiating a thin slab of overdense ee plasma with ultra intense laser UL pulses from opposite sides. The opposing ultra intense laser UL pulses first compress the overdense ee plasma to a total thickness where mean Lorentz factor of the compressed overdense ee plasma . The physics of the subsequent evolution after transmission may be similar to that of the diamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA mechanism as described for example by E. Liang K. Nishimura H. Li S. P. Gary 90 085001 2003 E. Liang K. Nishimura Phys. 92 175005 2004 and K. Nishimura E. Liang 11 10 2004 .

It is noted that and and show the evolution of two linearly polarized plane half cycle electromagnetic EM pulses and with parallel B irradiating a thin ee slab from opposite sides. It will b understood that the evolution two pulses with nonparallel B may be more complex. With reference to each incident electromagnetic EM pulse and or compresses and accelerates the ee plasma inward reaching a terminal Lorentz factor 40 as shown in and . Only about 10 of the incident amplitudes may be reflected because the laser reflection front is propagating inward relativistically as described for example by W. L. Kruer E. J. Valeo K. G. Estabrook 35 1076 1975 . As the skin currents from both sides start to merge as shown in the two ultra intense laser UL pulses and interpenetrate and tunnel through the ee plasma despite . Such transmission of electromagnetic EM waves through an overdense ee plasma can not be achieved using a single ultra intense laser UL pulse because there the plasma thickness remains 2 relativistic skin depths.

During transmission the B fields of the opposing pulses and add while E fields cancel as shown in setting up a state similar to the diamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA initial state and the subsequent evolution may resemble that of the diamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA as described for example by E. Liang K. Nishimura H. Li S. P. Gary 90 085001 2003 E. Liang K. Nishimura 92 175005 2004 and K. Nishimura E. Liang 11 10 2004 . As the transmitted ultra intense laser UL pulses and reemerge from the overdense ee plasma they induce new drift currents J at the trailing edge of the pulses as shown in with opposite signs to the initial currents as shown in and so that the new J B forces accelerate the surface plasma outward. It is noted that plasma loading which slows the transmitted ultra intense laser UL pulses and plays an important role in sustaining this comoving acceleration.

A parameter study shows that for a given the higher the ee plasma density the more sustained is the comoving acceleration and a larger fraction of the plasma slab is accelerated. This unique feature may distinguish such an overdense scheme from the underdense schemes such as Laser Wake Field Acceleration LWFA Plasma Wake Field Acceleration PWFA Plasma Beat Wave Acceleration PBWA which are described for example by E. Esarey P. Sprangle J. Krall A. Ting IEEE Trans. Plasma Sci. 24 252 1996 P. Sprangle E. Esary A. Ting 64 2011 1990 V. Malka in 611 p. 303 Ed. M. Lontano et al. AIP NY 2002 A. Pukhov J. Meyer ter Vehn 79 2686 1997 T. Tajima and J. M. Dawson 43 267 1979 and Free Wave Acceleration FWA which is described for example by M. S. Hussein M. P. Pato A. K. Kerman 46 3562 1992 M. S. Hussein M. P. Pato 68 1992 S. Kawata T. Maruyama H. Watanabe I. Takahashi 66 2072 1991 J. G. Woodworth M. N. Kreisler A. K. Kerman 378 Ed. T. Tajima AIP NY 1996 . As slower particles gradually dephase from the ultra intense laser UL pulses and the plasma loading decreases with time. This leads to continuous acceleration of both the ultra intense laser UL pulses and and the dwindling population of fast particles. The phase plot evolution of this colliding pulses accelerator CPA as shown in may resemble that of the diamagnetic relativistic pulse accelerator DRPA described for example by E. Liang K. Nishimura H. Li S. P. Gary 90 085001 2003 E. Liang K. Nishimura 92 175005 2004 and K. Nishimura E. Liang 11 10 2004 .

It will be understood that the use of half cycle pulses as ultra intense laser UL pulses and is only exemplary Any suitable pulse shapes e.g. Gaussian pulse trains can be used for producing relativistic particles in accordance with the principles of the present invention. and show for example simulation results of two Gaussian pulse trains 1 m I 10W cm c 85fs irradiating an ee plasma n 9n thickness 2 kT 2.6 keV . shows early magnetic field Band density ratio n nprofiles at t 0 and shows a plot of log p mc vs. logx for the right moving pulse at t 180 as shown at at t 400 as shown at at t 800 as shown at at t 1600 as shown at at t 2400 as shown at at t 4000 as shown at and at t 4800 as shown at . The profiles exhibit power law growth of t. shows detailed profiles of the left moving pulse at t 4800 for p 10000 black dots as shown at B 100 as shown at and n n as shown at vs. x. The profiles indicate that the back half of the ultra intense laser UL pulse has mostly decayed with its energy having been transferred to the particles. shows the evolution of the logarithm of the electron energy distribution log vs. log exhibiting the build up of power law behavior below with slope 1 at t 180 as shown at at t 400 as shown at at t 800 as shown at at t 2400 as shown at and at t 4800 as shown at where slope 1 means an equal number of particles per decade of energy.

Parameter studies of colliding pulses accelerator CPA have been conducted. and schematically illustrate a comparison of the logarithm of the electron energy distribution log vs. log at equal times when a single input parameter is varied. shows the result of varying the magnitude of the vector potential for a 1.9 19 and 190 at t 2 22.5. shows the result of varying the pulse length for c 2 4 7 and 26 at t 2 22.5. shows the results of varying the ratio of the density to the critical density for n n 9 25 and0.001 at t 4800. shows the plot of vs. p p at t 4800 for the Gaussian pulse trains irradiation simulation shown in and . The plot shows strong energy angle selectivity and narrow beaming of the most energetic particles.

The parameter studies of the colliding pulses accelerator CPA recognize that is not the only figure of merit for comparing acceleration efficiency The parameter studies for example compared the overall particle energy distributions at equal times for different parameter combinations. For example shows the effects of varying vector potential awhile fixing other parameters. Both the power law slope and increase with a. shows the effect of increasing the pulse length while fixing other parameters. The Figures show that at first increases and the power law slope stays approximately constant but for very long pulses becomes fixed while the slope hardens. shows the effect of varying the target density n while fixing other parameters. For comparison the also include the result of an underdense example n 10nbottom curve as shown at . While all three parameter variation cases produce similar the underdense example shows a smaller fraction of particles being accelerated because the plasma loading is too low to effectively slow down the ultra intense laser UL pulses and . The physics of the underdense CPA may be related to the physics of the free wave accelerator FWA in which an opposing laser substitutes for the symmetry breaking electrostatic magnetostatic field as described for example by M. S. Hussein M. P. Pato A. K. Kerman 46 3562 1992 M. S. Hussein M. P. Pato 68 1992 S. Kawata T. Maruyama H. Watanabe I. Takahashi . 66 2072 1991 J. G. Woodworth M. N. Kreisler A. K. Kerman . p. 378 Ed. T. Tajima AIP NY 1996 However as shows the overdense colliding pulses accelerator CPA is more effective than the FWA in terms of energy coupling and the fraction of plasma accelerated. shows the energy angle dependence for the Gaussian pulse trains irradiation simulation shown in and indicating that the most energetic particles are narrowly beamed providing excellent energy angle selectivity for potential applications.

It is noted that CPA and alternate embodiments of the colliding pulse accelerator require a dense and intense ee plasma source. Such plasma sources are practical. For example T. E. Cowan et al. 17 773 1999 T. E. Cowan et al. . 84 903 2000 have demonstrated that such an ee source may be achieved by using a petawatt PW laser striking a gold foil . Further theoretical work described for example by E. P. Liang S. C. Wilks M. Tabak . 81 4887 1998 B. Shen J. Meyer ter Vehn 65 016405 2001 suggest that ee plasma densities n 10cmmay be achieved with sufficient laser fluence. Such a high density ee plasma jet may be slit collimated e.g. by collimators to produce a thin slab of an ee plasma about a micron thick which can be subject to 2 sided irradiation with opposite ultra intense laser UL pulses and .

It is further noted that CPA and alternate embodiments of the colliding pulse accelerator require intense radiation pulse source. Such intense radiation pulse source are practical. For example CPA may use ultra intense laser UL pulses and with 80fs and intensity 10Wcm. Further a focal spot diameter D 600 m may be used so that the ee pairs remain inside the beam for 1 ps. This requirement translates into about 1KJ energy per ultra intense laser UL pulse and . Such high energy ultra intense lasers ULs are under construction at several sites as described for example by the T. Ditmire Ed. UT Austin 2003 .

It is noted that various properties and features of the colliding particle accelerators and methods for production of relativistic particles described herein may be based on 2.5D simulations of ee plasma slabs . It may be expected that 3D simulation results will confirm the stability and robustness of the colliding pulses accelerators and methods described herein. Further the colliding particle accelerators and methods for production of relativistic particles are not restricted to ee plasmas but can be used with e ion plasmas. For very thin e ion plasma slabs which can be compressed to 

It will be understood that the particular embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are illustrative only and that the present invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no construction or design limitations are intended by the details of construction or design described herein other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular illustrative embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the present invention. In particular every range of values e.g. of the form from about a to about b or equivalently from approximately a to b or equivalently from approximately a b disclosed herein is to be understood as referring to the power set the set of all subsets of the respective range of values in the sense of Georg Cantor. Accordingly the protection sought herein is as set forth in the claims below.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art such changes are encompassed within the spirit of this present invention as defined by the appended claims.

