---

title: System and method for selectively displaying web page elements
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for selectively displaying content corresponding to web page elements. A web page element can comprise one or more DIV tags that may be used to encapsulate and identify other elements and information. The first name and the first address of the element are stored. In a receiving operation, a display request to visibly display the element, is received. A received display request identifies the first name or the first address, or both, of the element. In response to receiving the display request, content associated with the first address, and at least a portion of the content comprising the identified element are retrieved. The content to obtain the identified element is parsed, and the identified element is subsequently displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08347225&OS=08347225&RS=08347225
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08347225
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070926
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

As the Internet grows in both complexity and popularity the need for effective systems interfaces and methods for interacting with the Internet have increased. As a result of the Internet s growth many Internet users are confronted with websites that permit access to hundreds if not thousands of web pages files documents and other types of information. In many cases Internet content may be so voluminous that it cannot fit on a single display device. Thus it is becoming increasingly difficult for Internet users to interact with and display information from the Internet.

In response to this difficulty many Internet applications and interfaces now incorporate one or more scroll bars or sliders whereby Internet users may manipulate an input device and move through the body of text or other Internet content. Some Internet applications and interfaces may also provide navigational controls e.g. page up or page down references that may permit Internet users to navigate to different portions of a single or related set of web pages. Other Internet applications and interfaces may employ other types of controls including but not limited to supplying links to popular Internet content e.g. Table of Contents Products Shopping Cart or Store Locator web pages or sections of a web page to help Internet users navigate Internet content.

Despite these and similar measures to improve user interaction with the Internet Internet users regularly navigate away from the web pages or portions of web pages that contain navigational controls. Internet users who navigate away from navigational controls may waste valuable time returning to the navigational controls or forget that such controls are available. In many cases Internet users that are confronted with a vast amount of web page content may be required to use a navigational control that dynamically changes its properties e.g. appearance and scroll speed in response to the amount of web page content. In these cases Internet users may not recognize the changed properties or they may find that changing properties frustrate them In yet other cases navigational controls may only permit navigation to web pages or portions of web page that are of no interest to the Internet user. In still other cases Internet applications and interfaces designed to surmount these problems make it increasingly difficult for advertisers and other business persons to present a persistent ad presence to Internet users who may for example use a navigational control that inadvertently leads the Internet user away from advertising content.

Against this backdrop systems and methods have been developed for displaying content. More specifically systems and methods have been developed for selectively displaying content corresponding to elements associated with a name.

In one embodiment which embodiment is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive a method is provided. The method includes identifying an element of content to be visibly displayed the element having a first name and a first address. The method further includes storing the first name and the first address. The method yet further includes receiving a display request to visibly display the identified element. The method still further includes in response to receiving the display request retrieving content associated with the first address at least a portion of the content comprising the identified element. The method further includes parsing the content to obtain the identified element.

In one aspect the method further comprises displaying the identified element. In another aspect of the method the step of displaying the identified element is performed by a browser program. In yet another aspect of the method the step of displaying the identified element is performed by a client program. In still another aspect of the method the step of displaying the identified element occurs in accordance with stored user preferences. In another aspect of the method the step of displaying the identified element occurs within a defined display region. In yet another aspect of the method the defined display region is a borderless window. In still another aspect the method further includes adjusting at least one property of the display region. In another aspect of the method the at least one property adjusts a dimension of the display region. In yet another aspect of the method the at least one property adjusts the display region s opacity.

In one aspect of the method the steps of identifying an element of content to be visibly displayed the element having a first name and a first address storing the first name and the first address receiving a display request to visibly display the identified element retrieving content associated with the first address in response to receiving the display request at least a portion of the content comprising the identified element and parsing the content to obtain the identified element are performed at a client. In another aspect of the method the steps of identifying an element of content to be visibly displayed the element having a first name and a first address storing the first name and the first address receiving a display request to visibly display the identified element retrieving content associated with the first address in response to receiving the display request at least a portion of the content comprising the identified element and parsing the content to obtain the identified element are performed at a server.

In another aspect of the method the step of identifying an element of content to be visibly displayed occurs prior to performing the step of retrieving in response to receiving the display request content associated with the first address at least a portion of the content comprising the identified element. In yet another aspect of the method the step of identifying an element of content to be visibly displayed occurs while performing the step of retrieving content associated with the first address in response to receiving the display request at least a portion of the content comprising the identified element. In still another aspect of the method either or both of the first name and the first address are stored on a server. In another aspect of the method the display request identifies either or both of the first name or the first address. In yet another aspect of the method the first address is a URI. In still another aspect of the method the content associated with the URI takes the form of a web page. In another aspect the method includes associating a second address with the element as an alternate for the first address. In yet another aspect of the method the display request utilizes either the first address or the second address. In another aspect the method includes receiving input from a user representing a selection of at least a portion of the content and identifying the element based upon the selection. In yet another aspect of the method one instance of the first name associated with the element is stored on a client computing device. In still another aspect of the method a second instance of the first name and the first address associated with the element are stored on a server computing device.

These and various other features as well as advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. Additional features are set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the described embodiments. The benefits and features will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

As set forth in the embodiment shown a GUI may also include a browser program . In one embodiment a browser program is a software application e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Opera Netscape Explorer or Apple Safari that enables a user to access render and interact with text images and other information typically located on a web page at a website on the Internet or a local area network. In one embodiment a browser program is comprised of instructions and data residing on computing device. In another embodiment browser program may be comprised of one or more instructions and or data that may reside on multiple computing devices that may be networked. In one embodiment a browser program is operable to transmit information to and or from other programs and or computing devices. In one embodiment a browser program may include various elements and controls including but not limited to a scroll bar a title bar a status bar and an address field . One skilled in the art will recognize that browser program may take many forms comprise various other functionality and may rely upon one or more other programs that may reside at local i.e. client and or remote i.e. server computing device locations.

In one embodiment a browser program may communicate with computing devices e.g. computing devices including communications modules using various application layer network protocols including but not limited to the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . One skilled in the art will recognize that a browser program may utilize many other type of network protocols including but not limited to the transmission control protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP . HTTP is commonly used by a browser program as a communications protocol to access network resources such as Uniform Resource Identifiers URI . URIs may be comprised of a compact string of characters used to identify or name a resource and typically enable interaction with representations of the resource over a network typically the Internet. A URI may be classified as a locator or a name or both. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is a URI that in addition to identifying a resource typically describing its primary access mechanism e.g. using the schema ftp a URL may indicate a network resource accessible by the FTP network protocol or network location. Similarly a Uniform Resource Name URN is a URI that identifies a resource by name in a particular namespace i.e. a collection of names or identifiers where the names or identifiers of the collection are unique . The combination of HTTP and URI protocols commonly permit a browser program to access render and interact with a web page.

As used in this disclosure as well as the appended figures and claims a web page is comprised of information that may be rendered for display in a browser window of a browser program . Information that is rendered for display in a browser window may include but is not limited to text images animations video sound streaming media and other types of content and or data. Information that is rendered for display in a browser window may also include information that does not change i.e. static information and or information that changes i.e. dynamic information . Static information and dynamic information may include computer executable instructions for instructing a browser program how to render the information as a web page in a browser window . For example using PHP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP or Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Ajax a server may provide dynamic information that instructs a browser program how to display a web page in response to changing user inputs. One skilled in the art will recognize that a web page may take many forms and may rely upon one or more other programs that may reside at local i.e. client and or remote i.e. server locations.

In one embodiment a web page may be comprised of information that conforms to one or more markup languages. Markup languages typically provide a set of codes that are embedded within the information received by a browser program and that instruct a browser program how to display the information as a web page . Hyper text markup language HTML is the markup language typically used for displaying a web page . HTML is typically identified in the HTTP protocol using the Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME content type. In addition to HTML a web page may also include other markup languages such as the Extensible Markup Language XML or the Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML .

In one embodiment the information used for displaying a web page including but not limited to embedded markup language information may comprise one or more elements i.e. web page elements . For example where HTML is used for rendering a web page a web page element may be comprised of one or more tags the content or data contained between the tags and tag attributes. In one embodiment a tag may be a markup language code that identifies an element in a document e.g. a heading or a paragraph for the purpose of formatting indexing and or linking information in the document. In another embodiment a tag may be comprised of two pairs of angled brackets that are placed before and after certain information e.g. in HTML the pair of and tags indicates that information contained within the tags should be italicized .

In one embodiment elements may be encapsulated i.e. to treat a collection of information that may include multiple elements as a single element or nested. For example an element may be comprised of one or more tags that may be used to encapsulate and identify other elements and information. Further to this example a set of elements e.g. web page elements such as buttons images and text including but not limited to the underlying but not displayed markup language codes associated with the elements may be grouped together using a collective element e.g. a tag . In this embodiment an element may identify a collection of displayed and or undisplayed elements associated with a display region element e.g. a bounded two dimensional area of a web page . For example a user may use a cursor to select a display region element e.g. a element that may identify a collection of other web page elements e.g. web page elements on a web page . One skilled in the art will recognize that the collection may be identified by a name an address or other information. As another example a user may select one or more web page elements e.g. web page elements that may be identified as a collection by another web page element e.g. a element . One skilled in the art will recognize that collections of elements may be identified defined and grouped in other ways that are also within the scope of this disclosure. One skilled in the art will also recognize that web page elements may be associated with other information including computer executable instructions e.g. a web page element comprising an interactive image may change its display dimensions upon selection by a user . One skilled in the art will further recognize that web page elements may or may not be visible on a web page . One skilled in the art will also recognize that elements may be identified by various computing devices including but not limited to computing devices connected or distributed via a network.

As set forth in the embodiment shown a web page may include many types of web page elements including but not limited to a textual web page element an audio web page element a media web page element an image web page element and web page button elements . One skilled in the art will recognize that web page as set forth in the embodiment shown may be further comprised of web page elements that are not displayed in a rendered web page . For example a rendered web page may also include markup language information that describes metadata e.g. search terms associated with the web page . As another example a rendered web page may also include web page elements that control the font and display characteristics of textual web page elements .

As further illustrated in the elements within a second display region element may change. For example in response to entering username and password information in text field elements and selecting the Sign In command button element the second display region element may correspond to an encapsulated mail account element e.g. a named Mail that itself corresponds to a user s mail account. Further to this example a mail account element may be associated with an address such as a URL corresponding to the user s mail account. Additionally elements may change in response to changes in other elements. For example changes to a child element e.g. signing in to a user mail account using elements within the display region element may result in changes to a parent element e.g. adding a Sign Out command button element to web page element .

In the method an element of content to be visibly displayed where the element has a first name and a first address is identified in an identifying operation . In one aspect the first name of the element may identify at least one of a logical collection of elements. In another aspect either or both of the first name and the first address of the element may be stored on a server. In one aspect the first address of the element may be a URI. For example the URI may be associated with content that takes the form of a web page e.g. content at a URL . For example an element may identify content at an address i.e. URL in the form of a web page that includes many other elements in addition to the element associated with a name and the address. Following this example the step of identifying the element may comprise reading the web page markup language to identify the part of the web page and or the content that corresponds to the element s name. As yet another example an element s name may correspond to the entire web page associated with the address of the element. In another aspect of the method one instance of a first name associated with the element may be stored at a client computing device and another instance of the first name may be stored at a server. In this manner access to the content associated with the element s address may be obtained irrespective of whether a display request originates from the client computing device or the server computing device. In another aspect one instance of either or both of the first name and the first address of the element may be stored on a client. In yet another aspect a second instance of either or both of the first name and the first address of the element may be stored on a server.

In a storing operation of the method the first name and the first address of the element is stored. For example a unique name or identifier e.g. a number may be stored that references or represents the element. The element s first name and first address may be stored on a client or a server or a combination thereof In a receiving operation a display request to visibly display the element is received. In one aspect of a receiving operation the display request identifies the first name or the first address or both of the element. For example where the display request is transmitted from a client computing device to a server computing device the display request may include the name associated with the element the address associated with the element or both. Where an element has two or more addresses associated with the element the display request may identify the two or more addresses or an address other than the first address of the element. In one embodiment the method may further comprise receiving input from a user representing a selection of at least a portion i.e. any part up to and including the whole of the content and identifying the element based upon the selection. By way of example a display request may include selection of an element or an area of a web page using an input device e.g. a mouse or keyboard selecting a web page element within a display region that encapsulates other web page elements e.g. a web page element such as a banner or image may declare itself to be the selectable display region of a first web page or selecting a web page element referencing a certain selectable display region. In another embodiment the display of another web page in a browser window may itself form display request e.g. a display event that triggers the retrieval of the content associated with an element for display in a browser window. Similarly in another aspect of the method a notification may be received e.g. a notifying event that another web page element has changed. This notification may result in a display request that requests updating the web page with the content associated with the element.

In response to receiving the display request content associated with the first address is retrieved in a retrieving operation . At least a portion of the content retrieved in retrieving operation comprises the identified element. For example in the case of retrieving a web page including but not limited to its underlying markup language instructions more content than is associated with the element s name may be retrieved in retrieving operation . Thus where a DIV element is set forth within a web page retrieving operation may retrieve the content associated with the DIV element as well as other content.

In an analyzing operation the content is then analyzed to obtain the identified element. In one embodiment of analyzing operation analyzing the content comprises parsing or breaking the content into smaller chunks whereby a program e.g. a browser program can act upon the content and obtain the content corresponding to the first name the first address or both of the element. For example a browser program may parse one or more web page elements of a web page to identify a first element for display. In another embodiment of analyzing operation analyzing the content comprises interacting with a document object model DOM or intermediate script to obtain the identified element. For example a browser may interpret the content to create a DOM. An application programming interface API for the DOM may then be utilized to request the identity e.g. the name of the element. Further to this example the identified element e.g. the name of the element may be returned for display. Display of the identified element may then further utilize the API for example by displaying the element corresponding to the name. The display of the identified element may further utilize the API so as to display the element beginning at its top left corner e.g. coordinates for the element that are returned via the API and sizing the display to a certain height and width e.g. the element s height and width . In one aspect of the method the content may include computer executable instructions and the step of analyzing may comprise processing the computer executable instructions and identifying the portion of the content corresponding to the first name. In another aspect of the method the first name of the element may itself identify a logical collection of elements. In this aspect the step of analyzing may comprise identifying at least one of the logical collection of elements. For example each of a collection of elements may be identified by an alphanumeric value associated with each of the elements. Further to this example the step of analyzing may comprise identifying the alphanumeric value representing the collection of elements.

In a displaying operation of the method the identified element is displayed. In one aspect of displaying operation a browser program displays the identified element. In another aspect of displaying operation the identified element is displayed by a client program. In still another aspect of displaying operation display of the identified element occurs in accordance with stored user preferences. In another aspect of displaying operation display of the identified element occurs within a defined display region. The defined display region may be a borderless window. In another aspect the method further includes adjusting at least one property of the display region. Adjusting a display region property may include but is not limited to adjusting a dimension or the opacity or both of a display region. In one aspect a browser program may display the portion of the content corresponding to the first name of the element. For example a browser program may display the portion of content within a bordered or borderless window i.e. displaying the portion of content in what is seemingly a separate application window . In another aspect a client program may display the portion of the content corresponding to the first name. For example a client program e.g. a Java applet or a word processor may itself render markup language information for display within some area. One skilled in the art will recognize that the client program may take many forms including but not limited to client programs utilizing an application programming interface API that may interface with a browser program. In yet another aspect where identified element identifies a logical collection of elements the step of displaying may comprise displaying the logical collection of elements. As an example where an element identifies an encapsulated collection of elements display of the named element may comprise displaying all of the encapsulated elements. In yet another embodiment of displaying operation display region properties may also include but are not limited to instructions or other information that may alter the appearance and or other display properties or characteristics of the content. For example display region properties may include instructions for launching and displaying content within a particular program e.g. a client program for instance a browser program . As another example display region properties may include information specifying the size and or position of the region e.g. a display window where content is displayed. In one aspect of the method displaying the identified element may include applying the display region properties only to the content corresponding to the element s first name. Further this example display properties specifying the size position and layout of the content associated with an element s name may be applied to the content. In one embodiment display preferences may be received from a user of a client computing device. For example a user of a client computing device may save personalized display properties that may be applied to displayed content in a user customized manner. As another example a content provider e.g. a server computing device may transmit predetermined display properties to a client computing device. One skilled in the art will further recognize that display region properties may include but are not limited to information that describes or commands adjusting the height width or location of a browser window e.g. in response to updating a web page .

In another embodiment of the method identifying operation storing operation receiving operation retrieving operation and parsing operation may be performed at a client a server or some combination or permutation thereof One skilled in the art will recognize that certain operations as identified above may precede certain other steps. By way of example and not of limitation identifying operation may occur prior to or during the performance of retrieving operation .

In yet another embodiment of method a second amount of content corresponding to a second element may be identified. For example in response to receiving a second amount of content one or more display region properties may be adjusted. For example where the first amount of content comprises a sign on screen a display region may be resized to accommodate the second amount of content that may comprise user account information e.g. mail personalized news etc. . As another example display of the second amount of content may result in changing the position of the display region within a display. Where the first amount of content comprises a sign on screen centered within the display the second amount of content may comprise a news ticker that is displayed in a lower portion of the display. In one aspect of the method user interactions with the first amount of content may influence the display of the second amount of content.

In other embodiments one or more of the above referenced methods may comprise a computer readable medium encoding or containing computer executable instructions for performing a method for displaying a web page element. By way of example and not limitation a computer readable medium may comprise computer storage media i.e. storage modules and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the methods and systems of the present disclosure may be implemented in many manners and as such are not to be limited by the foregoing exemplary embodiments and examples. In other words functional elements being performed by a single or multiple components in various combinations of hardware and software or firmware and individual functions can be distributed among software applications at either the client or server level or both. In this regard any number of the features of the different embodiments described herein may be combined into single or multiple embodiments and alternate embodiments having fewer than or more than all of the features herein described are possible. Functionality may also be in whole or in part distributed among multiple components in manners now known or to become known. Thus myriad software hardware firmware combinations are possible in achieving the functions features interfaces and preferences described herein. Moreover the scope of the present disclosure covers conventionally known manners for carrying out the described features and functions and interfaces and those variations and modifications that may be made to the hardware or software or firmware components described herein as would be understood by those skilled in the art now and hereafter.

While various embodiments have been described for purposes of this disclosure various changes and modifications may be made which are well within the scope of the present invention. For example a web page displayed in a browser window may include other elements and content than web page elements and or Internet content. As another example a browser program may include computer executable instructions for executing a separate program for identifying a selected or preselected web page element. In still yet another example the browser program may comprise a subroutine of a larger process or program e.g. as discussed above the browser program may be part of a word processing program or the browser program may share computer executable instructions with other programs.

Numerous other changes may be made which will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are encompassed in the spirit of the invention disclosed and as defined in the appended claims.

