---

title: Multiple network connections
abstract: The invention provides a method, an apparatus, and a computer program for supporting multiple connections to a network or a plurality of networks. Support for multiple connections is enabled by establishing a connection of a first type to a network, receiving a request for a connection of the first type, registering a virtual connection as a response to receiving said request, receiving a request for establishing a connection of a second type through the virtual connection, associating the virtual connection with the connection of the first type, and establishing the connection of the second type through the connection of the first type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08422466&OS=08422466&RS=08422466
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08422466
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20071126
---
The present invention relates in general to multiple network connections and in particular though not exclusively to supporting applications multiple connections to a network or a plurality of networks.

Presently mobile devices are capable of connecting to application services via a plurality of access networks and technologies. For example a mobile device may support voice and or data communication via second generation 2G second and a half generation 2.5G and third generation 3G mobile communication networks such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS as well as via short range radio access networks such as Wireless Local Area Network WLAN and Bluetooth . Some mobile devices are also capable of running multiple voice and or data connections in parallel such that a mobile device may have a plurality of active connections open via a number of access networks.

A prevailing way of effecting data communication in today s data communication networks is by means of a packet switched scheme e.g. by using the protocols of the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocol family. The packet switched scheme is becoming commonplace also in voice communication where voice data is carried in data packets over a packet switched network such as an IP network.

If an application run e.g. on a mobile device is to send data to and receive data from a server application that is running on a server located e.g. in an operator s core network or the Internet a data communication session needs to be established between the mobile device and the server. Establishing a data communication session typically requires setup and configuration of transmission services on a number of layers of the OSI model wherein some of the transmission services may be connection oriented services and others connectionless services. For example if a web browser of a mobile device is requested to retrieve the content of a web page from a web server via a WLAN access network a data link layer connection layer 2 or L2 connection needs to be set up through the WLAN access network and configured accordingly.

If a plurality of applications are running on a mobile device such that several applications are connected to network services e.g. to a web service or email service multiple network access connections may be required. In some mobile devices an application establishes L2 connections by using suitable means such as by an Application Programming Interface API through which the application directly instructs set up and configuration of an L2 connection or the setup and configuration of L2 connections are controlled by the operating system of the mobile device.

In order to reduce power consumption a mobile device may initially be in a state where it is not attached to any network. A network attachment occurs when an L2 connection to a radio access network is initiated. This means that the properties of the network and services available to the mobile device are not known prior to initiating the first L2 connection.

Presently multiple connections to an access network are implemented as multiple single connections. This means that if e.g. an application on a mobile device establishes two data communication connections through an access network L2 connections are established for both data communication connections and L3 connections layer 3 or network layer connections are directed through the L2 connections respectively. The mobile device may also establish said L2 connections even though data transmission has not yet started i.e. the application may initiate the L2 connections to be assigned to the L3 connections later when a need for data transmission arises.

Access to a particular service may require a connection via a certain network. For example access to a company s intranet may require a VPN Virtual Private Network connection in the form of IPSec IP Security Architecture tunneling between a communication device and an access gateway of the company s network and some networks may not allow IPSec tunneling. Some of the networks available to the communication device may also meet a user s preferences such as those pertaining to communication costs better than other networks. In such situations a user of the communication device may have to choose which network to use i.e. the user may have to choose to which network an application establishes an L2 connection.

Mobile devices are typically also capable of roaming. For example a mobile device that supports WLAN and GPRS may be able to migrate a data communication connection from a WLAN to a GPRS network and vice versa. When migrating a connection from one access network to another which a mobile device has not accessed earlier the mobile device may encounter a situation essentially similar to that the mobile device encounters when initiating the first connection after a state where the mobile device is not attached to a network. In other words properties of the target network and services available to the mobile device are not known prior to migrating the connection.

The present invention aims at addressing particularly but not exclusively the issues discussed above. According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method which comprises establishing a connection of a first type to a network receiving a request for a connection of the first type registering a virtual connection as a response to receiving said request receiving a request for establishing a connection of a second type through the virtual connection associating the virtual connection with the connection of the first type and establishing the connection of the second type through the connection of the first type.

According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus comprising a communication interface unit configured to operate at least one communication connection and a processing unit configured to establish through the communication interface unit a connection of a first type to a network to receive a request for a connection of the first type to register a virtual connection as a response to receiving said request to receive a request for establishing a connection of a second type through the virtual connection to associate the virtual connection with the connection of the first type and to establish the connection of the second type through the connection of the first type.

According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a computer program product stored on a computer readable medium wherein the computer program comprises program code operable to be loaded into the memory of and executed on a computing apparatus the program code having been configured to enable when executed the computing apparatus to establish a connection of a first type to a network to receive a request for a connection of the first type to register a virtual connection as a response to receiving said request to receive a request for establishing a connection of a second type through the virtual connection to associate the virtual connection with the connection of the first type and to establish the connection of the second type through the connection of the first type.

According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus comprising means for operating at least one communication connection means for establishing the connection of a first type to a network means for receiving a request for a connection of the first type means for registering a virtual connection as a response to receiving said request means for receiving a request for establishing a connection of a second type through the virtual connection means for associating the virtual connection with the connection of the first type and means for establishing the connection of the second type through the connection of the first type.

The method the apparatus and the computer program product may be used to establish communication connections by using virtual connections. Applications may establish or cause to be established virtual connections which may be mapped to real connections on which data sent and received by the applications is carried.

Various exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described in dependent claims appended hereto. These embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated only with reference to certain aspects of the invention. It should be appreciated that corresponding embodiments may apply to other aspects as well.

The application is also configured to initiate L2 connections directly by using a suitable API. For example in the case of a Symbian operating system the application requests L2 and L3 connections through RConnection and RSocket APIs respectively.

As shown in according to the state of the art the application establishes or causes to be established separate L2 connections for each communication connection the application activates. The application has activated two connections to the first network and one connection to the second network . For these connections the application has two L2 connections at least through the access network of the first network and runs an L3 connection through each of the L2 connections . The application has one L2 connection at least through the access network of the second network and runs an L3 connection through the L2 connection . As is seen in the two connections to the first network are effected as two single connections.

As described hereinbefore the real L2 connection may be initiated by the application or a connection management system. The real L2 connection may be initiated prior to registering the virtual L2 connection or after said registration. The virtual L2 connection is associated with an available real L2 connection by means of e.g. a connection table maintained by a connection management system. A real L2 connection suitable for the application may become available as a result of establishing a new real L2 connection or migrating an old L2 connection to a new network which meets the requirements of the application .

The L2 connection may be used to investigate properties of and services available in the network as will be described further hereinafter.

As an example the application may be a web browser and the network may represent e.g. a radio access network such as WLAN or GPRS. The L2 connection represents a layer 2 connection to said radio access network. The L3 connection may be e.g. a layer 3 service such as IP session.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an example of a method according to an embodiment of the invention. In step a request for an L2 connection is received. The object of the request may be a real or a virtual L2 connection. In step a virtual L2 connection is registered as a response to receiving said request. In step an L2 connection is established. The L2 connection may be established such that it conforms to at least a portion of predetermined criteria . In step the virtual L2 connection is mapped to the L2 connection. Said mapping may be controlled by an application that initiated the request for the L2 connection. In step an L3 connection which is requested such that it uses the virtual L2 connection is established and directed through the L2 connection.

The predetermined criteria controlling the establishment of the L2 connection in step may be determined by a communication profile. The communication profile may comprise a default profile a user profile or a profile defined by a network operator or any combination of said profiles or portions thereof. A network operator may modify the operator defined profile e.g. by means of configuration commands sent via the network. If needed the network operator may also modify the default profile and or the user profile in a similar manner. Any of said profiles or portions thereof may also be provided by the operator e.g. on a SIM Subscriber Identity Module card a Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM or a corresponding memory or smart card.

The predetermined criteria used in step may be for example connection quality such as radio link quality and available L3 Quality of Service QoS availability of security features such as IPSec IP Security Architecture tunneling communication costs and access to other networks. In an embodiment the connection quality is determined in terms of e.g. bit frame error rate available bit and or symbol rate transmission power packet loss rate transmission delay jitter or any combination thereof.

If a second request for a L2 connection is received according to step a second virtual L2 connection may be registered according to step and the second virtual L2 connection may also be mapped to the L2 connection according to step . The second virtual L2 connection may be mapped to the L2 connection when the L2 connection corresponds to the second request for an L2 connection. For example the second virtual L2 connection may be mapped to the L2 connection in case of the L2 connection meeting the criteria associated with the requested L2 connection. This second mapping may be controlled by an application that initiated the second request. The object of the second request for an L2 connection may be a real L2 connection or a virtual L2 connection. Mapping of two virtual L2 connections to a common L2 connection results in two applications sharing the common L2 connection. A skilled person appreciates that a number of virtual L2 connections may be mapped to a common L2 connection thus allowing said number of applications to share a common L2 connection.

A second L3 connection may be requested to be established through the second virtual L2 connection. In case of the second virtual L2 connection having been mapped to the L2 connection the second L3 connection may be established and directed through the L2 connection according to step .

In step the L2 connection may be initiated by an application e.g. by means of a suitable API or the L2 connection may be initiated by a connection management system as discussed hereinbefore. In the latter case the connection management system may assign the L2 connection to a particular application or the L2 connection may be available to a number of applications for the purpose of mapping thereto virtual L2 connections registered for said applications. Typically each application has one virtual L2 connection registered for it. The applications may establish L3 connections through the L2 connection by means of the mapping if the L2 connection meets the criteria for the applications L2 and or L3 connections.

Applications may be configured to be in control of the mapping of the virtual L2 connections to real L2 connections such that an application may e.g. decide to which real L2 connection the application s virtual L2 connection is mapped or the application may determine whether to register a virtual L2 connection or initiate a real L2 connection as a response to a request for an L2 connection.

It should be noted that the method steps depicted in are not necessarily carried out in the order shown in the figure. For example establishment of the L2 connection presented in step may also be carried out prior to registering the virtual L2 connection step or receiving the request for an L2 connection step .

Reference is now made to which illustrates a further example of a method according to an embodiment of the invention. The exemplary method of may be utilized e.g. in a situation where a communication apparatus has an active L2 connection or active L2 connections to a network and needs to determine whether another network is suitable for the purpose of migrating the connection s to the other or second network. The communication apparatus may also have active L3 connections through the L2 connection s . In this document an active connection generally refers to a connection that has been initiated and possibly but not necessarily associated with or bound to another connection. The communication apparatus may be for example a mobile device and the first and second network may be for example a WLAN or GPRS network.

In step an L2 connection and or an L3 connection is initiated to the second network which may be e.g. a WLAN or GPRS access network. The second network may be one the properties of which are not known at the time of initiating the L2 and or the L3 connection. The second network may e.g. not have been accessed earlier.

In step properties of the second network are investigated such that at least one feature and or service available in the second network is determined on the basis of information acquired from the second network by using the L2 connection and or the L3 connection. The properties of the second network may be checked against predetermined criteria to be met by the second network and or the L2 or L3 connection.

The at least one feature or service may include e.g. connection quality such as radio link quality and available L3 Quality of Service QoS availability of security features such as IPSec tunneling communication costs and access to other networks through the second network. The connection quality may be determined in terms of e.g. bit frame error rate available bit and or symbol rate transmission power packet loss rate transmission delay jitter or the like.

In step a determination is made as to whether the properties of the second network are such that the second network supports a desired mode of communication. Said determination may include the step of determining whether the second network meets at least a portion of the criteria . For example it may be determined whether the second network supports a desired L3 QoS whether connections to the Internet are allowed by a firewall or whether the second network allows IPSec connections. A portion of the criteria may represent mandatory requirements and another portion may represent optional requirements. The criteria may be determined by a communication profile in a similar manner as described hereinbefore.

If in step it is determined that the second network supports the desired communication mode e.g. meets at least a portion of the criteria active L2 and L3 connection s may be migrated to the second network in step . In case the determination in step concludes that the second network does not support the desired communication mode active connection s are maintained in the original network step .

As an example the L2 and possibly the L3 connection to the second network may be established and owned by a connection management system of the communication apparatus. The connection may be used by the communication management system to investigate the L2 and L3 properties of the second network. If an existing L2 connection is migrated to the second network step of the L2 connection to the second network that is established by the communication management system may be utilized in the migration process. For example the connection management system may change the status of the L2 connection to the second network from a system owned connection to an application owned connection and assign the connection to an application either directly or via a virtual L2 connection registered for the application. The application and or the connection management system may then redirect an existing L3 connection through the L2 connection assigned to the application. Alternatively the application and or the connection management system may have to disconnect an existing L3 connection that was using an L2 connection to the original network and establish a new L3 connection that is directed through the L2 connection once the migration of the L2 connection to the second network has been completed.

Reference is now made to which outlines the structure of an apparatus on which embodiments of the invention may be implemented. The apparatus may be for example a communication apparatus such as a mobile phone a mobile device a user equipment a personal computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA or the like.

The apparatus may comprise a communication interface unit a processing unit a memory unit and a user interface controller . The processing unit is coupled to the communication interface unit the memory unit and the user interface controller . also shows a network access computer program which may be stored in the memory unit as well as loaded into and executed in the processing unit . The network access computer program is explained in detail hereinafter with reference to .

The communication interface unit may be e.g. a radio interface module such as a WLAN Bluetooth GSM GPRS CDMA or WCDMA radio module or a wired interface module such as a LAN interface module. The communication interface unit may be integrated into the apparatus or into an adapter card or the like that may be inserted into a suitable slot or port of the apparatus . The communication interface unit may support one radio or wired interface technology or a plurality of technologies. shows one communication interface unit but the apparatus may comprise a plurality of communication interface units .

The processing unit may be e.g. a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP a graphics processing unit or the like. shows one processing unit but the apparatus may comprise a plurality of processing units. The apparatus may e.g. comprise a baseband processor and a multimedia processor.

The memory unit may be for example a non volatile or a volatile memory such as a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM a random access memory RAM a flash memory a data disk an optical storage a magnetic storage a memory or smart card such as a SIM or USIM card or the like. The apparatus may comprise a plurality of memory units . The memory unit may be formed as a part of the apparatus or it may be inserted into a slot port or the like of the apparatus by a user. The memory unit may serve the sole purpose of storing data or it may be effected as a part of a device serving other purposes such as processing data.

The user interface controller coupled to the processing unit may comprise circuitry for receiving input from a user of the apparatus e.g. via a keyboard graphical user interface shown on the display of the apparatus speech recognition circuitry or an accessory device such as a headset and for providing output to the user via e.g. a graphical user interface or a loudspeaker.

A skilled person appreciates that in addition to the devices shown in the apparatus may comprise other devices such as microphones displays as well as additional circuitry such as input output I O circuitry memory chips application specific integrated circuits ASIC processing circuitry for specific purposes such as source coder decoder circuitry channel coding decoding circuitry cipher decipher circuitry and the like.

Reference is now made to which shows an example of a network access computer program according to an embodiment of the invention. The network access computer program is described herein by using the ESock program package of Symbian as an example where applicable.

The network access computer program when executed on a communication apparatus may be part of the apparatus connection management system for example in the form of a process that enables establishment of communication connections for applications. For example the ESock program package when running on a communication apparatus may effect a socket server that provides socket based communication for applications.

The network access computer program may comprise an application programming interface API arranged e.g. to receive requests from applications. For example the ESock program package comprises RConnection and RSocket APIs through which an application may request establishment of L2 and L3 connections respectively.

The network access computer program may further comprise an L2 connection processing module L2 CPM an L3 connection processing module L3 CPM and a network interface management module NIM . For example the ESock program package comprises Connection Provider for processing L2 connections Protocol Stack for processing L3 connections and Network Interface Manager Nifman module for managing layer 2 interfaces.

The L2 connection processing module may further comprise a mobility management module MM for e.g. managing the maintenance and migration of a communication apparatus L2 connections and a L2 connection control module L2 CC for controlling creation and removal of L2 connections. For example the Connection Provider module of ESock program package comprises Mobility Policy Manager representing the mobility management module and Bearer Manager module representing the L2 connection control module .

The network interface management module may further comprise a network interface configuration module NIC for creation of L2 connections by initiating a network agent and setting configuration parameters with respect to each L2 connection. The configuration parameters may comprise e.g. IP configuration parameters such as a device gateway and name server IP address associated with an L2 connection. For example the Nifman module of ESock comprises Network Interface NIF module corresponding to the network interface configuration module .

An embodiment of the invention is now described with references to and by using the ESock program package of Symbian as an example where applicable.

An application running on the apparatus may request initiation of an L2 connection by using the API of the network access computer program for example the RConnection API of the ESock. The application may request the L2 connection e.g. as a response to a user of the application initiating a request for retrieval of the content of a web page either from the internet or from a company intranet by using a web browser. The application may request a real L2 connection or a virtual L2 connection.

The L2 connection request is received by the network access computer program which may forward the request for processing to the connection processing module . The connection processing module may register a virtual L2 connection as a response to receiving and processing said request. The registration may be effected e.g. by the mobility management module creating an entry for the virtual L2 connection in a table of a database. The table or the database may be stored in the memory unit . The mobility management module may register a virtual L2 connection for the application even though the application requests a real L2 connection. The mobility management module may notify the application via the network access computer program of the registration of the virtual L2 connection once the registration has been completed.

The L2 connection control module may request the network interface configuration module to initiate and configure an L2 connection to a suitable network. For example if a user of a web browser has requested retrieval of a web page content from the internet the L2 connection control module may request the network interface configuration module to establish and configure an L2 connection to a public WLAN hotspot which may provide internet connectivity at a low cost or free of charge. The configuration of the L2 connection may include requesting IP configuration parameters from a IP configuration server such as a DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol server a Mobile IP server or a HIP Host Identity Protocol server.

The selection of the network to which the L2 connection control module requests the network interface configuration module to establish the L2 connection may be controlled by the mobility management module . The mobility management module may select the network on the basis of preferences determined by a communication profile in a manner described hereinbefore. The mobility management module may retrieve the communication profile or portions thereof from the memory unit or the communication profile or portions thereof may be provided to the mobility management module by an application requesting establishment of an L2 connection. The application may provide the communication profile e.g. as a part or in conjunction with the request through the API .

As another example a user of a web browser may have requested retrieval of a web page from a server residing in a company intranet and access to the company intranet may require establishment of a virtual private network VPN connection e.g. an IPSec tunnel to the access gateway of the company intranet. In such a case the mobility management module may not be able to select an available public WLAN hotspot for the L2 connection if the WLAN hotspot does not allow IPSec tunneling. The mobility management module may then instruct the L2 connection control module to establish the L2 connection to a mobile operator s GPRS network for example through which establishment of an IPSec tunnel is allowed. The mobility management module may keep a record of active L2 connections and their properties.

Once the virtual L2 connection has been registered for the application the application may request initiation of an L3 connection through the virtual L2 connection to a target address. The application may have been notified by e.g. the mobility management module of the registration of the virtual L2 connection. The application may request the L3 connection e.g. by using the API of the network access computer program . The application may include in the request or provide otherwise to the network access computer program an identification of the virtual L2 connection registered for the application. The application may also provide to the network access computer program an access group identifier which may be in association with a particular L2 interface.

The L3 connection request is received by the network access computer program . Once the network access computer program has received the L3 connection request it may request from the mobility management module an identifier of a real L2 connection through which the L3 connection will be directed. The request may include the identifier of the virtual L2 connection registered for the application and the access group identifier. The mobility management module may then check if there are active L2 connections corresponding to the application s requirements and or the access group. The mobility management module may identify the application by using the virtual L2 connection identifier associated with the virtual L2 connection registered for the application. The application s requirements may be determined by a communication profile in a manner described hereinbefore.

If there is an active real L2 connection that corresponds to the application s requirements and the access group the mobility management module may associate the real L2 connection with the application s virtual L2 connection e.g. by means of a table or database entry and may send an identifier of the real L2 connection to the network access computer program . If there are no such active real L2 connections available the mobility management module may initiate creation of a suitable real L2 connection in a manner described hereinbefore. Once the creation of the real L2 connection is complete the mobility management module may associate the real L2 connection to the virtual L2 connection registered for the application and send the identifier of the real L2 connection to the network access computer program .

Once the network access computer program has received the identifier of the real L2 connection it may send to the L3 connection processing module a request for initiation of an L3 connection for the application. The request may comprise the identifier of the real L2 connection. The L3 connection processing module may register an L3 connection for the application and return an identifier of the L3 connection to the network access computer program . The network access computer program may then forward the identifier of the L3 connection to the application in a response to the application s request for establishing the L3 connection.

The mobility management module may modify a communication profile associated with an application according to configuration commands received by e.g. the network access computer program from a network via the communication interface unit .

The mobility management module may associate a real L2 connection with virtual connections of plurality of applications. Thus a plurality of applications may use a single real L2 connection by means of a virtual L2 connections registered for the applications such that an application s virtual L2 connection is associated with the real L2 connection in case of the real L2 connection meeting the criteria for the application s L2 and or L3 connection. When an application has its virtual L2 connection associated with the real L2 connection the application may establish an L3 connection through the real L2 connection.

For example when a web browser accesses a public web service such as a web search engine the web browser may initiate a virtual L2 connection which may then be associated with a real L2 connection established through a public WLAN hotspot and an L3 connection may then be established through the real L2 connection by using the association. If another instance of the web browser accesses another public web service the other instance of the web browser may initiate another virtual L2 connection which is also associated with the real L2 connection to the public WLAN hotspot and an L3 connection of the other instance of the web browser may be established through the common real L2 connection. In other words in a scenario where two or more applications have substantially similar criteria for an L2 and or L3 connection the applications respective virtual L2 connections may be associated with a common real L2 connection and thus the applications may share a common real L2 connection.

On the other hand the other web browser instance may access e.g. the web service of a bank and require a secure connection such as an IPSec connection to the web service. In this case the web browser instance may also initiate a virtual L2 connection but the virtual L2 connection may not be associated with a real L2 connection to a public WLAN hotspot if the WLAN hotspot does not allow secure connections. In this scenario a new real L2 connection may be initiated through another access network for example an operator WLAN which allows secure connections and the web browser instance s virtual L2 connection may be associated with the new real L2 connection. Alternatively the real L2 connection established to the public WLAN hotspot may be migrated in a manner described hereinafter to a network that allows secure connections. After said migration the virtual L2 connection of the web browser instance that accesses the web bank may be associated with the migrated real L2 connection.

In an embodiment an application may control with which real L2 connection the application s virtual L2 connection is associated. The application may include in a request for an L2 connection an identifier of the desired real L2 connection.

The mobility management module may initiate creation of a system owned real L2 connection to a new network in a manner described hereinbefore for the purpose of investigating the new network s properties. The mobility management module may also request from the L3 connection processing module establishment of an L3 connection through the system owned L2 connection. The request may include an identifier of the system owned real L2 connection. The mobility management module may then determine on the basis of discovered properties of the new network whether the new network corresponds to the requirements of an application having an active L3 connection through a real L2 connection to another network. If the new network meets the requirements of the application the mobility management module may initiate migration of the real L2 connection from the other network to the new network. The mobility management module may instruct the L2 connection control module to request from the network interface configuration module removal of the old L2 connection and creation and configuration of a new L2 connection to the new network. The mobility management module may then update the association of the application s virtual L2 connection and notify the application of the migration. The L3 connection processing module may have to disconnect and re establish the application s L3 connection through the new real L2 connection.

The foregoing description has provided by way of non limiting examples of particular implementations and embodiments of the invention a full and informative description of the best mode presently contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the invention. It is however clear to a person skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted to details of the embodiments presented above but that it can be implemented in other embodiments using equivalent means without deviating from the characteristics of the invention.

Furthermore some of the features of the above disclosed embodiments of this invention may be used to advantage without the corresponding use of other features. As such the foregoing description shall be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the present invention and not in limitation thereof. Hence the scope of the invention is only restricted by the appended patent claims.

