---

title: Integration of external location engine using switch
abstract: An RF switch is provided. The RF switch includes a processor adapted for communication with an external location engine. The processor is configured to receive notification regarding a status of a wireless asset, receive a plurality of input variables associated with the wireless asset, determine whether the wireless asset is associated with the external location engine, and if the wireless asset is associated with the external location engine, query the external location engine for location data associated with the wireless asset.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07983212&OS=07983212&RS=07983212
owner: Symbol Technologies, Inc.
number: 07983212
owner_city: Holtsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
The present invention generally relates to radio frequency RF devices and more particularly relates to a method and system for the integration of external location engines into a network using a switch.

Radio frequency RF devices such as switches access points ports and radio frequency identification RFID systems are becoming more commonplace in today s society. These RF devices increasingly utilize a variety of RF technologies such as the emerging Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX standard or the Zigbee communications standard based on the 802.15.4 specification . Additionally an increasing number of devices use radio frequency identification RFID or the 802.11 family of specifications.

RF devices are generally associated with one or more networks. Such networks use switching devices among other components to route data from one location to another. As RF devices proliferate it is increasingly desirable to be able to locate such devices using network components like switches that are compatible with a wide variety of RF technologies standards and protocols.

In one embodiment by way of example only an RF switch is provided. The RF switch includes a processor adapted for communication with an external location engine. The processor is configured to receive notification regarding a status of a wireless asset receive a plurality of input variables associated with the wireless asset determine whether the wireless asset is associated with the external location engine and if the wireless asset is associated with the external location engine query the external location engine for location data associated with the wireless asset.

In another embodiment again by way of example only a system is provided for facilitating communication between an RF switch and an external location engine. The system comprises means for receiving notification from a network resource regarding a status of a wireless asset means for receiving a plurality of input variables associated with the wireless asset from the network resource means for determining whether the wireless asset is associated with the external location engine and means for querying the external location engine for location data associated with the wireless asset if the wireless asset is associated with the external location engine.

The following description and claimed subject matter relates to an apparatus system and computer program product for facilitating communication between an RF switch an external location engine and a variety of differing RF devices wireless assets . In this regard the following detailed description is merely illustrative in nature and is not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention or the application and uses of such embodiments. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding technical field background brief summary or the following detailed description.

Embodiments of the invention may be described herein in terms of functional and or logical block components and various processing steps. For example an embodiment of the invention may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements digital signal processing elements logic elements look up tables or the like that may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in conjunction with any number of data transmission and data formatting protocols and that the system described herein is merely one example embodiment of the invention.

For the sake of brevity conventional techniques related to signal processing data transmission signaling network control the 802.11 family of specifications wireless networks RFID systems and specifications and other functional aspects of the systems and the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent example functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in an embodiment of the invention.

The following description refers to elements or nodes or features being connected or coupled together. As used herein unless expressly stated otherwise connected means that one element node feature is directly joined to or directly communicates with another element node feature and not necessarily mechanically. Likewise unless expressly stated otherwise coupled means that one element node feature is directly or indirectly joined to or directly or indirectly communicates with another element node feature and not necessarily mechanically. The term exemplary is used in the sense of example rather than model. Although the figures may depict example arrangements of elements additional intervening elements devices features or components may be present in an embodiment of the invention.

In the following description an apparatus system and computer program product is presented for facilitating communication between an RF switch an external location engine and a number of wireless assets. Location engines may be hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and firmware that use a variety of methodologies to locate an associated wireless asset. For example the Texas Instruments TI CC2431 location engine is designed to be compatible with the Zigbee specification. The TI location engine incorporates a processor that calculates a location of an associated wireless asset based on a location algorithm using so called Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI values.

As one skilled in the art will appreciate however a variety of location technologies including so called Angle of Arrival AOA Time Difference of Arrival TDOA and Time of Arrival TOA may be also utilized in location engines. A variety of differing wireless assets may coexist in a single location such as a floor plan. Again such assets may be associated with a variety of differing RF technologies including the technologies standards and specifications described previously. A group of wireless assets sharing a technology such as Zigbee may be associated with a location engine. For example the TI engine discussed above may have the capability of locating all Zigbee wireless assets within its range.

In a location where a variety of wireless assets are positioned a network component such as an RF switch may be deployed according to the description below to efficiently facilitate communication between the wireless assets and other network components. RF switches can be thought of as network switches which are used to connect wireless portions of networks. As will be further described such an RF switch may be configured to be modular in design and compatible with open standards. For example applications operational on the switch component may interact using standard based interfaces such as Automatic Link Establishment ALE versions 1.0 and or 1.1. In another example RF devices such as RFID readers may interact with the switch using standard based interfaces such as the Low Level Reader Protocol LLRP .

The switch can be configured to be third party friendly. For example the switch may provide infrastructure for loadable modules software or firmware for RF devices and applications. The switch may be configured to be scalable and adaptable for large or smaller sites with a variety of wireless assets. Finally the switch may be configured to be extendible and adaptable designed for minimum disruption to already deployed infrastructures particularly in the case of newer RF technologies.

In light of the foregoing the switch may be configured as will be further described to support a wide variety of wireless assets. These include passive tags providing fixed reader support passive tags providing mobile reader support active tags such as 802.11 tags semi passive active and sensor tags and wireless assets compatible with such standards as the aforementioned WiMAX.

As will be further described the switch may leverage a processor such as an onboard location engine depending upon the respective implementation to provide locationing information for certain wireless assets. The location engine may be integrated into the switch itself. In addition at least one adapter may couple the location engine to an external location engine. The switch may include a variety of hardware and software interfaces that allow the various wireless assets to be configured depending upon the asset. Finally a variety of operational and control techniques may be implemented in accordance with the switch to facilitate the locationing of various wireless assets as discussed below.

Wireless next generation operating system WING infrastructure services provides a common infrastructure and operating system OS services layer across all platforms of the switch . The WING layer refers in the abstract to various details of a specific switch hardware platform. WING includes infrastructure and configuration management functionality for the operation of the switch . A reader network server RNS integrated into the switch acts as a nerve center for data and applications from each of a variety of wireless assets.

A virtualization core normalizes the wireless assets of a particular site. Through software hardware firmware or a combination thereof the virtualization core enables the switch to view and communicate with all wireless assets found in the site. The core allows for a common interface for all applications. A series of enterprise applications e.g. enterprise applications and provide data through a series of enterprise services programming interface ESPI adapters e.g. adapters and to the core . These enterprise applications may be specific to a particular type of wireless asset. In one embodiment a respective enterprise application is dedicated to a respective interface. For example application may be dedicated to adapter to provide data through the interface to from the switch . An ESPI manager serves as a controller managing the transfer of data between the core and various applications.

A series of RFID readers e.g. RFID reader and in communication with RFID tag wireless assets provide data through a series of adaptive reader programming interface ARPI adapters e.g. adapters and to the core . An ARPI manager serves as a controller managing the transfer of data between the core and various RFID readers.

Specific wireless assets may be associated with various manufacturers. One manufacturer may have an associated external location engine . Additionally another manufacturer may have an associated external location engine . In other words external location engine may originate from a different source than external location engine . These external location engines may be used to perform a site survey and locationing of related wireless assets affiliated with the particular manufacturer.

External location engines are coupled through a location engine LE adapter e.g. adapters and to the switch . In the depicted embodiment switch incorporates an onboard location engine . Adapters and are thereby coupled to location engine . Location engine LE provides an open platform for supporting new architectures future algorithms or newer RF asset types. LE provides a standard way of communicating with external premium location engines and . The LE adapters and encapsulate any proprietary details for external engines and provide data to LE using the standard method called LE application programming interfaces APIs .

Each external location engine e.g. LE and deals with a particular RF asset. The intricacies for a particular RF asset are hidden within the LE adapter for a respective external location engine. As a result LE does not need to change to support a particular type of RF asset. With the development of new LE adapters adhering to published standards such as the aforementioned LE APIs any RF asset can be integrated with RF switch . Location Engine allows for configuration of an external location engine. This configuration is propagated to the external location engine using LE adapters. Location specific data such as x y z coordinates and time of read data including any opaque data from RF assets is communicated to LE from LE adapters and .

Location engine may provide locationing of a particular wireless asset or may leverage external wireless assets for location data that is then in turn provided to the core . In this way the switch can communicate with and manage a variety of wireless assets in a particular site.

Location engine may make use of a combination of mathematical algorithms to determine a location of a wireless asset based on the asset type. The engine may fuse the location information reported by several technologies into a seamless environment interpreted by the switch to integrate the various technologies.

Location engine may be configured again through software hardware firmware or a combination thereof to determine the location of various types of wireless assets such as passive tags semi passive tags active tags e.g. ultra wide band UWB 802.11 RFID etc. wireless stations and other wireless devices. LE may use of a combination of various algorithms to determine location based on asset type and fuse the location information reported by several technologies into one seamless environment to get more meaningful results. LE may use a combination of input variables to calculate the location of the asset. These input variables may include facility layout barrier information runtime RF environment changes smart surroundings previous position of the asset and business rules. LE can implement a self learning process that minimizes the training phase and automatically adapts with the changing environment.

The engine may leverage information such as the data obtained from RFID readers and to provide a more accurate location of passive tags. For example the passive tags may be read by the RFID readers and who provide antenna direction location data of the tag. The switch then may combine this antenna direction location data with 802.11 location data of the RFID readers as determined by the switch. The combined data provides increased resolution of an asset location.

As will be further described enterprise applications may provide the RF switch including engine and or core with data regarding a particular site such as a facility map a location of various portions of infrastructure or a so called zone. A zone may refer to an area that is of specific interest to a user with respect to whenever an asset becomes visible or invisible in that area.

The RF switch then may configure location specifications relating to the particular asset or group of assets. The RF switch may then report the configuration information through an industry standard interface such as ALE to a user. In calculating a location of an asset the RF switch may use a variety of input variables applicable to the specific asset. These input variables may include training data or a user configuration RSSI propagation based on facility layout or RF barriers the presence of fixed wireless devices such as printers price verifiers so called near me tags as preinstalled in the facility the respective runtime RF environment of the site a previous position of the asset or locationing parameters such as TDoA or AoA. Again the RF switch and related internal components may also leverage external location data supplied by the external location engines and .

To illustrate the flexibility of the RF switch in various network implementations a series of exemplary network configurations is presently described. illustrates an exemplary network configuration that includes wireless assets from a particular manufacturer. RF switch is shown coupled to an enterprise local area network LAN . A series of wired servers are coupled to the LAN . An RFID enterprise application is operational on server and shown coupled to the wired servers and LAN . Enterprise application on server may include portions of software that executes on wired servers or elsewhere. The application on server interfaces with switch as previously described. An external location engine is coupled to the LAN as well as an access point . Access point receives an RF signal from a number of active tags . Tags as well as location engine and access point may be provided from a single manufacturer or from differing manufacturers.

In addition to the network configuration depicted by and as one skilled in the art will appreciate switch may be configured in a variety of settings wired or wireless in communication with a variety of wireless devices. In addition the adaptability of switch allows for configurations that may utilize a combination of the depicted configurations. In other words several manufacturers of wireless assets including associated technologies may be integrated using the wireless switch.

In a first step method begins step by receiving information such as a notification of a status of a wireless asset such as an active tag step . Such information may be provided using one or more enterprise applications in communication with the switch. The switch may receive information that that the particular asset is now visible. Additional information may also be received in a preliminary matter by the switch such as the aforementioned infrastructure locations facility maps and zones.

As a next step the switch receives at least one applicable input variable associated with the wireless asset step . This input variable can include such variables as training data or configuration data RSSI propagation data based on a facility layout and RF barriers the existence of any fixed wireless devices such as a printer price verifier so called near me tags or other devices the applicable RF environment a previous position of the asset and any applicable rules and location related parameters such as TDoA and ToA parameters associated with the wireless asset.

Method queries whether the particular wireless asset utilizes or is otherwise associated with an external location engine step . If so the method queries the external location engine for any applicable locationing data of the asset step . The data may be provided to the switch via the location engine adapter integrated into the switch.

If the wireless asset is not found to be associated with an external location engine an onboard location engine analyzes the various input variables again such as ToA or TDoA parameters to determine a location of the asset step . Once the location is identified then data representing the location may be passed internally through the switch to one of several possible locations. For example the location data may be passed through the ESPI manager through an ESPI adapter e.g. adapter to an applicable enterprise application e.g. enterprise application . In one embodiment the information may be normalized passed to an enterprise application through an industry standard interface such as the previously described ALE interface. The interface then processes the data into the format compatible with the particular enterprise application where it is then displayed to a user. The user may then use the enterprise application to communicate with the wireless asset such as performing a configuration task.

While at least one exemplary embodiment has been presented in the foregoing detailed description of the invention it should be appreciated that a vast number of variations exist. It should also be appreciated that the exemplary embodiment or exemplary embodiments are only examples and are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. Rather the foregoing detailed description will provide those skilled in the art with a convenient road map for implementing an exemplary embodiment of the invention it being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements described in an exemplary embodiment without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

