---

title: System and method for providing call and chat conferencing
abstract: An approach is disclosed for providing an integrated call and chat conferencing system. A first participant joins in a conference, wherein the first participant communicates over a voice session. The voice session is converted into a text stream and stored. A second participant joins in the conference, wherein the second participant communicates over a chat session. The stored converted text stream is presented to second participant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08755506&OS=08755506&RS=08755506
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08755506
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
Conferencing systems play a vital role in business operations enabling cost effective and timely exchange of communications over diverse geographic locations. Conventional conferencing systems are largely based on telephony applications. With the emergence of sophisticated data communication applications and the convergence of data and voice systems users are offered a host of methods for communicating. For example instant messaging IM has enjoyed enormous popularity as an effective form for communicating in informal settings. However for business purposes IM applications are still in their infancy particularly with respect to conferencing.

Based on the foregoing there is a clear need for a conferencing system that can integrate voice and data applications.

An apparatus method and software for providing integrated call and chat conference are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various exemplary embodiments. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the various exemplary embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the exemplary embodiments.

Although the various embodiments are described with respect to chat or instant messaging applications it is contemplated that these embodiments have applicability to other equivalent applications.

An instant messaging IM or instant communication system facilitates establishment of instant messaging or chat sessions among users. The IM system process messages such as text messages between endpoints. In this example the endpoints include text only terminals as well as text and voice terminals . The text only terminals according to one embodiment include computing devices include desktop personal computers workstations web appliances personal digital assistants PDAs palm computers etc. without any capability to conduct a voice call but are loaded with IM or other equivalent applications for chatting. The text and voice terminals possess applications that support both voice and IM communications and thus can include e.g. cellular phones desktop personal computers workstations web appliances PDAs palm computers etc.

The IM platform also includes a presence server not shown to determine which terminals and are online. Because of the immediate or instant nature of the communication instant messaging service requires presence information or availability of the users. The terminals and send presence information e.g. presence messages over a data network and a circuit switched network e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN or cellular network to the presence server to indicate state of the terminals and . The data network can be an internetwork that includes the global Internet. This presence information is updated periodically.

As seen a telephony gateway is utilized to process voice sessions from a voice only terminal within the data network or voice calls originating from the circuit switched network by a voice only terminal . The voice only terminal which operates over the data network can be a voice over Internet Protocol IP VoIP terminal while the voice only terminal can be a POTS Plain Old Telephone Service phone for example.

In this example one or more text based terminals and participate in a conference over the integrated call and chat conference platform . Additionally one or more voice only terminals and text and voice terminals participate in the conference via the integrated call and chat conference platform by connecting to the platform over the data network or the PSTN cellular network .

The integrated call and chat conference platform captures voice and text conversations and present this exchange back to the users in the other format. When a user on the voice only terminal for instance talks the voice is converted to text and is presented in the chat conversation for all participants to the conference to view. When a user on the text only terminal chats the text is converted to audio signals and read out to the participants who are using the phone call conference but not present in the text conference. The integrated call and chat conference platform permits at a later stage readily reviewing and conducting actions related to chat or voice conversation.

The value of the integrated call and chat conference platform can be appreciated by considering a typical business scenario. With large multinational companies it is common for companies to incur the cost of sending their employees on business trips to various locations around the world. During this time however these employees may also need to participate in corporate meetings that may be phone based chat based or a combination any of these forms. While attending a chat based meeting all participants of the meeting has access to a text entering device such as a personal computer PC personal digital assistant PDA or any mobile device with text capability. It is essentially not viable for an individual to attend a chat based meeting without access to a text entering device. Similarly it is infeasible for an individual to attend a meeting that is both phone based and chat based using only a phone or using only a text based console as only one form of communication is traditionally supported.

Conventional approaches to conferencing do not provide the ability for the user to participate in voice based conversations if user has joined the conference with text based communication. Similarly for an individual joining the conference with only voice based communication the user will have no means of participating in the text based communication.

The platform additionally addresses the need for storing the voice conversations for later retrieval by chat based users. For a chat user who is joining the conference at a later time the user has no immediate way of finding out what was discussed during the voice based conference session. The only recourse is to obtain such information from a participant which may not be accurate or complete e.g. the participant may only be concerned with a topic that is not relevant to the new participant and vice versa . Also attempting to catch up with the conference can disrupt the other user s participation. Consequently in view of this drawback the platform stores communications sessions both voice based and chat based for subsequent access as more fully described with respect to .

The conference platform also comprises a text to voice converter converting text into speech. When text based communication is received from either the text only terminal or the text and voice terminal the text can be converted into voice via a text to voice converter so that the voice only terminal may be able to gain access to the content of the communication.

Additionally the conference platform also comprises of a voice to text converter that converts speech into text. When voice based communication is received from either the voice only terminal or the text and voice terminal it can be converted into text via the voice to text converter wherein the text only terminal can access to the content of the communication. The text to voice converter and voice to text converter can be implemented using such tools as Microsoft Speech API Application Programming Interface within the conference platform . Placement of these converters and may for example depend on the performance of the platform and the amount of storage available.

It is noted that communication sessions received by the conference platform needs to be converted to another form of communication multiple times decreasing the post communication performance of the system. Depending on the storage capacity of the memory all the messages received can be converted to both voice as well as text for storage using the voice to text converter and text to voice converter respectively. In such an exemplary embodiment this eliminates the need to convert the messages to another form of communication for every usage.

Next another user this time a chat user e.g. terminal enters the conference as in step at a later point in time. In step the platform presents the stored text stream corresponding to the terminal to this chat user on terminal . The chat user can also provide input into the conference by submitting text communication such chat session is converted by the text to voice converter step and stored step . This stored voice signals of the chat user can be presented to the voice caller i.e. terminal step .

The approach described herein has the ability to support both voice and text based communication as well to store voice conversations that have occurred during a meeting. Furthermore the platform has the capacity to convert text to voice and voice to text. The ability to store voice communications in both voice and text form helps individuals joining the conference at a later point in time to hear or read the communication that has occurred. That is all voice conversations that take place during the conference are converted to text for individuals who join the conference using the text only mode. Similarly textual conversations that transpire during the conference are converted to voice for individuals who join the conference using the voice only mode.

The above process enables individuals who join in the conference at a later time to gain access to the history of the text and voice based communications that have occurred during the conference in real time. This also eliminates the communication block that exists between parties who join a conference using the text only mode and those who join in voice only mode.

In the alternative at any point multiple participants can drop in and out of the conference. Therefore to reduce potential delays to delivery of converted media to the participants the conversion of the communication sessions can be processed by the converters and in real time and then stored.

With the above process the entire history of the conference can be accessed by chat users as well as voice calls even though a user enters the conference subsequent to the starting point.

With respect to the chat user the text stream representing the voice call can simply be presented as a transcription of the conference such transcription can be scrolled through on the chat interface.

The above described processes relating to integrated conferencing may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to one embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the exemplary embodiment. Thus exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an exemplary embodiment through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the various exemplary embodiments may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that flow. The specification and the drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

