---

title: Reigniting flame in volatile organic compound device
abstract: Reigniting a flame in a volatile organic compound (VOC) detector in the event that the flame has gone out. In one implementation, a signal is received at a handheld personal computer indicating that a flame in the VOC detector has gone out. The flame in the VOC detector may then be reignited using the handheld personal computer and a Bluetooth enabled device facilitating communication between the handheld personal computer and the VOC detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08034290&OS=08034290&RS=08034290
owner: LDARtools, Inc.
number: 08034290
owner_city: League City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070129
---
Implementations of various technologies described herein are directed to volatile organic compound VOC detection and to various methods and or systems for igniting a flame in a volatile organic compound VOC detector e.g. reigniting a flame that has been extinguished in a volatile organic compound VOC detector.

The following descriptions and examples do not constitute an admission as prior art by virtue of their inclusion within this section.

Industrial plants that handle volatile organic compounds VOCs sometimes experience unwanted emissions of those compounds into the atmosphere from point sources such as smokestacks and non point sources such as valves pumps and or vessels containing the VOCs. Emissions from non point sources typically occur due to leakage of the VOCs from joints and or seals and may be referred to herein as fugitive emissions . Fugitive emissions from control valves typically occur as leakage through the packing set around the valve stem. Control valves used in demanding service conditions involving large temperature fluctuations and frequent movements of the valve stem commonly suffer accelerated deterioration of the valve stem packing set.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency EPA has promulgated regulations specifying maximum permitted leakage of certain hazardous air pollutants such as benzene toluene 1 1 1 trichloroethane from certain hardware or fixtures e.g. control valves. The regulations require facility operators to perform periodic surveys of the emissions from all control valves and pump seals. The survey interval frequency may be monthly quarterly semiannual or annual. If the facility operator can document that a certain percentage of valves and pumps with excessive leakage are below a prescribed minimum the required surveys become less frequent. Thus achieving a low percentage of leaking valves reduces the number of surveys required per year which may result in large cost savings.

Fugitive emissions are typically monitored using a VOC detector which may also be referred to as a vapor analyzer. Due to the location of the control valves and a tendency to jar the VOC detector during operation the flame inside the VOC detector may often go out during detection. When this happens the technician operating the VOC detector may need to reignite the flame e.g. by manually reigniting the flame. Manual reignition has a number of disadvantages including having to unstrap the VOC detector from the back of the technician. If the flame extinguishes while the technician is in the process of climbing up a ladder on a structure e.g. en route to a location where detection will take place then the entire detection process is disrupted and often for safety reasons the technician not only has to stop climbing the ladder but changes direction and goes back down the ladder so that the VOC detector can be safely unstrapped and the flame manually reignited. Accordingly there is an ongoing need for the methods and systems disclosed below.

Described herein are implementations of various technologies for a method for igniting a flame in a volatile organic compound VOC detector. In one implementation the method includes transmitting a first signal to the VOC detector through a wireless device. The signal is configured to ignite a flame in the VOC detector.

In another implementation the method may include receiving a signal at a handheld personal computer indicating that a flame in the VOC detector is extinguished and reigniting the flame in the VOC detector using a wireless device configured to facilitate communication between the handheld personal computer and the VOC detector.

Also described herein are implementations of various technologies for a volatile chemical VOC detection system which may include a VOC detector and a handheld personal computer in communication with the VOC detector. The handheld personal computer may be configured to control an operation of the VOC detector. The VOC detection system may further include a wireless device in communication with the VOC detector and the handheld personal computer. The wireless device may be configured to facilitate communication between the VOC detector and the handheld personal computer.

Still further described herein are implementations of various technologies for a volatile chemical VOC detector which may include a processor and a memory comprising program instructions executable by the processor to receive a first signal indicating that a flame in the VOC detector is extinguished send a first command to a signal inverter to ground port B of the VOC detector for a first predetermined amount of time and apply a first positive voltage to port B once the first predetermined amount of time has lapsed receive a second signal indicating an option to reignite the flame in the VOC detector and send a second command to the signal inverter to ground port C of the VOC detector for a second predetermined amount of time and apply a second positive voltage to port C once the second predetermined amount of time has lapsed.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

The following paragraphs generally describe implementations of various techniques directed to various methods and systems for igniting a flame in a volatile organic compound VOC detector or reigniting a flame that has been extinguished. In one implementation the VOC detection system includes a VOC detector in communication with a handheld personal computer PC a signal inverter coupled to the VOC detector and a Bluetooth enabled device for facilitating communication between the VOC detector and the handheld PC. The Bluetooth enabled device communicates with the handheld PC wirelessly.

In operation when a flame inside the VOC detector extinguishes the VOC detector sends an error message to the handheld PC via the Bluetooth enabled device. In response the technician may send a first command through the handheld PC to the signal inverter. Upon receipt of the first command the signal inverter grounds port B of the VOC detector for a predetermined amount of time and applies a positive voltage after the predetermined amount of time has lapsed. Upon detection that its port B was grounded for the predetermined amount of time and the positive voltage is applied to the port the VOC detector clears the error message and sends an option to reignite the flame to the handheld PC via the Bluetooth enabled device. Upon receipt of this option the technician may then send a second command through the handheld PC to the signal inverter. Upon receipt of the second command the signal inverter grounds port C of the VOC detector for a predetermined amount of time and applies a positive voltage after the predetermined amount of time has lapsed. Upon detecting that port C has been grounded for the predetermined amount of time and the positive voltage is applied to port C the VOC detector reignites the flame. One or more techniques for reigniting a flame in the VOC detector in accordance with various implementations are described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

The signal inverter may be coupled to the VOC detector via cable at port B and via cable at port C. Various cables described herein may be made of copper. However it should be understood that the various cables may be made from other types of material such as fiber optic aluminum and the like. Port D of the VOC detector may be connected to ground.

The VOC detector may further be coupled to a Bluetooth enabled device . As such port A of the VOC detector may be coupled to a transceiver portion of the Bluetooth enabled device via cable . The Bluetooth enabled device is described in more detail in the paragraphs below.

The signal inverter may also be coupled to the Bluetooth enabled device via cable and cable . In one implementation the signal inverter may be a Quadruple Line Receiver available from Texas Instruments headquartered in Dallas Tex. However it should be understood that other implementations may use a signal inverter that may have a different configuration or design and manufactured by companies other than Texas Instruments.

The term Bluetooth enabled device as used herein means any device that is enabled with Bluetooth technology. Bluetooth is a wireless technology that operates in the unlicensed Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM radio band of 2.4 GHz. Bluetooth technology includes a number of protocols that allow Bluetooth enabled devices to operate in a peer to peer environment forming piconets. The Bluetooth protocol and specification may be found in Volumes 1 and 2 Core and Profiles Version 1.1 22 Feb. 2001. The Bluetooth enabled device may be configured to facilitate communication between the VOC detector the signal inverter and a handheld personal computer PC which will be described in more detail in the paragraphs below. The Bluetooth enabled device may include a transceiver and a processor . The processor may be coupled to the transceiver by cable .

The processor may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the processor such as during start up may be stored in the ROM.

The Bluetooth enabled device may be in communication with the handheld PC wirelessly. Although implementations of various technologies are described herein with reference to the Bluetooth enabled device it should be understood that some implementations may use other type of wireless data communication or protocol such as Spread Spectrum Broadband Wi Fi and the like.

The handheld PC may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk. The hard disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface . The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the handheld PC .

The handheld PC may further include computer readable media that may be accessed by the CPU . For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the CPU . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs and a flame reignition program . The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like. The flame reignition program will be described in more detail with reference to in the paragraphs below.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

In response to receiving the error signal the handheld PC may display the error message to the user operator. For example the handheld PC may display WARNING FLAME OUT. In one implementation the same message may be displayed on the screen of the VOC detector .

At time T upon seeing the display the user may send a first command from the handheld PC to the processor through the transceiver wirelessly. The first command may include a first portion and a second portion. In one implementation the first portion and the second portion may be separated by a predetermined time delay e.g. about 1 second to about 3 seconds. Upon receipt of the first portion the processor may send a positive 5 volts signal along cable to the signal inverter which may then apply a zero voltage signal to cable thereby grounding port B of the VOC . A positive voltage is typically applied to port B during operation. In one implementation the signal inverter may ground cable using port D which is connected to ground.

At time T after the predetermined time delay has lapsed upon receipt of the second portion the processor may apply a normal state signal along cable to the signal inverter which may then remove the zero voltage previously applied to cable and apply a positive voltage typically applied to port B during operation.

In this manner the first command may operate as a toggling signal. The first portion may be configured to ground cable while the second portion may be configured to stop the grounding cable and apply an operating voltage to cable . In one implementation the first portion may be ST 0808 and the second portion may be ST 0800.

At time T upon detecting that port B to which cable is connected has been switched to ground for a predetermined amount of time e.g. about 1 second to about 3 seconds and returned to its operating voltage the VOC detector may clear the error message on its screen and display a set of options for addressing the flame out situation on its screen.

One option for addressing the flame out situation is to reignite the flame. As such the VOC detector may send the set of options to the transceiver through cable . The transceiver may then forward the set of options to the handheld PC wirelessly. Alternatively the VOC detector may send only the option to reignite the flame to the transceiver .

At time T upon receipt of an option to reignite the flame the user may wirelessly send a second command from the handheld PC to the processor through the transceiver . The second command may include a first portion and a second portion. The first portion and the second portion may be separated by a predetermined time delay e.g. about 1 second to 3 seconds. Upon receipt of the first portion of the second command the processor may apply a positive 5 volts signal along cable to the signal inverter which may then switch cable to ground. As mentioned above the signal inverter may use port D which is connected to ground to ground cable .

At time T after the predetermined time delay has lapsed upon receipt of the second portion of the second command the processor may apply a normal state signal along cable to the signal inverter which may then remove the zero voltage previously applied to cable and apply a positive voltage typically applied to cable during operation.

In this manner the second command may operate as a toggling signal. The first portion may be configured to ground cable while the second portion may be configured to stop the grounding cable and apply an operating voltage to cable . In one implementation the first portion may be ST 0404 and the second portion may be ST 0400.

Upon detecting that port C to which cable is connected has been switched to ground for the predetermined amount of time e.g. about 1 second to about 3 seconds and returned to its operating voltage the VOC detector may reignite the flame.

Although the commands that control the operation of the VOC detector e.g. for reigniting the flame have been described with reference to the handheld PC it should be understood that in some implementations the commands may be sent from the Bluetooth enabled device . For instance the commands to clear the error message displayed due to the flame having been extinguished may be sent via a switch on the Bluetooth enabled device . The commands to reignite the flame may be sent using the same switch or in combination with another switch on the Bluetooth enabled device .

Although implementations of various technologies described herein are described with reference to a handheld PC it should be understood that some implementations may be operational with other types of computing systems such as laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers personal computers and the like.

The various technologies described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The various technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

