---

title: Single P-N junction tandem photovoltaic device
abstract: A single P-N junction solar cell is provided having two depletion regions for charge separation while allowing the electrons and holes to recombine such that the voltages associated with both depletion regions of the solar cell will add together. The single p-n junction solar cell includes an alloy of either InGaN or InAlN formed on one side of the P-N junction with Si formed on the other side in order to produce characteristics of a two junction (2J) tandem solar cell through only a single P-N junction. A single P-N junction solar cell having tandem solar cell characteristics will achieve power conversion efficiencies exceeding 30%.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08039740&OS=08039740&RS=08039740
owner: RoseStreet Labs Energy, Inc.
number: 08039740
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070713
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 945 281 entitled Single P N Junction Tandem Photovoltaics filed on Jun. 20 2007 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described and claimed herein was made in part utilizing funds supplied by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE AC02 05CH11231. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Solar or photovoltaic cells are semiconductor devices having P N junctions which directly convert radiant energy of sunlight into electrical energy. Conversion of sunlight into electrical energy involves three major processes absorption of sunlight into the semiconductor material generation and separation of positive and negative charges creating a voltage in the solar cell and collection and transfer of the electrical charges through terminals connected to the semiconductor material. A single depletion region for charge separation typically exists in the P N junction of each solar cell.

Current traditional solar cells based on single semiconductor material have an intrinsic efficiency limit of approximately 31 . A primary reason for this limit is that no one material has been found that can perfectly match the broad ranges of solar radiation which has a usable energy in the photon range of approximately 0.4 to 4 eV. Light with energy below the bandgap of the semiconductor will not be absorbed and converted to electrical power. Light with energy above the bandgap will be absorbed but electron hole pairs that are created quickly lose their excess energy above the bandgap in the form of heat. Thus this energy is not available for conversion to electrical power.

Higher efficiencies have been attempted to be achieved by using stacks of solar cells with different band gaps thereby forming a series of solar cells referred to as multijunction cascade or tandem solar cells. Tandem solar cells are the most efficient solar cells currently available. Tandem cells are made by connecting a plurality e.g. two three four etc. P N junction solar cells in series. Tandem cells are typically formed using higher gap materials in the top cell to convert higher energy photons while allowing lower energy photons to pass down to lower gap materials in the stack of solar cells. The bandgaps of the solar cells in the stack are chosen to maximize the efficiency of solar energy conversion where tunnel junctions are used to series connect the cells such that the voltages of the cells sum together. Such multijunction solar cells require numerous layers of materials to be formed in a complex stacked arrangement.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a single P N junction solar cell is provided having multiple regions for charge separation while allowing the electrons and holes to recombine such that the voltages associated with both depletion regions of the solar cell will add together. In one or more embodiments the conduction band edge CBE of a top layer in the solar cell is formed to line up with the valence band edge VBE of a lower layer in the solar cell.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a solar cell is provided having an alloy of either InGaN or InAlN formed on one side of the P N junction with Si formed on the other side in order to produce characteristics of a two junction 2J tandem solar cell through a single P N junction. In one embodiment an InGaN alloy is utilized while in another embodiment InAlN is utilized. A single P N junction solar cell formed in accordance with one or more embodiments will achieve power conversion efficiencies exceeding 30 .

In general the present disclosure includes a single P N junction tandem photovoltaic device. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure will now be discussed with reference to the aforementioned figures wherein like reference numerals refer to like components.

Referring now to a block diagram illustration of a single P N junction tandem solar cell is shown generally in accordance with one or more embodiments. One of the layers and is formed as a p type material while the other of the layers and is formed as an n type material such that a single P N junction exists between the layers and . Each of the layers and can also be described and or formed as its own subcell within the solar cell . In one or more embodiments the conduction band edge CBE of the top layer in the solar cell is formed to line up with the valence band edge VBE of the lower layer in the solar cell . In one embodiment the solar cell includes a layer of a Group III nitride alloy and a Si layer . Electrical contacts and are formed respectively on the top of or otherwise coupled to the Group III nitride alloy layer and on the bottom of or otherwise coupled to the Si layer . In one or more embodiments the top electrical contact should be formed from a substantially transparent conductive material so as to allow solar radiation to travel past the electrical contact to enter into the solar cell such as by forming the contact as Indium Tin Oxide or other suitable substantially transparent conductive material or a grid of other metal layers. The electrical contacts and are formed in accordance with methods known to those skilled in the art of manufacturing solar cells.

In one embodiment the layer is an alloy of InGaN where 0 x 1 having an energy bandgap range of approximately 0.7 eV to 3.4 eV providing a good match to the solar energy spectrum. In another embodiment the layer is an alloy of InAlN where 0 x 1 having an energy bandgap range of approximately 0.7 eV to 6.0 eV also providing a good match to the solar energy spectrum. In one or more embodiments the layer is grown by molecular beam epitaxy creating crystals with low electron concentrations and high electron mobilities while it is understood that other formation methods can further be utilized. For ease of description in the various embodiments described herein the layer will be referred to as InGaN layer while it is understood that InAlN can interchangeably be substituted in place of InGaN in the various embodiments described herein.

In one or more embodiments the InGaN layer is formed as a p type layer by doping the InGaN layer with a p type dopant such as magnesium Mg while a thin Si interface layer is counter doped with a p type dopant such as Boron B Aluminum Al Gallium Ga or Indium In . The rest of the Si layer is formed as an n type layer by doping the Si layer with an n type dopant such as phosphorous P arsenic As or antimony Sb . Typical doping levels for n type and p type layers range from 10cmto 10cm. The actual doping levels depend on other characteristics of the layers and of the solar cell and can be adjusted within and outside of this range to maximize the efficiency. It is understood that the P N junction can also be formed by doping the InGaN layer with an n type dopant and doping the Si layer with a p type dopant. Silicon is commonly used as an n type dopant and magnesium as a p type dopant in InGaN.

As grown undoped InGaN films are generally n type where in one embodiment the InGaN layer can be doped with Mg acceptors so that the InGaN layer behaves as a p type. In one specific embodiment a Mg p type dopant is used in alloy of InGaN where 0.67 y 0.95.

While the P N junction can be simply formed as represented in with an InGaN layer positioned against a Si layer . In actuality a plurality of depletion regions will be formed across the P N junction when the junction is in thermal equilibrium and in a steady state. Electrons and holes will diffuse into regions with lower concentrations of electrons and holes respectively. Thus the excess electrons in the n type Si layer will diffuse into the P side of the P N junction while the excess holes in the p type InGaN layer will diffuse into the N side of the P N junction . As illustrated in this will create an InGaN depletion region in the InGaN layer adjacent to the P N junction and a Si depletion region in the Si layer adjacent to the P N junction .

When the solar cell is exposed to solar energy energy transfers from photons in the solar energy to the solar cell when the layers and absorb lightwaves that contain the same amount of energy as their bandgap. A bandgap is the energy required to push an electron from a material s valence band to its conduction band. Based upon an experimental measurement of a 1.05 0.25 eV valence band offset between InN and GaN and the known electron affinity of GaN InN is predicted to have an electron affinity of 5.8 eV the largest of any known semiconductor. Forming the layer as an alloy of InGaN or InAlN allows a wide bandgap tuning range 0.7 to 3.4 eV for InGaN and 0.7 to 6.0 eV for InAlN.

By aligning the conduction band of one of the layers or with the valence band of the other one of the layers or a low resistance tunnel junction is produced between the layers and . The conduction band edge and valence band edge positions of InGaN and InAlN are illustrated in where the dotted lines and indicate the compositions e.g. approximately InAlN or InGaN that align the conduction band of InGaN and InAlN respectively with the valence band of Si. A composition with slightly more Ga or Al will align the conduction band of InGaN InAlN with the valence band of Ge. As shown in the electron affinity energy position of the conduction band minimum CBM with respect to the vacuum level can also be tuned over a wide range 5.8 eV to 2.1 eV in InAlN and 5.8 eV to 4.2 eV in InGaN. In one embodiment for the composition of approximately AlInN or InGaN the conduction band of AlInN InGaN can be made to align with the valence band of Si creating the conditions for a very low resistance tunnel between the layers and without the requirement of additional heavily doped layers as typically required in previous multijunction solar cells which greatly simplifies the design of the present single junction tandem solar cell over previous multi junction solar cells.

The solar cell having a single P N junction between the p type layer InGaN or InAlN and the n type Si layer provides 1 two depletion regions for charge separation and 2 a junction that allows electrons and holes to recombine such that the voltages generated from the solar energy in both of the layers and will add together. These types of observations have only previously been attainable in multijunction tandem solar cells with tunnel junction layers and never previously attainable using only a single P N junction.

The single p InGaN n Si heterojunction of the solar cell behaves in a fundamentally different manner than a usual P N semiconductor heterojunction. In a normal P N junction holes are depleted on the p type side and electrons are depleted on the n type side creating a single depletion region. However the present p InGaN n Si heterojunction or p InAlN n Si heterojunction formed in accordance with one or more embodiments produces two depletion regions. Under illumination both of these depletion regions can separate charge such that a single p InGaN n Si or p InAlN n Si heterojunction functions as a two junction tandem solar cell. Further at the junction between the layers and there is type inversion excess electrons on the InGaN side of the junction and excess holes on the Si side of the junction thereby creating the InGaN depletion region and the Si depletion region . This type inversion provides a more efficient electron hole annihilation and series connection of the layers and .

For one embodiment having a p type InGaN layer and an n type Si layer the calculated band diagram and electron and hole concentrations for such a p InGaN n Si heterojunction tandem solar cell are respectively illustrated in . The two depletion regions and can be seen in that correspond to depletion regions and shown in . A InGaN bandgap of 1.8 eV was obtained by specifying the composition which is close to the ideal for a top layer matched to a bottom Si layer having a band gap 1.1 eV in terms of maximum power conversion efficiency.

Under illumination photons with energies greater than the 1.8 eV band gap of the InGaN layer create electron hole pairs in the InGaN layer . The Si layer absorbs light with energies between 1.1 and 1.8 eV and light with energy 1.8 eV that is not absorbed by the top InGaN layer . Doping in both of the layers and can be adjusted to change the size of the depletion regions and . Efficient electron and hole recombination occurs at the InGaN Si junction such that under illumination holes will go to the surface of the InGaN layer and electrons will go into the Si layer . A thin 25 nm heavily doped p layer can be used to provide an ohmic contact to the InGaN surface.

The depletion regions and are similar to Schottky like depletion regions found in semiconductor materials such that these two depletion regions and should achieve efficiency of in the solar cell of approximately 42 for unconcentrated sunlight similar to the efficiency achieved by 2J tandem cells.

In one or more embodiments the dark current i.e. the output current of the solar cell when no light is acting as an input can be reduced by heavy counter doping i.e. p counter doping in the n type layer as illustrated in or n counter doping in the p type layer as illustrated in near the interface between at least one of the layers and the respective one of the electrical contacts . This will also increase the open circuit voltage and efficiency of the solar cell . Referring to a band diagram for a p InGaN n Si heterojunction tandem solar cell is illustrated in which n counter doping e.g. a 10 nm layer of n9 10 has been utilized in the p type layer adjacent to electrical contact where line represents CBE eV line represents VBE eV and line represents E.

In one or more embodiments the dark current can be reduced and the open circuit voltage increased through the use of a thin insulating interlayer e.g. a thin layer of GaN formed between the layers and as illustrated in . The interlayer will serve to increase the barrier for hole leakage from the p InGaN layer into the n Si layer while preventing electron leakage from the n Si layer into the p InGaN layer . Referring to a band diagram for a p InGaN n Si heterojunction tandem solar cell is illustrated in which a thin 5 nm GaN interlayer has been utilized between the p InGaN layer and the n Si layer .

Both of the approaches associated with reducing dark current using heavy counter doping or a thin insulating layer illustrated in will increase the barrier against electron and hole leakage by about 0.1 to 0.2 eV compared designs without such features.

In order to form a tandem photovoltaic device using a single P N junction the conduction band minimum CBM in the upper layer of the solar cell is formed to be substantially aligned with or lower in energy with respect to the vacuum level than the valence band maximum VBM of the lower layer of the solar cell . The present disclosure allows a solar cell having the efficiency characteristics of a two junction tandem solar cell to be made with a very simple single P N junction design. By simply forming a p InGaN layer which can be thin 

