---

title: Method and apparatus to speed transmission of CEC commands
abstract: A method and structure for establishing faster transmission of Consumer Electronic Control (CEC) commands between first and second HDMI-compatible devices. The first and second devices may transmit CEC commands via a shared alternate interface, a signaling path distinct from a standard HDMI CEC interface between the first and second devices. Authentication may furthermore be performed prior to use of the alternate interface to confirm that the communication is authorized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429713&OS=08429713&RS=08429713
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08429713
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070402
---
This application is related to application Ser. No. 11 695 477 entitled AUTHENTICATION IN AN AUDIO VISUAL SYSTEM HAVING MULTIPLE SIGNALING PATHS filed even date herewith which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The invention relates generally to digital audio visual communications. More particularly the invention relates to a method and apparatus for improved and speeded transmission of CEC commands between HDMI compatible devices.

High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI is a digital audio visual connector interface capable of transmitting uncompressed and compressed streams and can provide an interface between any compatible digital audio video A V source device herein also referred to as a module such as a set top box STB or set back box SBB a DVD player a PC a video game system an A V receiver and a compatible digital audio and or video monitor device such as a television TV or a digital television DTV . HDMI solves the problem of too many cables in A V systems. Audio visual status and control information may be transmitted via one cable in the system

Consumer Electronic Control CEC is a protocol used to control devices that are attached using HDMI. HDMI such as HDMI 1.2a released in December 2005 supports CEC features command sets and CEC compliance tests. CEC features as may be defined from time to time in the CEC Specification include routing control standby system information and feature abort. Other optional features may include one touch recording deck control tuner control On Screen Display OSD display OSD name transfer device menu control RC pass through power status and vendor specific commands. Of course it is understood that the HDMI specification continues to be enhanced and enlarged and new CEC commands are expected to be added as developed.

Using a single cable CEC control allows a user to control all HDMI devices with a remote control or commander user interface including powering on or off connected devices and generally commands initiated by devices to other devices. It thus solves the problem of too many remote controls or commanders. Consider an example of one touch play. A user can press play on one HDMI device such as a DVD and operation of CEC commands causes the A V receiver to automatically turn on and switch to the correct input which automatically turns on the TV this in turn automatically switches to the correct input received from the A V receiver.

In spite of these advantages the HDMI CEC signal path from device to device is unacceptably slow. The bandwidth associated with the HDMI CEC specification is very low and the delay associated with data transfer rate is long with the transfer rate including ECC buffered memory and checksum approximately 52 bytes per second. This standard CEC signal path of the HDMI connector is half duplex and slow resulting in a sluggish remote control or commander user interface experienced by a user.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail specific embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an example of the principles of the invention and not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments shown and described. In the description below like reference numerals are used to describe the same similar or corresponding parts in the several views of the drawings.

In this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

Reference throughout this document to one embodiment certain embodiments an embodiment or similar terms means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of such phrases or in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments without limitation.

The term or as used herein is to be interpreted as an inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C means any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C . An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention described herein may be comprised of one or more conventional processors and unique stored program instructions that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions described herein. The non processor circuits may include but are not limited to a radio receiver a radio transmitter signal drivers clock circuits power source circuits and user input devices. As such these functions may be interpreted as a method to perform functions such as acquisition of a new policy in accordance with certain embodiments consistent with the present invention. Alternatively some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used. Thus methods and means for these functions have been described herein. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation.

A method and structure operable for establishing faster transmission of Consumer Electronic Control CEC commands between first and second HDMI compatible devices in accordance with various embodiments is described herein. The method includes confirming that the first and second devices share an authorized alternate interface for transmitting CEC commands with the alternate interface being a signaling path distinct from a standard HDMI CEC interface between the first and second devices and then transmitting CEC commands between the first and second devices over the alternate interface. Confirming that the devices actually share the alternate interface will point out problems such as there not being physical connection between the devices via the appropriate cable s .

The alternate interface will be a faster signaling path for the transmittal of CEC commands between the two devices although this is not necessarily required as for instance the alternate interface may be used in conjunction with the standard CEC interface to provide two half duplex communication interfaces in certain embodiments.

Authentication may be used to make sure that certain security and operational concerns are met as will be discussed. Authentication may be used to make sure that the device or devices are permitted to be and actually are in communication via the enhanced alternate interface. Such is the case when the first device for instance is a TV and the second device is a module and authentication requires authenticating the module to verify that it is permitted to be used with the TV. The module may not be confirmed to share the alternate interface with the TV for instance if it cannot return a physical address to the TV indicating for example that it is not connected to the interface . A physical address is a unique number that the module gets from the TV therefore the TV can use it to distinguish the module from other devices. Furthermore the module may not be authenticated if its physical address does not match or otherwise reflect an expected value or its vendor identification does not match that expected by the TV. Again the module may be one or more of a set top box a set back box a DVD player a PC a video game system and an A V receiver.

Also in accordance with certain embodiments CEC commands may be transmitted between first and second devices over a standard HDMI CEC interface and then following confirmation that the first and second devices share an alternate interface for transmitting CEC commands CEC commands may be transmitted between the first and second devices over the alternate interface.

The authorized alternate interface may be an alternate signaling path within a HDMI connector connecting said first and second devices or it may be a USB signaling path. In the case of it being within the HDMI connector the alternate signaling path within the HDMI connector may be an IC data channel of the HDMI connector. After switching over to the IC data channel the standard HDMI CEC interface may no longer be used. The alternate signaling path within the HDMI connector may also be a reserved PIN in the HDMI connector if allowed by the CEC specification. In this instance the alternate interface and the standard HDMI CEC interface may both be used if desired to transmit CEC commands between the first and second devices. In the case of the alternate interface being USB the standard HDMI CEC interface need not be used.

The detailed operation of a module in particular a STB or SBB will be described herein. A module operable to interface with a television in an audio visual system in accordance with certain embodiments will comprise a programmed processor a software segment running on the programmed processor a user interface software segment running on the programmed processor that receives user commands using the software segment and a connector element. The module is operable to transmit CEC commands using an alternate interface coupled to the connector element wherein the alternate interface is a signaling path distinct from a standard HDMI CEC interface. The software segment may be an Internet video player such as Microsoft s Windows media player a DVD player an Internet browser etc.

Referring to a block diagram for an exemplary interactive cable or satellite television TV system is shown. The system includes at a head end of the service provider a media server for providing on demand movies and other programming obtained from a media database . The media server might also provide additional content such as interviews with the actors games advertisements available merchandise associated Web pages interactive games and other related content. The system also includes an electronic programming guide EPG server and a program listing database for generating an EPG. Set top box can generally provide for bidirectional communication over a transmission medium in the case of a cable STB . In other embodiments bidirectional communication can be effected using asymmetrical communication techniques possibly using dual communication media one for the uplink and one for the downlink. In any event the STB can have its own Universal Resource Locator URL or IP address or other unique identifier assigned thereto to provide for addressability by the head end and users of the Internet.

The media server and EPG server are operatively coupled by transmission medium to a set top box STB . The transmission medium may include for example a conventional coaxial cable network a fiber optic cable network telephone system twisted pair a satellite communication system a radio frequency RF system a microwave system other wireless systems a combination of wired and wireless systems or any of a variety of known electronic transmission mediums. In the case of a cable television network transmission medium is commonly realized at the subscriber s premises as a coaxial cable that is connected to a suitable cable connector at the rear panel of the STB . In the case of a Direct Satellite System DSS the STB is often referred to as an Integrated Receiver Decoder IRD . In the case of a DSS system the transmission medium is a satellite transmission at an appropriate microwave band. Such transmissions are typically received by a satellite dish antenna with an integral Low Noise Block LNB that serves as a down converter to convert the signal to a lower frequency for processing by the STB .

The exemplary system further includes a TV such as a digital television having a display for displaying programming an EPG etc. The STB may be coupled to the TV and various other audio visual devices such as audio systems Personal Video Recorders PVRs Video Tape Recorders VTRs Video Cassette Recorders VCRs and the like storage devices e.g. hard disc drives and Internet Appliances such as email devices home appliances storage devices network devices and other Internet Enabled Appliances by an appropriate interface which can be any suitable analog or digital interface. In one embodiment interface conforms to an interface standard such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 standard but could also be wholly or partially supported by a DVI interface Digital Visual Interface Digital Display Working Group www.ddwg.org HDMI or other suitable interface.

The STB may include a central processing unit CPU such as a microprocessor and memory such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory mass storage such as a hard disc drive floppy disc drive optical disc drive or may accommodate other electronic storage media etc. Such memory and storage media is suitable for storing data as well as instructions for programmed processes for execution on the CPU as will be discussed later. Information and programs stored on the electronic storage media or memory may also be transported over any suitable transmission medium such as that illustrated as . STB may include circuitry suitable for audio decoding and processing the decoding of video data compressed in accordance with a compression standard such as the Motion Pictures Experts Group MPEG standard and other processing to form a controller or central hub. Alternatively components of the STB may be incorporated into the TV itself thus eliminating the STB . Further a computer having a tuner device and modem may be equivalently substituted for the TV and STB .

By way of example the STB may be coupled to devices such as a personal computer video cassette recorder camcorder digital camera personal digital assistant and other audio visual or Internet related devices. In addition a data transport architecture such as that set forth by an industry group which includes Sony Corporation and known as the Home Audio Video Interoperability HAVi architecture may be utilized to enable interoperability among devices on a network regardless of the manufacturer of the device. This forms a home network system wherein electronic devices and Internet appliances are compatible with each other. The STB runs an operating system suitable for a home network system such as Sony Corporation s Aperios . real time operating system. Other operating systems could also be used.

The STB includes an infrared IR receiver for receiving IR signals from an input device such as remote control or commander . Alternatively it is noted that many other control communication methods may be utilized besides IR such as wired or wireless radio frequency etc. In addition it can be readily appreciated that the input device may be any device suitable for controlling the STB such as a remote control or commander personal digital assistant laptop computer keyboard or computer mouse. In addition an input device in the form of a control panel located on the TV or the STB can be provided.

The STB may also be coupled to an independent service provider ISP host by a suitable connection including dial up connections DSL Digital Subscriber Line or the same transmission medium described above e.g. using a cable modem to thus provide access to services and content from the ISP and the Internet. The ISP host provides various content to the user that is obtained from a content database . STB may also be used as an Internet access device to obtain information and content from remote servers such as remote server via the Internet using host operating as an Internet portal for example. In certain satellite STB environments the data can be downloaded at very high speed from a satellite link with asymmetrical upload speed from the set top box provided via a dial up or DSL connection.

While the arrangement illustrated in shows a plurality of servers and databases depicted as independent devices any one or more of the servers can operate as server software residing on a single computer. Moreover although not explicitly illustrated the servers may operate in a coordinated manner under centralized or distributed control to provide multiple services as a Multiple Service Operator MSO in a known manner. Additionally the services provided by the servers shown in may actually reside in other locations but from the perspective of the user of STB the service provider serves as a portal to the services shown. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustration of represents a simplified depiction of a cable system configuration shown simply as service provider . The actual configuration of the service provider s equipment is more likely to follow a configuration defined by the CableLabs OpenCable specification. The simplified illustration shown is intended to simplify the discussion of the service provider s operation without unnecessarily burdening the discussion with architectural details that will be evident to those skilled in the art. Those details can be found in the publicly available CableLabs OpenCable specification or in the text OpenCable Architecture Fundamentals by Michael Adams Cisco Press November 1999.

Referring now to a typical system configuration for a digital set top box is illustrated. In this exemplary set top box the transmission medium such as a coaxial cable is coupled by a suitable interface through a diplexer to an in band tuner . Tuner may for example include a broadcast in band tuner for receiving video content. An out of band OOB tuner is provided for receiving data transmissions including ATM formatted SI data. A return path through diplexer provides an OOB return path for outbound data destined for example for the head end . A separate tuner not shown may be provided to receive conventional RF broadcast television channels. Modulated information formatted for example as MPEG 2 information is then demodulated at a demodulator . The demodulated information at the output of demodulator is provided to a demultiplexer and descrambler circuit where the information is separated into discrete channels of programming. The programming is divided into packets each packet bearing an identifier called a Packet ID PID that identifies the packet as containing a particular type of data e.g. audio video data . The demodulator and descrambler circuit also decrypts encrypted information in accordance with a decryption algorithm to prevent unauthorized access to programming content for example.

Audio packets from the demultiplexer those identified with an audio PID are decrypted and forwarded to an audio decoder where they may be converted to analog audio to drive a speaker system e.g. stereo or home theater multiple channel audio systems or other audio system e.g. stereo or home theater multiple channel amplifier and speaker systems or may simply provide decoded audio out at . Video packets from the demultiplexer those identified with a video PID are decrypted and forwarded to a video decoder . In a similar manner data packets from the demultiplexer those identified with a data PID are decrypted and forwarded to a data decoder .

Decoded data packets from data decoder are sent to the set top box s computer system via the system bus . A central processing unit CPU can thus access the decoded data from data decoder via the system bus . Video data decoded by video decoder is passed to a graphics processor which is a computer optimized to processes graphics information rapidly. Graphics processor is particularly useful in processing graphics intensive data associated with Internet browsing gaming and multimedia applications such as those associated with MHEG Multimedia and Hypermedia information coding Experts Group set top box applications. It should be noted however that the function of graphics processor may be unnecessary in some set top box designs having lower capabilities and the function of the graphics processor may be handled by the CPU in some applications where the decoded video is passed directly from the demultiplexer to a video encoder. Graphics processor is also coupled to the system bus and operates under the control of CPU .

Many set top boxes such as STB may incorporate a smart card reader for communicating with a so called smart card often serving as a Conditional Access Module CAM . The CAM typically includes a central processor unit CPU of its own along with associated RAM and ROM memory. Smart card reader is used to couple the system bus of STB to the smart card serving as a CAM not shown . Such smart card based CAMs are conventionally utilized for authentication of the user and authentication of transactions carried out by the user as well as authorization of services and storage of authorized cryptography keys. For example the CAM can be used to provide the key for decoding incoming cryptographic data for content that the CAM determines the user is authorized to receive.

STB can operate in a bidirectional communication mode so that data and other information can be transmitted not only from the system s head end to the end user or from a service provider to the end user of the STB but also from the end user upstream using an out of band channel. In one embodiment such data passes through the system bus to a modulator through the diplexer and out through the transmission medium . This capability is used to provide a mechanism for the STB and or its user to send information to the head end e.g. service requests or changes registration information etc. as well as to provide fast outbound communication with the Internet or other services provided at the head end to the end user.

Set top box may include any of a plurality of I O Input Output interfaces represented by I O interfaces that permit interconnection of I O devices to the set top box . By way of example and not limitation a serial RS 232 port can be provided to enable interconnection to any suitable serial device supported by the STB s internal software. Similarly communication with appropriately compatible devices can be provided via an Ethernet port a USB Universal Serial Bus port an IEEE 1394 so called firewire or i link or IEEE 1394 wide port S video port or infrared port . Such interfaces can be utilized to interconnect the STB with any of a variety of accessory devices such as storage devices audio visual devices gaming devices not shown Internet Appliances etc.

I O interfaces can include a modem be it dial up cable DSL or other technology modem having a modem port to facilitate high speed or alternative access to the Internet or other data communication functions. In one preferred embodiment modem port is that of a DOCSIS Data Over Cable System Interface Specification cable modem to facilitate high speed network access over a cable system and port is appropriately coupled to the transmission medium embodied as a coaxial cable. Thus the STB can carry out bidirectional communication via the DOCSIS cable modem with the STB being identified by a unique IP address. The DOCSIS specification is publicly available.

A PS 2 or other keyboard mouse joystick interface such as can be provided to permit ease of data entry to the STB . Such inputs provide the user with the ability to easily enter data and or navigate using pointing devices. Pointing devices such as a mouse or joystick may be used in gaming applications.

Of course STB also may incorporate basic video outputs that can be used for direct connection to a television set such as instead of or in addition to an IEEE 1394 connection such as that illustrated as . In one embodiment Video output can provide composite video formatted as NTSC National Television System Committee video. In some embodiments the video output can be provided by a direct connection to the graphics processor or the demultiplexer descrambler rather than passing through the system bus as illustrated in the exemplary block diagram. S Video signals from output can be similarly provided without passing through the system bus if desired in other embodiments.

The infrared port can be embodied as an infrared receiver as illustrated in to receive commands from an infrared remote control infrared keyboard or other infrared control device. Although not explicitly shown front panel controls may be used in some embodiments to directly control the operation of the STB through a front panel control interface as one of interfaces . Selected interfaces such as those described above and others can be provided in STB in various combinations as required or desired.

STB will more commonly as time goes on include a disc drive interface and disc drive mass storage for user storage of content and data as well as providing storage of programs operating on CPU . STB may also include floppy disc drives CD ROM drives CD R W drives DVD drives etc. CPU in order to operate as a computer is coupled through the system bus or through a multiple bus architecture to memory . Memory may include a combination any suitable memory technology including Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Flash memory Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM etc.

While the above exemplary system including STB is illustrative of the basic components of a digital set top box suitable for use with the present invention the architecture shown should not be considered limiting since many variations of the hardware configuration are possible without departing from the present invention. The present invention could for example also be implemented in more advanced architectures such as that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 473 625 filed Dec. 29 1999 entitled Internet Set Top Box Having and In Band Tuner and Cable Modem and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 757 909 on Jun. 29 2004 to Jun Maruo and Atsushi Kagami.

This patent describes a set top box using a multiple bus architecture with a high level of encryption between components for added security. This application is hereby incorporated by reference as though disclosed fully herein.

In general during operation of the STB an appropriate operating system such as for example Sony Corporation s Aperios real time operating system is loaded into or is permanently stored in active memory along with the appropriate drivers for communication with the various interfaces. In other embodiments other operating systems such as Microsoft Corporation s Windows CE could be used without departing from the present invention. Along with the operating system and associated drivers the STB usually operates using browser software in active memory or may permanently reside in ROM EEPROM or Flash memory for example. The browser software typically operates as the mechanism for viewing not only web pages on the Internet but also serves as the mechanism for viewing an Electronic Program Guide EPG formatted as an HTML document. The browser can also provide the mechanism for viewing normal programming wherein normal programming is viewed as an HTML video window often occupying the entire area of screen .

STB software architectures vary depending upon the operating system. However in general all such architectures generally include at the lowest layer various hardware interface layers. Next is an operating system layer as previously described. The software architectures of modern STB have generally evolved to include a next layer referred to as middleware. Such middleware permits applications to run on multiple platforms with little regard for the actual operating system in place. Middleware standards are still evolving at this writing but are commonly based upon Javascript and HTML hypertext Markup Language virtual machines. At the top layer is the application layer where user applications and the like reside e.g. browsing email EPG Video On Demand VOD rich multimedia applications pay per view etc. . The current invention can be utilized with any suitable set top box software and hardware architecture.

HDMI 1.2a released in December 2005 supports CEC features command sets and CEC compliance tests. Using a single cable CEC control allows a user to control all HDMI devices with a remote control or commander user interface including powering on or off connected devices commands initiated by devices to other devices. It thus solves the problem of too many remote controls. For instance a user can press play on one HDMI device such as a DVD and operation of CEC commands causes the A V receiver to automatically turn on and switch to the correct input which in turn automatically turns on the TV which automatically switches to the correct input received from the A V receiver such is an example of one touch play. 

CEC features as may be defined from time to time in the CEC Specification Section 3.1 include one touch play system audio control etc. Other optional features may include one touch recording deck control tuner control On Screen Display OSD display OSD name transfer device menu control RC pass through power status and vendor specific commands such as a vendor remote command . CEC control commands that may be particularly of interest in the communication between a STB SBB and TV may include the following request active source image view on text view on standby give physical address get menu language polling message report physical address set menu language device vendor ID give device ID user remote control pressed user control released set OSD string give OSD name set OSD name give device power status report power status feature abort.

Of course it is understood that the HDMI specification continues to mature new CEC commands may be expected to be added from time to time as developed. A standard CEC command structure is illustrated in . This structure may remain the same to provide for back ward compatibility.

As has been described the standard HDMI CEC signal path from device to device is unacceptably slow. This original CEC signal path of the HDMI connector is half duplex and slow resulting in a sluggish remote control or commander user interface. It is known that certain interfaces are much faster than the standard CEC interface with USB USB2 for instance being able to send and receive information in less time than it takes to just transmit in CEC.

In accordance with certain embodiments alternate signaling paths are provided for transmission of CEC commands between HDMI compatible devices such as between a set top box STB or set back box SBB and a television TV or digital television DTV in order to provide faster signaling and a better user experience. Whereas the original CEC signal path of the HDMI connector is half duplex and slow resulting in a sluggish remote control or command user interface alternate signaling paths are relatively faster and thus can provide a better user experience. Various embodiments in which faster signaling may be achieved will be described and include different signaling paths that are used instead of or in addition to the normal HDMI CEC connector data path.

This is illustrated in in which an exemplary system diagram focusing on the transmission of CEC command information between a first HDMI compatible device such as a television and a second HDMI compatible device such as a STB or SBB is shown. In accordance with embodiments of the invention since it is desirable to transmit CEC command information between devices using a faster alternate data signal path there are two communication interfaces or data paths shown. Both Interfaces are capable of transmitting CEC commands but may have differing speed characteristics. Interface may be considered the normal HDMI CEC signal path that is unacceptably slow while Interface is the enhanced faster data transmission path. As will be described Interface may rely upon a faster signal path through the HDMI connector as illustrated in or it may be based upon another protocol entirely such as USB as shown in . Moreover Interface may be used instead of or in addition to the original HDMI CEC Interface . This is illustrated by the dashed X on the standard CEC interface of for example to indicate that the use of the original slower standard CEC interface may or may not continue to be used.

Referring again to the alternate enhanced data signaling path for transmitting CEC commands between devices envisions an alternate signaling path within the HDMI connector itself Since a HDMI interface will continue to be used it may not be necessary to connect a separate cable to facilitate these embodiments. In a first embodiment the IC data channel of the HDMI connector is used as an alternate path. IC is a multi master serial computer bus that may be used to attach peripherals to a motherboard or embedded system and may provide a readily available interface solution for this purpose. IC may be used in regular or high speed mode in the HDMI connector. As an example this interface may be used for a proposed High bandwidth Digital Content Protection HDCP key digital rights management DRM transaction adapted to transfer CEC traffic. In this embodiment the original CEC path shown as the Standard CEC Interface in the figure may be disabled.

In a second embodiment an alternate faster signaling path within the HDMI interface uses a reserved PIN in the HDMI connector and may be used independently of or in addition to the CEC path. Version A of the HDMI connector specifies that Pin for instance is a reserved pin. In this instance the reserved PIN in the HDMI connector may be used as another half duplex signaling path and thus this interface may be used independently of or in addition to the CEC path. The set back module SBB and TV can recognize that they have this signaling capability and can switch to using this additional path through the reserved PIN. In this embodiment the standard CEC interface path may be optionally used. If both interfaces are used a much improved speed for transmission of CEC commands between the devices may be realized.

In a third embodiment USB is used as an alternate path for CEC signaling and as it is not HDMI based the system will require the use of two cables or interfaces one HDMI and the other USB. USB is faster than the original CEC path and can thus be used to increase responsiveness to CEC remote control commands. In this embodiment the original CEC path may be disabled. The same data format used for the CEC interface is used over the USB interface. An exemplary CEC message format over USB might be 

USB including USB2 is a useful interface for sending a variety of information between devices. For instance TCIP is established over USB thus CEC commands are just one of the commands sent over the USB.

The use of the USB as an alternate path or interface for transmitting CEC commands between two devices requires the use of two physical cables as previously noted.

The approach chosen can enhance security making sure that the TV is talking to an approved module a particular concern when multiple modules might be attached to the TV. Not only may the approach taken enhance security consumer protection may be enhanced as well. A module can interface to the television using HDMI and USB. In an exemplary embodiment a television might have as many as four HDMI and USB connectors and it is not uncommon for a user to not properly connect the equipment. Moreover multiple modules might be attached to the TV.

In accordance with the third embodiment consider the following. The ability of a module to interface to the TV using both and USB provides a clear advantage. The protocol may be started with either interface HDMI or USB2 and then continued and or completed with the other interface. However there are security and customer concerns with multiple input systems. A hacker may probe the USB interface using a PC but not drive signals on the HDMI connector. Obviously the greater the number of modules attached to the TV the greater the concern about hacking. In addition to this security concern consider that a mis wiring has occurred a common occurrence when there are many possible ways to connect components such as when multiple modules might be attached to a TV.

Refer to in which an exemplary system having a TV and two module devices Device A and Device B is illustrated. It is necessary to determine whether the HDMI A and USB A interface signaling paths are connected to Device A. If Device A sends the information that is acquired from interface HDMI A then the TV can determine that interface USB A is connected to Device A. The physical address is the information that is acquired from the HDMI connection HDMI A. Suppose that Device A gets physical address 1.0.0.0. from HDMI A connection and sends that address 1.0.0.0. over USB A to the TV. The TV can know that the USB A is connected to Device A. Similarly the Device B gets physical address 2.0.0.0. from HDMI B connection and sends 2.0.0.0. from the HDMI B connection and sends 1.0.0.0. over interface USB B. The TV knows that the USB B is connected to Device B.

It can be seen that this form of authentication using physical addresses overcomes concerns associated with multiple device and multiple interface systems. Both security and consumer protection concerns are addressed.

In order to address these concerns the migration or switching of transmission of a protocol such as CEC commands from the CEC interface to an alternative physical layer or interface such as a reserved pin IC bus or even USB may also occur after authentication of the two devices if desired. Authentication of a device such as a module ensures that it is permitted to be talking to the other device of interest such as the TV. As it is envisioned that a TV may not know which devices or modules are authorized to interface with it authentication addresses this issue. As it is entirely conceivable that a TV may not know whether a module is connected to it authentication discovers such problems so they can be remedied. Moreover authentication provides a mechanism of exercising control of which devices will be authorized to use the communication path. Non authorized devices may be precluded from operating in the transmission of CEC commands in the enhanced manner provided herein.

This would allow enhanced devices capable of starting transmission of a protocol using a first interface and then continuing or completing transmission of the protocol with a second interface to operate amongst non enhanced devices. Once enhanced devices authenticate each other they may negotiate the migration of the CEC commands to an alternative physical layer or interface that both devices have in common so that a faster more efficient transmission of the protocol is realized.

Referring to the sequence diagram of consider an example in which several commands that may be used for authentication purposes are illustrated. It is noted that not all the commands are necessary for authentication as varying degrees of security may be desired. Moreover the sequence diagram of the figure is in the context of switching from the standard HDMI CEC interface to an alternate USB interface.

However it is understood that a similar might be undertaken for any of the other embodiments described herein. Finally the sequence diagram illustrates a TV and a module such as a STB or a SBB as the two devices but again it is within the scope of the present invention to undertake a similar authentication process for other HDMI compatible devices.

The TV starts this sequence on bootup or when the TV recognizes that the device is attached. If the module is connected before the TV boot the module will be recognized. At the TV sends a polling message via the standard CEC interface to the module. At and the physical address and the logical addressing of the SBB are ascertained. At the module can report its physical address to the TV and may provide this without first receiving the physical address of the TV at . If USB insertion is detected then the TV gives its physical address to the module at in preparation for possible migration from the standard CEC interface to a USB alternate interface. The exchange of physical addresses of the devices is one mechanism by which confirmation and also authentication may occur as has been described.

At the TV communicates its device vendor ID to the module via the standard CEC interface and the module provides this information to the TV also over the standard CEC interface at as shown. This vendor ID information from the module along with the physical address information given previously is used to determine whether the module is permitted to communicate with the TV once the migration to the alternate USB interface is fade or even at all although in this example it is not yet used. For instance the TV upon receiving a vendor ID from the module that does not match its own vendor ID may make the determination that the module is not authenticated because the TV will operate only with modules of a particular vendor and at the right time it will not engage in communication with the module over the alternate faster interface.

At and OSD name and menu language information may be optionally exchanged but such is not required for authentication to occur. the get language command for instance may not occur in certain environments. However such information can be used in the authentication process. For example if the required OSD name such as a Sony ID is not returned by the module at then the authentication would fail and the process stops.

Commands center on vendor commands as shown. For the version of the module is asked because if there is not acknowledge ack or feature abort returned from the module at it may indicate that the device has only generic standard CEC interface capability or it is not a SBB as required for instance and thus the device cannot be authenticated in this example. Similar information might be gleaned from the device type inquires of and the capability inquires of . Command may not be asked if the USB bit is set on the report capability response received in . Furthermore if the USB bit is not set on the report capability response of then the inquiry could stop at .

At all the device information exchanged between the TV and the module are collected for action. At and assuming that there have been no responses from the SBB module that disqualified if from authentication then USB communication for both the module and for the TV respectively is setup as shown.

Following setup for migration to the alternate USB interface bootup request and response is handled at and . Encryption is provided such as for example by the SSL authentication at and whereby CEC commands thereafter are encrypted. Secure Sockets Layer SSL is just one example of a cryptographic protocol that can be used to secure communications on the Internet for data transfers for such things as web browsing email and instant messaging.

At and the TV requests a key from the module. At this key is compared with the physical address earlier provided by the module at and . If there is not a match this may indicate that the module is not authorized for enhanced communication with the TV and authentication may accordingly be denied. If there is a match then transmission of CEC protocol commands from the first slower CEC interface to the second faster USB interface can proceed.

Alternately the TV may have its own key and authentication may be performed by verifying that the key returned by each device to the other is the one expected. In a particular example authentication is completed upon both devices returning the same key to each other if the keys match then transmission of CEC protocol commands from the first slower CEC interface to the second faster USB interface can proceed. If different keys are returned then authentication between the two devices is rejected and transmission of the CEC commands will not be migrated to a better faster interface. In certain embodiments the TV will be the device to reject the migration if the keys differ as is the case in this example in which the TV initiated the key inquiry to the SBB module. Authentication of a module can be achieved during boot up or when module discovery is initiated upon plugging in the module or when initiated by the user through the user interface UI . The available modules and their types may be displayed on the screen of the TV user interface and only desired or authorized modules such as a Sony SBB having the ability to switch from the CEC to an alternate interface would be displayed on the screen for selection by the user.

It can be seen that the physical addresses and keys of the devices TV and SBB in this example may be used during authentication to verify these devices one to the other prior to commencing transmission of CEC commands over the CEC interface which as previously mentioned is a relatively slow interface.

Upon authentication transmission of CEC commands between the devices will be effected over the faster alternate path USB in this example. For instance in order to keep the quality of the user experience high with the TV the TV does not filter remote control commands instead the TV forwards the remote control command to the device over the faster path.

The CEC interface cable may not be used during this time to transmit CEC commands although the CEC cable can still be used to send other information such as non CEC commands like application launch commands and audio and visual information. In this case the use of the standard CEC cable to transmit non CEC commands allows the order in which such commands are transmitted to be known and therefore controlled.

It is to be noted that as part of authentication additional information such as a device identification number may be used to verify that a device is an authorized device and thus control which devices have access to a faster communication path for CEC command protocol information. As a further example upon initiating communication a device might be requested to transmit an expected copyright notice across the USB interface. In order to start transmission of CEC commands via the USB path the copyright notice must be present and verified.

Optionally cryptography or encryption techniques in addition to or instead of the SSL authentication discussed above such as a Public Key approach might be used to verify authorized devices and stop rogue devices. In both secret key and public key approaches the TV device could send a random number such as 128 bits in the Auth bytes command to the module. In the response the module sends back an encrypted value in the Auth status field. In the secret key case there may be a shared secret value which is used to encrypt the random number. The size of the encrypted value is also 128 bits. The TV decrypts the value with the shared secret value to see if it matches the original clear value of the random number that was sent earlier.

In the public key case the response also includes the certificate for the module. The TV may check the certificate for authenticity using a root Certificate Authority public key. It can do this once and record the fact that it has seen this certificate before. It then uses the public key in the certificate to decrypt the encrypted value. It then verifies that it got the same random value back. The certificate has it own length field so that the TV knows how to parse the Auth status to get the certificate and then what is left is the encrypted random number. The random value may continually change so that this protocol is immune to replay attacks.

A note on authentication with regard to use of the known standard CEC interface versus the use of USB as a faster alternate signaling path for transmission of CEC commands is in order. Since with authentication the devices TV and module authenticate each other at the beginning of communication the data is sent to the trusted authenticated device. In this case it is assumed that the data is transferred to the trusted device and data protection or encryption is not performed for the transaction over the standard CEC path. Since data over the standard CEC is not sensitive data is not encrypted over CEC.

Data over the USB interface on the other hand should be secured. This may be provided by a root certificate for example which will be issued by an authorized entity that will be used to issue and sign TV and SBB s certificates. The certificate may be issued on a model basis not per device. The certificate would be saved in a secure area of the device and could be managed and or configured by those having the proper clearance.

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

