---

title: Method of configuring a mobile telephone to interact with external services
abstract: A mobile telephone can be configured to interact with external services by using a client application on the telephone that interacts with several external services via an intermediary server. The server sends, to the mobile telephone, configuration information to enable or disable defined sets of functionality in the application, the configuration information depending on and appropriate to the particular external service selected on the mobile telephone and being sent automatically to the mobile telephone over-the-air. An implementation of the invention enables a single client application on the mobile telephone to automatically configure features on / off, and modify the terminology used in resources (such as menus, text strings, bitmap images, sounds, sonic effects etc.) depending on the external system or service that the client is connected to via the intermediary server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08270961&OS=08270961&RS=08270961
owner: Critical Path Data Centre Limited
number: 08270961
owner_city: Cheshire
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20070126
---
This application claims the priority of PCT GB2007 000285 filed on Jan. 26 2007 which claims priority to Great Britain Application No. 0601917.8 filed Jan. 31 2006 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated in total by reference.

This invention relates to a method of configuring a mobile telephone to interact with external services.

The term mobile telephone used in this patent specification should be expansively construed to cover any kind of device with two way wireless information capabilities and includes without limitation radio telephones smart phones communicators personal computers computers and application specific devices. It includes devices able to communicate in any manner over any kind of network such as GSM or UMTS CDMA and WCDMA mobile radio Bluetooth IrDA etc. An external service is an entity or resource such as a web site which hosts or receives supplies information e.g. text in the case of blogs images in the case of photo sharing sites music files in the case of music download sites etc of interest to a user. These services are generally supplied using servers.

In a given application area for example web based online photo storage blogging or digital music downloading there are many providers of similar services. Each service offering differs slightly in the functionality it supports.

Conventionally in order to access a particular service e.g. from a specific company a mobile telephone would either need to access a specially designed web site via a browser application or else load and run an application that was specifically tailored to that particular service.

The mobile telephone would generally not be able to access the same service as a PC could the PC accesses conventional web sites using an HTML browser but this is inappropriate for a mobile telephone because of the constraints of the mobile environment including the limited screen size on the phone the key pad based data input mechanism and the high latency and frequent unavailability of the mobile network . Hence when mobile telephones interact with web based services they generally are restricted to a reduced set of functionality available from a WAP site.

It is possible to achieve a better user experience for interacting with a web based service from a mobile telephone by loading and running on the telephone an application that is specifically tailored to that particular service. For example if a mobile telephone user wishes to use an existing web based online photo storage and sharing service like Flickr i.e. a service that is not custom built for mobile telephones but is a generally accessible web site then it can download an application such as ShOZu from Cognima Limited from a remote server to its mobile telephone once activated on the telephone the user can upload photographs to the Flickr service from their mobile telephone via a Cognima gateway or intermediary server. The application is specific to Flickr i.e. it is compatible with the features or functions of Flickr and uses the same terminology as Flickr. The Cognirna gateway plays a critical role in handling all interactions with the web site it in effect stands as middleware between the mobile telephone and the web site enabling full interaction between each.

A user could choose a different web based online photo storage and sharing service like Webshots then the application downloaded from the Cognima server to the mobile telephone would be specifically adapted to work with Webshots it could have different features or functions and use different terminology. The approach of using a gateway to interact with web based services hosted on another server is powerful because it means that a conventional mobile telephone is no longer limited to a small number of WAP services often controlled by the mobile network operator .

But a conventional PC based web browsing model still has many effective features for example because the web site fully defines the visual and functional interaction the browser can be entirely generic. For a mobile telephone using the gateway approach this has not been possible the client application on the mobile telephone has to be adapted to a particular service prior to loading onto a mobile telephone. This means that a different client application has been needed for each service limiting flexibility and choice for the end user. For example a mobile network operator or handset manufacturer must choose either to install an application in its handsets that supports one particular photo sharing web service or else install an application with very generic lowest common denominator features that works with a number of web services but gives a sub optimal user experience.

The invention is a method of configuring a mobile telephone to interact with external services in which a client application on the telephone interacts with several external services via an intermediary server 

External services like photo sharing web sites use functionality and terminology that are specific to the services they support. For example some photo sharing web sites also support video files some allow users to add tags to their images some refer to tags as keywords . An implementation of the invention enables a single client application on the mobile telephone to automatically configure features on off and modify the terminology used in resources such as menus text strings bitmap images sounds sonic effects etc. depending on the external system or service that the client is connected to via the intermediary server. If this external system service is changed the configuration of features and resources in the client is changed dynamically and automatically over the air without requiring an upgrade installation of the client software. Multiple external systems services can also be supported by the client at the same time the client then adapts dynamically for all of these. For example the client can store configuration and resource profiles for several different external systems and automatically switch between them to give the user the impression of seamless and simultaneous handling of all the external systems.

The present invention can hence enable a single client to be configured dynamically over the air to use any service from a list of many. Other general types of mobile services that could benefit from this approach include music download services social networking services dating services news information services and online shopping services. Each type or class of service has many service providers each offering slight variations in features and using slightly different terminology. With this invention it is possible to create a single generic configurable client application and gateway for each type of service and have the features and terminology used in the application changed dynamically and over the air depending on which particular service provider the phone is connected to via the intermediary server or gateway.

The single generic configurable client will be less complex than separate applications each with their own UI and interaction models. The main advantage is that a network operator or handset manufacturer can install a single generic configurable client application in the mobile telephone that will work with many 3rd party services rather than requiring a separate application per 3rd party service. This means less ROM space devoted to clients less testing required and the ability to support new 3rd party services simply by connecting them to the gateway without requiring the client on the device to be updated which on many small devices is not possible at least not without the user sending their device to be modified by the manufacturer .

In a given online application area or type for example online photo sharing blogging digital music downloading social networking news information services online shopping and dating services . . . there are many providers of similar services. Each offering differs slightly in the functionality it supports. This invention allows a generic software application on a mobile telephone to be used with a variety of services dynamically changing its behaviour and resources to fit the user s choice of service.

The generic mobile telephone application does not need to know about the services that can potentially be accessed. Thus a mobile telephone application may be configured to use a service that did not exist at the time the application was installed on to the mobile telephone. This allows a mobile telephone manufacturer or mobile network operator to install the software application in devices that may sit in the sales channel for months and still have them able to use the latest services when the mobile telephones are finally sold.

Furthermore once a mobile telephone application is configured to a given service the configuration and resources of that service can be kept up to date. Thus if a service adds new functionality the mobile telephone application can be informed of this and enable the use of that functionality by the user.

A user signs up for a Cognima service i.e. signs up to use the gateway server provided by Cognima to access and use various services of a given type e.g. photo sharing and chooses which 3rd party service of that type he wishes to use e.g. Flickr . He downloads a generic configurable software application to his mobile telephone for example either by 1 entering his mobile telephone number onto a form on the web site which in turn initiates the sending of the application to the mobile telephone or 2 directly requesting the application from his mobile telephone e.g. by sending an SMS message and receiving back a download link or by typing a download link directly into a browser application on the telephone . Alternatively the application may have been pre installed on the mobile telephone by the handset manufacturer or network operator. When the user activates the software application on the mobile telephone the Cognima server uses over the air updates to inform the mobile telephone application of the selected 3rd party service s configuration and the mobile telephone application automatically reconfigures itself to present the user the correct set of functionality with the correct resources as defined by the configuration information.

For example when the application i.e. the Cognima client is activated to send photos to a 3party web site that does not accept video files video upload features of the client are automatically disabled and made invisible to the end user.

Resources such as text strings bitmap images and sounds used in the client are also configured dynarnically over the air. For instance a client application can attach tags to photos that it sends to a web site. If the end user activates the client to a web site that refers to tags as keywords the menus and text strings relating to tags in the client application are changed automatically and dynamically e.g. a menu option labelled Add tags becomes Add keywords .

A user is currently using a Cognima service connected to a particular 3rd party system. The 3rd party upgrades its system to support additional functionality. The Cognima server sends updated configuration information to the user s mobile telephone. The mobile telephone application configures itself accordingly and thus the additional functionality now offered by the 3rd party is available on the user s mobile telephone.

For example when the Cognima client is activated to send photos to a 3party web site that does not accept video files video upload features of the client are automatically disabled and made invisible to the end user. If the 3party subsequently adds support for video files then the video upload features in the client are automatically switched on.

A user is currently using a Cognima service connected to a particular 3rd party system. The 3rd party re brands itself changing its name. The Cognima server sends updated configuration information to the user s mobile telephone application which reconfigures itself to use and display the new name within the client application. Thus the user s mobile telephone application is kept in step with the 3rd party service.

An existing user is informed that new 3rd party services are available from new service providers via the gateway. These services were not available when the user installed the client application on to his mobile telephone. The user chooses one of these new services and switches his Cognima service to use this new 3rd party service. The Cognima server sends down the new configuration information to the user s mobile telephone and the mobile telephone application reconfigures itself according to the new configuration information. Thus the user s mobile telephone application now presents the correct functionality and resources for the new 3party service.

The system comprises 3 parts the mobile telephone application referred to as the Cognima client previously the Cognima server referred to as the gateway previously and 3rd party services. The three parts are schematically depicted in .

The mobile telephone application is a generic configurable client application for a specific application area or service type. Depending on configuration information sent from the server defined sets of functionality can be enabled e.g. shown to the user for his use or disabled e.g. hidden from the user so he cannot use it while the application is running. The system also allows individual resources in the application to be changed by using resources sent from the server instead of the resources in the generic version originally installed on the mobile telephone.

The Cognima server integrates with various 3rd party services to provide their functionality to the mobile telephone application. Each 3rd party service supports some or all of the features available from the mobile telephone application. The server stores information about which functionality each service provides. It also stores the resource patches required for that service. The Cognima server synchronises data from the mobile telephone with the user s selected 3rd party service. For example photos received by the gateway from the phone are uploaded to the user s account on the selected photo sharing site. Similarly comments added to that photo by visitors at the photo sharing web site may be sent down to the mobile telephone via the gateway. Communication between the phone and the gateway uses Cognima s data replication protocol. Communication between the Cognima server and the external system is achieved via direct integration using an Application Programming Interface . Details of the replication protocol can be found in GB2384589B or US 2005 0021571 the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The user creates a Cognima account on the Cognima server via a web interface and configures this to connect with one of the 3rd party services i.e. selects a particular service. The user then installs the mobile telephone application on his mobile telephone and activates it using his Cognima account credentials. Alternatively if the application has been pre installed on the mobile telephone by the handset manufacturer or network operator the user can create an account on the Cognima server directly from the application on the telephone. During the activation process the Cognima server sends configuration information relevant to the selected service and resource patches to the mobile telephone application using a proprietary protocol although any suitable protocol could be used . The mobile telephone application then enables and disables functionality as specified by the configuration information and patches any resources specified. The application automatically configures itself without direct user control or initiation. When the user starts using the application it is configured to look and behave correctly for the chosen 3rd party service.

If the 3rd party service changes in terms of supported functionality or resources the Cognima server automatically sends these changes to the mobile telephone application over the air. The mobile telephone application then automatically enables and disables functionality as required and patches resources as required keeping the application looking and behaving correctly for the 3rd party service.

The user can change his choice of 3rd party service by selecting a new service using the Cognima web site. When this is done the Cognima server communicating with the Cognima web site automatically sends the mobile telephone application new configuration information and resource patches over the air. The mobile telephone application enables and disables functionality as required and patches resources as required making the application look and behave correctly for the newly selected 3rd party service.

Because the integration to the 3rd party service is done via the Cognima server the generic client does not need to know the details of the 3rd party service. It just requires the configuration information and resource patches to work with any 3rd party service including ones that are created after the application is already installed on a user s mobile telephone.

