---

title: Handheld wireless utility asset mapping device
abstract: A wireless utility asset mapping device comprises a pole, a positioning receiver connected to the pole, a wireless modem connected to the positioning receiver and the pole, and at least one waterproof housing enclosing the positioning receiver and the wireless modem. The wireless modem is a long range wireless modem and has a range of at least 500 feet in low density and high density areas. The wireless utility asset mapping device may also comprise an external interface module, and external equipment in communication with the external interface module. A utility asset is located and the wireless utility asset mapping device is placed over the location of the utility asset. The coordinate of the wireless utility asset mapping device is determined and wirelessly transmitted over long distance in low density and high density areas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07889124&OS=07889124&RS=07889124
owner: 
number: 07889124
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070126
---
Utility assets include sewer storm fiber and gas pipelines for utilities such as natural gas electric water sewer stormwater telecommunications gasoline and oil. In order to maintain utility assets and to do construction in and around utility assets it is absolutely essential to have accurate maps of the utility assets. Inaccurate maps can lead to serious damage to utility assets and to disruption of vital utilities. Even worse inaccurate maps can lead to injury and even death of utility workers and civilians as occurred in 2004 in California when a backhoe excavating for a water distribution line punctured a buried high pressure fuel pipeline. Gasoline released into the water pipe trench was ignited by welding activities inside the pipe creating an explosion that killed five workers.

Companies have long attempted to maintain accurate records of utility assets using various surveying techniques. In recent years global positioning systems GPS have been used to more accurately ascertain the position of utility assets. Some of these prior art systems are bulky and must be transported to a site in a truck or trailer. To cut down on bulk some prior art systems employ a hand held GPS unit with internal memory. A utility worker surveying for utility assets stores the GPS coordinates of found utility assets in the internal memory. Later the stored GPS coordinates are manually transferred to a database in an asset tracking computer. By manual transferring it is meant that either the GPS coordinates are read from the GPS unit and typed into the asset tracking computer or the GPS unit or memory of the GPS unit is connected to the asset tracking computer and electronically transferred.

While potentially providing more accurate location information the process of finding the utility asset storing it in the GPS unit and manually transferring it to the database is still cumbersome and error prone. Furthermore the coordinates by themselves are not as useful without a utility asset type assigned to those coordinates. Thus additional steps often required in the prior art include the utility worker keeping a record of the type of utility asset at the coordinates and manually transferring the type with the coordinates after storing. Some attempts to eliminate some steps of the manual transfer process have been made by employing a GPS unit with built in Bluetooth transceiver IEEE 802.15 . However since Bluetooth has a range of only tens of feet the pairing of GPS with Bluetooth for the purpose of transmitting coordinates to an asset tracking computer has proved to be less than practical in real world application.

Thus there is a need for a wireless utility asset mapping device and method. Also there is a need for a system and method to wirelessly transmit GPS coordinates of utility assets over a long distance to a remote asset tracking computer. Additionally there is a need for a system and method to wirelessly transmit GPS coordinates and other data related to utility assets to a remote asset tracking computer.

A wireless utility asset mapping device comprise a pole having a top end a bottom end and a middle section extending from the top end to the bottom end. A positioning receiver is connected to the pole. The positioning receiver is connected closer to the top end of the pole than the bottom end. A wireless modem is connected to the positioning receiver. The wireless modem is a long distance wireless modem and has a range of at least 500 feet in low density and high density areas. At least one weatherproof housing encloses the positioning receiver and the wireless modem. A wireless utility asset mapping device method comprises locating a utility asset placing a wireless utility asset mapping device over the location of the utility asset determining a coordinate of the wireless utility asset mapping device and wireless transmitting the coordinate over long distance in both low density and high density areas.

The foregoing paragraph has been provided by way of general introduction and it should not be used to narrow the scope of the following claims.

Referring to a wireless utility asset mapping device equivalently referred to herein as the device is shown. The wireless utility asset mapping device includes a pole a positioning receiver connected to the pole a wireless modem connected to the pole and the positioning receiver and at least one weatherproof housing enclosing the positioning receiver and wireless modem .

The pole has a top end a bottom end and a middle section connecting the top end and the bottom end and extending the distance between the top end and bottom end . Positioning receiver and wireless modem are both connected closer to the top end of pole than the bottom end

The device also includes at least one battery connected to positioning receiver and wireless modem . The at least one battery powers positioning receiver wireless modem and any other components to be described below of the device. While shows one exemplary device having two batteries it is understood that one battery may be employed or more than two batteries may be employed. The battery or batteries may be integral to positioning receiver wireless modem at least one weatherproof housing or other components. Furthermore the device may comprise a solar powered source comprising a solar cell s . For example a solar power source may provide power and be connected to positioning receiver and wireless modem and or the solar power source may be connected to battery for charging the battery .

In one embodiment positioning receiver comprises a global positioning system GPS receiver having sub meter accuracy. Such global positioning receivers are well understood by those having ordinary skill in the art and are widely commercially available. One exemplary GPS receiver is the GPS Pathfinder ProXT receiver sold by Trimble Navigation. Other exemplary GPS receivers include receivers from Leica and Garmin receivers that are NMEA 0183 compatible and receivers which are operable through an RS 232 port.

Positioning receiver is connected to wireless modem . Wireless modem is a long range wireless modem. Wireless modem receives digital and or analog data from positioning receiver and transmits it wirelessly over long distance. By long distance and long range it is meant that the data is transmitted such that it can be reliably received by a compatible wireless receiver at least 500 feet away. Furthermore long distance and long range means that the long range wireless modem operates reliably in many different environments. One type of an environment is a low density area for example rural areas and areas where there are few line of sight obstructions. Another environment is a high density areas. High density areas include areas such as cities areas with a high density of people buildings and structures and in or near areas such as cities and airports where there is usually significant ambient radio frequency noise.

Wireless modem may be a radio frequency RF modem comprising an RF transmitter operating in a frequency band around at least 900 MHz. For example the wireless modem may operate in frequency bands of 900 MHz 2.4 GHz 3.5 GHz 5.8 GHz other frequency bands above 5.8 GHz other frequency bands below 5.8 GHz or any other available widely used or allowable frequency band used for wireless communications.

Furthermore wireless modem may operate according to many well understood standards and principles. For example wireless modem may comprises a spread spectrum modem. Also wireless modem may operate according to a specification such as an 802.xx wireless specification. As used herein 802.xx is meant to refer to any number of wireless specifications from the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE . Without limitation one example of an 802.xx wireless specifications includes 802.16 also known as WiMAX. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that are many other 802.xx wireless specifications either in existence proposed or to be proposed that may be employed by the wireless modem to operate over long distance. The wireless modem may operate according to any number of wireless packetized data specifications or protocols. The wireless modem and other elements of the wireless utility asset mapping device may comprise a unique network identifier such as a MAC address and IP address.

Of course wireless modem does not have to operate according an 802.xx specification and may operate according to many well known wireless methods capable of long distance communications. One example of a spread spectrum wireless modem capable of both transmitting and receiving digital data is the XStream PKG RF Modem sold by MaxStream. Another type of RF modem comprises a modem which communicates via an existing cellular or mobile phone network.

The pole may comprise many different types of materials shapes colors and may have various different features. For example in one embodiment the pole is fixed in length. In another embodiment the pole is variable in length and may be telescoping. The variable length pole may be variable from around three feet to around seven feet. The length of the pole may be varied by opening or loosening a handle lock collar or other prior art device of the pole to allow it to extend or retract and then closing the handle lock or collar to lock to the desired length. The variable length pole may alternately have threaded telescoping portions that extend and retract by turning the telescoping portions in the threads. The variable length pole may have threaded or non threaded attachments collars or rings that allow shorter sections of pole extensions or devices to be added to or removed from the pole thereby increasing or decreasing its length. Also the variable length pole may comprise markings indicating the length of the pole.

Furthermore the bottom end of the pole whether variable in length or fixed may comprise a point or a stand such as a tripod or a base or other device that allows the pole to stand without being held. The bottom end may also comprise a helical device such as an auger a drill a large corkscrew or similar attachment. The helical device may be manually rotated for example into the ground or may be powered. The helical device may be telescopic or otherwise extendible. The bottom end of the pole may further comprise a sensor. The sensor may comprise a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a transponder and the like. For example the bottom end of the pole may comprise a sonde receiver.

As mentioned briefly above the device also includes at least one weatherproof housing . There may be one or more than one weatherproof housing enclosing positioning receiver and wireless modem . For example positioning receiver may be enclosed by a first weatherproof housing and wireless modem may be enclosed by a second weatherproof housing . The battery or batteries may be enclosed by their own weatherproof housing or they may share a weatherproof housing with positioning receiver and or wireless modem . Weatherproof housings also include waterproof housings. The weatherproof housing may be brightly colored. It may be made of plastic or any suitable material and may include gaskets and other well known weatherproofing devices.

The device may also comprise at least one antenna. It is well understood that positioning receiver and wireless modem each comprise at least one antenna. These at least one antennas may be enclosed within positioning receiver and or wireless modem and or at least one weatherproof housing . For example antenna is connected to positioning receiver and enclosed by at least one weatherproof housing. Further positioning receiver may have one or more antennas not shown internal to a case housing positioning receiver .

Likewise wireless modem may have one or more antenna. As shown in at least one antenna extends from weatherproof housing . Antenna is connected to wireless modem . The at least one antenna may also be connected to positioning receiver or wireless modem with a wire which passes through the at least one weatherproof house and the antenna mounted on the pole .

Examining the device may also include an external interface module . If included the external interface module is in communication with wireless modem and or with positioning receiver . This may done in many ways for example as shown in the positioning receiver and the external interface module are both connected directly to the wireless modem . However in another configuration illustrated in the positioning receiver is connected to the external interface module which in turn is connected to the wireless modem . Of course other configurations are possible by themselves or in combination.

Additionally if the external interface module is included for example external interface module it may be connected to pole around the middle section of the pole for example just above the midway point between top end and bottom end . In another embodiment external interface module is not connected to pole . In this case external interface module may be in wireless communication with position receiver and or wireless modem through at least one antenna or another antenna described above but not illustrated. In yet another embodiment the device comprises more than one external interface module such as modules and . Here modules and may be in communication with each other and thus module is in communication with wireless modem and or positioning receiver through module . No matter the case if an external interface module is included at least one more weatherproof housing may be included to enclose the external interface module s .

The external interface module may comprise any number of items such as switches buttons circuits a handheld computer a wireless mobile device a touch screen a keyboard or keypad antennas a camera a speaker a microphone lights light emitting diodes liquid crystal displays an antenna circuits for storing data manipulating data routing data and ports such as memory card ports serial ports parallel ports optical ports Ethernet ports pcmcia ports and the like.

Referring briefly above with reference to positioning receiver and wireless modem one or both may also comprise at least one communication port. Examples of communication ports include serial ports parallel ports optical ports Ethernet ports pcmcia ports and the like. It is understood for example such ports include low speed as well as high speed ports such as USB and Firewire ports. These and other ports may be used to connect for example positioning receiver to wireless modem and external interface module to wireless modem . Additionally positioning receiver and or wireless modem may comprise a wireless transceiver such as an 802.xx wireless transceiver. For example positioning receiver may comprise a wireless personal area network transceiver such as a Bluetooth transceiver IEEE 802.15 connected to antenna . In this case for example external interface module may comprise a handheld computer or mobile wireless device comprising a Bluetooth transceiver and module may communicate over short distance with positioning receiver which in turn is in communication with wireless modem .

The wireless utility asset mapping device may also comprise external equipment . The external equipment is in communication with external interface . The external equipment may comprise any number of devices for collecting data detecting conditions surveying conditions and taking any number of measurements in and around utility assets including underground and underwater. As well understood by those having ordinary skill in the art such external equipment may employ electromagnetic magnetic sonic acoustic radar such as ground penetrating radar live line detection and robotic crawler systems and methods. Thus a small example of the range of external equipment includes a line locator a metal detector a still camera a video camera a radar such as a ground penetrating radar and subsurface interface radar an acoustic sensor a magnetic detector an electromagnetic detector a gas detector a sonar device a sonde transmitter a sonde receiver a submersible camera a robotic crawler a pipe scrubbing and scraping device a smart pig a horizontal drilling device a vertical drilling device a thermal imaging device a microgravity detector a radiation detector an x ray device a pressure measuring device and a seismic detector.

With this in mind shows a wireless utility asset mapping device method. Briefly a utility asset is located step the wireless utility asset mapping device is placed over the location of the utility asset step the coordinate of the wireless utility asset mapping device is determined step and the coordinate is transmitted over long distance step .

Adding additional detail the utility asset is located step by visual inspection and or through records. The step of locating may yield the exact location or the asset or a branch of the asset such as a manhole cover or only the approximate location in the case where the asset is obscured or buried. In either case a worker places the bottom end of the pole of the wireless utility asset tracking device over the exact or approximate location of the utility asset step .

Referring briefly back to when the wireless utility asset tracking device is operating positioning receiver determines the coordinates of the positioning receiver and in turn the pole which in turn indicates the location of the utility asset. These coordinates which comprise a latitude and longitude are received by the wireless modem which transmits them over long distance. As will be disclosed below the coordinates along with optional other information may be received and stored in a remote asset tracking computer.

Accordingly and with reference to the coordinate is determined with sub meter accuracy better than one meter step and the coordinate is transmitted over long distance step . As already disclosed the step of transmitting step may comprise at least one of the following transmitting around at least a 900 megahertz band transmitting with spread spectrum modulation transmitting according to an 802.xx wireless specification and transmitting packetized wireless data.

As sometimes happens the utility asset is buried or otherwise obscured. In this case the step of locating step further comprises physically locating an approximate location of the utility asset step of and inspecting the utility asset from the approximate location to determine a more precise location step of .

As disclosed above with reference to the external equipment of the inspecting step further comprises any number of the following or equivalent inspecting visually inspecting with a line locator inspecting with a metal detector inspecting with a still camera inspecting with a video camera inspecting with radar inspecting with sound inspecting with magnetic fields inspecting with electromagnetic fields inspecting with a gas detector inspecting with sonar inspecting with a sonde transmitter inspecting with a sonde receiver inspecting with a submersible camera inspecting with a robotic crawler inspecting with a pipe scrubbing and scraping device inspecting with a smart pig inspecting with a horizontal drilling device inspecting with a vertical drilling device inspecting with thermal imaging inspecting with a microgravity detector inspecting with a radiation detector inspecting with x rays device inspecting with a pressure sensor and inspecting with a seismic detector.

Since the external equipment of is in communication with the wireless modem of through the external interface of during and after inspection step of at least one of the following may also be transmitted over long distance step a depth measurement sensor measurements a still image a video text and audio. The sensor measurements may include any measurements available from the external equipment such as radiation levels sonar ping statistics electromagnetic field levels and variances and the like. Still images and video many also be transmitted for example from cameras as mentioned with respect to the external equipment of .

The text and audio may comprise any text and audio entered or spoken into the external interface. As mentioned the external interface module of may include any number of items including switches buttons a handheld computer a touch screen a keyboard a keypad and so on as disclosed above. In this way text and audio entered into the external interface may be transmitted over long distance.

Referencing which shows the steps some optional of determining a coordinate step of as can be appreciated by now in light of the above disclosure determining a coordinate includes determining a latitude an longitude step and optionally determining a depth step . Thus when transmitting the coordinate over long distance step it is understood that that the coordinate can include other data such as a depth and other information of interest to an inspector or utility worker.

For the purposes of understanding the scope of the step of transmitting over long distance step the transmitting may also include other utility asset information step . Some of the this other utility asset information was already disclosed above with reference to the external equipment and includes but is in no way limited to depth measurements sensor measurements still images video text and audio. It may also include control signals such as a capture signal and signals indicated utility asset types.

Briefly coordinates and optionally other utility asset information is transmitted and that transmission may as suggested and as will be described later be received and stored by a remote computer a long distance away. In one embodiment the transmissions are continuously stored as they are received. In another embodiment the transmissions are stored only when signaled by a worker operating the wireless utility asset mapping device.

In this embodiment and by way of example when a worker believes he has successfully identified and inspected the utility asset he signals this by way of the external interface of . For example in a simple but useful illustration a button of the external interface is pressed when the utility asset is located causing a capture signal step to be generated by the external interface and transmitted along with the coordinates step and any other information step over long distance step .

A remote receiving computer is configured such that received information is stored only in response to the capture signal. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many variations are possible and many different types of data and control signals may be generated. For example the capture signal may be of abbreviated length such that only one coordinate sample or other utility asset information is captured or of extended length to capture a series of transmissions. There may be more than one button of the external interface and each one when pressed may indicate an asset type for example gas water and the like. Additional buttons may indicate additional details. In the case where the external interface includes a portable computer or keypad or touch screen or the like the same and still more detailed information and control signals can be transmitted over long distance.

Referring to in the case where as mentioned the wireless modem of includes both a wireless transmitter and a wireless receiver the wireless utility asset mapping device may receive transmissions such as information related to the inspection of the utility asset step and display the related information of the external interface step .

Now looking at one exemplary model of the wireless utility asset mapping device is shown. The device includes a pole with a pointed bottom end and is extendable by way of a telescoping portion . The device further includes positioning receiver connected to a wireless modem enclosed in weatherproof housing . In this exemplary model the positioning receiver is manufactured such that its case is weatherproof and thus an additional weatherproof housing is not necessary. An antenna connected to the wireless modem extends from the weatherproof housing. A battery internal to positioning receiver provides power to the positioning receiver and a battery enclosed in weatherproof housing is connected to the wireless modem also enclosed in the weatherproof housing . Further positioning receiver includes a communication port through which position receiver is in communication with the wireless modem which has a corresponding communication port. The exemplary model of shows only one configuration and those skilled in the art will appreciate that many other configuration are possible in light of above disclosure.

Turning now to a system for wireless tracking of utility assets is shown. The system comprises a wireless utility asset mapping device a remote wireless modem in wireless communication with the wireless utility asset mapping device and a remote asset tracking computer in communication with the remote wireless modem .

The remote wireless modem may include an additional antenna . The remote wireless modem is the same as or compatible with wireless modem . The remote wireless modem may comprise a receive only modem or be operated in a receive only mode or may comprise a transceiver for both receiving and transmitting data. Transmissions from wireless modem as described above are received by remote wireless modem . If as disclosed with reference to the wireless utility asset mapping device receives and displays related information the related information may be transmitted by the remote wireless modem . The remote wireless modem transmits the related information over long distance.

The information received by the remote wireless modem is stored and if desired or necessary processed by the remote asset tracking computer . For example the coordinates transmitted by the wireless modem and received by the remote wireless modem are stored in database . All other information and data may be stored in database . While shows one database it is understood that this is merely a symbolic representation and there could in fact be more than one database. The more than one database can comprise physically separate databases stored on physically distinct storage devices and or logically separate databases stored on a common storage device.

Databases are well understood and include by way of example Oracle databases SQL databases and various type of relational databases. Also the remote asset tracking computer and equivalents herein may include an embedded system or a general purpose computer such as a computer based on an Intel or AMD microprocessor and running an operating system such as Microsoft Windows UNIX or Linux. The remote asset tracking computer may also run a real time operating system.

The remote asset tracking computer also comprises a geographic information system GIS . Geographic information systems are will understood by those having ordinary skill in the art. Generally a GIS comprises systems and methods for capturing managing analyzing and displaying geographically referenced information. In this case the geographically referenced information includes data associated with utility assets as described above. Most commonly the geographically referenced information is displayed over a map. The information and map may be manipulated studied and analyzed to visualize additional levels of detail information and relationships between the information and the geography. There are many GIS products and many of these can be adapted for the specific purpose of tracking and visualizing utility assets. For example a partial list of compatible GIS includes MapServer GRASS Geographic Resources Analysis Support System gvSIG JUMP GIS MapWindow GIS OpenMAP Quantum GIS ERSI GIS products such as ArcGIS and many more. Still another example of a GIS which is specifically tailored for utility asset tracking and visualization is GraniteXP by CUES Inc.

GIS database and any other modules of remote access tracking computer may comprise a computer readable medium such as a volatile or non volatile solid state memory magnetic storage medium optical storage medium magneto optical storage medium or any other storage medium including a computer readable program which when executed on a computer causes the computer to perform the steps of a geographic information system a database a wireless tracking utility asset method and other methods.

Notwithstanding the specific GIS implementation GIS accesses database . Also depending on the specific GIS remote asset tracking computer may further comprise interface module . Interface module receives data from remote wireless modem and performs any necessary or desired processing so the data including any control signals such as the capture signal can be processed and stored by GIS and database .

Most every GIS includes an API Application Programming Interface so that external application such as for example interface module can communicate with the GIS. In one example the GIS GraniteXP mentioned above includes an interface module called a GPS plugin module for communicating with GIS database remote wireless modem and by extension wireless utility mapping device .

Remote asset tracking computer may also include other modules such as import export modules for importing and exporting GIS data in a format compatible with other geographic information systems. Also remote asset tracking computer may include report modules for generating reports and output in various formats including formats that are compliant with government regulations and or industry standards. The report modules and import export modules may also generate and serve data in formats such as XML XHTML and HTML which are accessible over the internet and readable by web applications and may employ AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML and SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol . Of course these are only a few example of protocols languages and techniques that may be employed and many others are possible for internet based web development. Also the report modules and import export modules may generate text based reports Portable Document Format PDF based reports reports compatible with spreadsheets and the like.

As pointed to by arrow of remote wireless modem is in communication with remote asset tracking computer . This communication may be by way of a wired connection or a wireless connection. By way of example a few of the ways the communication can be established include a wired connection or network using a serial or parallel port or an Ethernet cable or a wired network such as a local area network and or Ethernet network a wireless connection or network such as a WiFi network or wireless LAN like IEEE 802.11 or wireless personal area network like a Bluetooth network like IEEE 802.15 or a wireless metropolitan area network such as WiMax like IEEE 802.16 or a cellular or mobile phone communications network or a proprietary network or the Internet. It is appreciated that more than one of these may used for communication between remote wireless modem and remote asset tracking computer .

Also communication may be through an additional or more than one additional computer and or network. For example remote wireless modem may communicate with an additional remote asset tracking computer connected to the Internet. The additional remote asset tracking computer may in turn communicate via the Internet to remote asset tracking computer .

The step of locating step was disclosed in detail above with reference to . Also referring to and referencing the disclosure related to locating further comprises physically locating an approximate location of the utility asset step and inspecting the utility asset from the approximate location to determine a more precise location step . Further said wireless transmitting further for at least one step a depth measurement a sensor measurement a still image a video text and audio wirelessly transmitting step wirelessly receiving step transmitting to the remote asset tracking device computer step and storing in the database step .

Referring to and referencing the disclosure above related to other utility asset information step of the method also may include wirelessly transmitting over long distance other utility asset information step followed by for the other utility asset information the steps of wirelessly receiving step transmitting step and storing step .

Also with reference to the discussion of related information may be received and displayed proximal to the wireless utility asset mapping device. Examining the method includes transmitting from the remote utility asset tracking computer and over long distance information related to the utility asset step receiving over long distance and proximal to the wireless utility asset mapping device the information related to the utility asset step and displaying the related information proximal to the wireless utility asset mapping device step .

1 A utility truck carries remote wireless modem and remote utility asset tracking computer which are in wireless communication with the wireless utility asset mapping device 

2 The utility truck may in turn be connected to a network such as the Internet wirelessly and or wired and communicate with any number of remote asset tracking computers for example asset tracking computer . More than one utility truck may be in simultaneous communication with computer in which case computer is a central remote asset tracking computer server which acts as a central repository for all utility assets 

3 The utility truck may be connected to a wireless network that communicates with remote wireless modem and remote asset tracking computer located for example in a government or municipal building . This remote asset tracking computer may in turn be connected to the Internet that communicates with exemplary central remote asset tracking computer server .

4 Utility poles towers or other raised permanent fixtures comprise remote wireless modems which are in communication with any wireless utility asset mapping device that is within range. Remote wireless modems are in communication with network and thus with a remote asset tracking such as computer .

5 Each municipality has a remote asset tracking computer which receives utility asset information from wireless utility asset mapping devices via trucks and or utility poles . Each remote asset tracking computer of each municipality is connected to the Internet and in turn to central remote asset tracking computer which may be for example a state wide database or a country wide database.

6 Users such as government officials enforcement officers utility workers inspectors and the like may access wirelessly or wired via computer or mobile device central remote asset tracking computer or municipality to display asset information and or generate reports. For example worker in the field may access computer via a web enabled phone or pda to obtain gps coordinates of an asset and or to view a GIS display via a web browser of utility asset in the area and or view and access the GIS in real time and or view or print a location and all available infrastructure layers noted in the GIS for the location and or access historical information such as listings of previous inspections and or access the GIS to initiate and annotate new inspections and or make additions and corrections to recorded data.

The foregoing detailed description has discussed only a few of the many forms that any invention disclosed herein can take. It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be understood as an illustration of selected forms that the invention can take and not as a definition of the invention. It is only the following claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the scope of this invention.

