---

title: Web services and telecom network management unification
abstract: A method of unifying web services and telecom network management is described. The method comprises exporting an external model representation of at least one entity of a service oriented architecture of a service oriented architecture manager and importing the exported external model representation of the at least one entity as a network management data model entity of a network manager. The method further comprises subscribing, by the network manager, to subsequent updates of the at least one entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09088518&OS=09088518&RS=09088518
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09088518
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070125
---
Telecommunication Telecom service providers recruit third party independent software vendors ISVs to deliver services to run on the telecommunication network infrastructure both within and outside the Telecom service provider domain. Telecom service providers need to be aware of how service outages affect their subscriber base consuming or registered to use the affected services. Some solutions such as a Hewlett Packard HP Service Delivery Platform SDP use a Service Oriented Architecture SOA to deploy new services rapidly within the Telecom service provider infrastructure by reusing common services leveraging third party provided services. The Telecom Network Operations Center NOC needs to be alerted about fault and performance issues at the SOA level so that potential end user service outages can be addressed quickly. Telecom NOC staff monitor separate platforms e.g. separate computer systems in order to manage web services and telecom networks.

Telecommunication networks and web services providers exist in largely independent domains. The information models used by software from these different domains differ presenting difficulties to developers users and service and network providers. By not presenting the information from the information models in a single information model the support staff may be delayed in responding to service issues.

For example automatic announcement of web service outages are not possible unless the alerts raised by a web services management platform is sent to software generating the announcements.

In accordance with at least some embodiments SOAM generates a Resource Description Framework RDF model representation i.e. an external model representation of service model and ISM imports the RDF graph into SID . The RDF family of specifications from the World Wide Web Consortium provide a lightweight ontology for the exchange of knowledge in the Web. RDF captures the knowledge in a set of triples each consisting of subject predicate and object. XML provides a common notation for representing RDF triples although it is not the only notation that can be used. RDF model captures information in service model of SOAM. In at least some embodiments RDF model captures the same information as in service model . After importation of RDF model into SID ISM is able to obtain updated information for a Web service from SOAM and more particularly information from service model converted into the RDF model.

In at least some embodiments SOAM generates and transmits an alert signal to ISM in response to an update of status information for a particular Web service . The alert is generated within SOAM by a monitoring engine based on metrics provided from the Web services and threshold values e.g. performance thresholds set by the operator on those metrics. In some embodiments SOAM generates and transmits alert signal responsive to an update of status information from a particular web service . In some embodiments alert signal provides updated information to ISM corresponding to updated information for service model which caused the fault to be generated. In at least some other embodiments ISM requests an update update request from service model of information in SID corresponding to imported RDF model . In at least some embodiments alert signal comprises information identifying a particular web service in service model causing the alert signal and ISM transmits update request comprising information based on the representation of the particular identified Web service to the service model.

In at least some embodiments responsive to receipt of update request from ISM SOAM generates and transmits an update specifying updated information for service model . For example if ISM and SOAM have not communicated for a period of time such that RDF model imported into SID are out of date the ISM may transmit an update request to the SOAM. In some embodiments SOAM generates and transmits an update specifying updated information specific to the particular web service which caused the generation of alert signal . In this manner alerts generated by web service s managed by SOAM are provided to SID and ISM for presentation e.g. via a display to a user of the ISM i.e. a single interface such as a telecom network management system may be used to interact with both telecom networks and web services. As described above in some embodiments alert comprises the updated information specific to the particular web service which caused the generation of alert signal .

In some further embodiments ISM may transmit a clear alert signal to SOAM . For example in response to an alert transmitted from SOAM to ISM the ISM may clear e.g. reset the fault in the corresponding entity in SID . Clearing the fault in SID may then cause generation and transmission e.g. by ISM of a clear alert message to SOAM and the corresponding entity in service model and or web service . In at least one embodiment the clear alert message may be generated from ISM as part of execution of a rule in rule set .

For simplicity and clarity depicts a single web service however in some embodiments more than one web service may be present. Software that is accessible over a computer network and which provides specific functionality and supports interaction with other software entities on computers connected to the network may be regarded as a web service. In at least one embodiment web services may follow standards in order to allow better tooling support from vendors. In at least one other embodiment web services may not follow and or may follow a select set of standards.

According to at least one example the interfaces to web services may be according to Representational State Transfer REST or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP specifications or other conventions agreed among web service designers. For example a shipping company may have implemented a business service to match vehicle drivers to package pickup requests received by the shipping company. The business service may access a location mapping web service which responds to a pickup request comprising a given location of the package and a given location of the nearest available driver by generating map images of the requested destination and route and turn by turn directions.

SOAM generates service model based on discovering one or more Web service s managed by the SOAM. Service model represents web service s discovered by SOAM as managed entities and the dependencies of business services on the Web services e.g. the dependency of the package and driver matching service on the location mapping Web service in the above example and inter dependency of Web services are represented in the service model.

Service model entities managed by SOAM differ from SID entities managed by ISM . Service model is a service model in an internal representation of SOAM or in a language such as a Service Modeling Language SML . SID is a service model in the Shared Information and Data SID model standardized in the Telecom Management Forum. RDF model represents service model entities corresponding to web service s as a set of triples e.g. a subject predicate object expression. For example a particular web service entity in service model may comprise a name attribute such as Name and a unique identifier attribute such as UniqueIdentifier. In some embodiments a particular web service entity comprises a name attribute and a unique identifier attribute and additionally a fault attribute such as Fault. In at least some embodiments a particular web service entity comprises a service attribute e.g. a response time a throughput value and other performance related values. The service attribute may be compared to a threshold value by SOAM in determining whether a service differs from a particular performance threshold e.g. whether the service meets or exceeds a threshold whether the service is below a given threshold etc.

Because of the entity differences between service model entities and SID entities ISM applies a rule set to RDF model entities in order to import represent the service model entities in the SID. In some embodiments a web service entity from service model may be represented as a resource entity in SID and a business process from the service model may be represented as a service in the SID. depicts a high level mapping of attributes between service model entities and SID entities. As depicted optional attributes may be mapped e.g. a fault attribute. For example the above described particular web service entities attributes may be mapped as follows 

Rule set comprises one or more rules applied by ISM to entities of RDF model during importation into SID . For example the mapping specified in the above tables may be implemented in at least some embodiments using the following rules 

Rules and A indicate the mapping indicated by the arrow from service model left hand side to SID right hand side . Per the rules a variable W is bound to a web service in service model and the variables N and I are bound respectively to the name and UniqueIdentifier attributes of a web service entity in the service model. ISM transforms the entity to SID by creating a resource entity and setting the commonName and EntityIdentification attributes to the values bound to the N and I variables respectively. If web service entity comprises a fault attribute rule A preserves the fault attribute in the transformation and importation into SID . For example variable F is bound to the fault attribute and during transformation ISM sets the fault attribute of the SID entity to the value bound to the F variable.

In order to inform a user at a telecom NOC about a particular fault or performance degradation e.g. an alert related to a particular Web service a function is specified using a web ontology language OWL i.e. a markup language used for specifying data by representing the meanings of terms using vocabularies and relationships between terms in a manner suitable for processing by a processor to identify the particular web service via the SID entity corresponding to the particular web service. For example assuming ISM comprises information specifying services to which a particular telecom network user is subscribed e.g. the shipping company and or the shipping company employee subscribing to a package and driver matching service an example function to be applied to SID to determine the subscriptions of the telecom network user is as follows 

The above function specification identifies the function and the resources applicable to the function in SID .

SOAM maintains in service model dependency information regarding composite services reliant on underlying web service s . If an underlying web service generates an alert based on the dependency information in service model the alert may be propagated to all composite services which depend on the web service. Based on the generated and propagated alert SOAM alerts alert signal ISM to a fault.

Based on alert generation and propagation from SOAM to ISM as described above an additional rule of rule set may be applied to SID to generate an alert for presentation to a telecom network user and or a telecom network operator based on the following rule 

ISM applies Rule to SID based on receipt of an alert from SOAM and generates for example a service outage announcement. That is the telecom network management system is able to generate an alert to a user based on occurrence of a fault in the web service management system.

Responsive to receipt of a fault generated by a web service the flow proceeds to alert generation wherein SOAM generates and transmits an alert signal to ISM . According to at least one embodiment the generated alert comprises information of an entity e.g. the entity causing the fault generation and or entities dependent thereon in the service model corresponding to an entity in SID . The flow returns to wait function .

In at least one embodiment indicated by dashed line in if communication between SOAM and ISM has been interrupted for a given period of time ISM may request an update of information in SID corresponding to service model entities. Responsive to receipt of an update request from ISM the flow proceeds to update generation wherein SOAM generates update information based on service model and transmits update to ISM . The flow returns to wait function .

Responsive to receipt of alert signal from SOAM the flow proceeds to alert generation wherein ISM updates SID and generates an alert for presentation to a user e.g. by display on a monitor to a user by transmission to a user via audio video and or haptic feedback mechanisms. According to at least one embodiment the alert received by ISM comprises information of an entity e.g. the entity causing the fault generation and or entities dependent thereon in the service model corresponding to an entity in SID .

In at least one embodiment if communication between SOAM and ISM has been interrupted for a given period of time ISM may request an update of information in SID corresponding to service model entities. The flow proceeds to update request dashed line wherein ISM requests updated information from the SOAM based on the received alert signal. The flow returns to wait function .

At a later time web service generates a fault and transmits sequence an alert to SOAM . Responsive to the alert from web service SOAM generates and transmits alert signal sequence to ISM . According to at least one embodiment the generated alert comprises information of an entity e.g. the entity causing the fault generation and or entities dependent thereon in the service model corresponding to an entity in SID . In at least one embodiment the generated alert comprises information to enable ISM to update the corresponding entity ies in SID .

Responsive to receipt of alert signal ISM imports sequence the updated information into SID and generates and transmits an alert to a user.

Responsive to receipt of a fault generated by a web service the flow proceeds to alert generation wherein SOAM generates and transmits an alert signal to ISM . The flow returns to wait function .

Responsive to receipt of an update request from ISM the flow proceeds to update generation wherein SOAM generates update information based on service model and transmits update to ISM . The flow returns to wait function .

Responsive to receipt of alert signal from SOAM the flow proceeds to update request wherein ISM requests updated information from the SOAM based on the received alert signal. The flow returns to wait function .

Responsive to receipt of update from SOAM the flow proceeds to alert generation wherein ISM updates SID and generates an alert for presentation to a user e.g. by display on a monitor to a user by transmission to a user via audio video and or haptic feedback mechanisms.

At a later time web service generates a fault and transmits sequence an alert to SOAM . Responsive to the alert from web service SOAM generates and transmits alert signal sequence to ISM . Responsive to receipt of alert signal ISM requests sequence updated information from SOAM based on the alert signal. Responsive to receipt of the update request from ISM SOAM transmits sequence updated information from service model to ISM . Responsive to receipt of the updated information from SOAM ISM imports sequence the updated information into SID and generates and transmits an alert to a user.

Some or all of the operations functions and methods set forth in this application may be performed by one or more computer programs including instructions and stored on a memory or other type of computer readable storage medium. The one or more computer programs may be executed by a processor to perform the operations functions and methods. Examples of the operations functions and methods include but are not limited exporting an external model representation of at least one entity of a service model of a service oriented architecture manager importing the exported external model representation of the at least one entity as a network management data model entity of a network manager and subscribing by the network manager to subsequent updates of the at least one entity.

