---

title: System, method and medium organizing templates for generating moving images
abstract: A system, method and medium organizing a template, which enables a user to easily create moving images, are provided. The system includes a template controller to generate a time tab indicating when to display the moving image and to identify one or more scenes of the moving image by parsing a script in response to a user command, a scene controller to identify one or more objects included in each of the scenes and an execution module to define dynamic effects for each of the objects and to load the identified objects and the identified execution module, an object controller to create a control code for each of the identified objects based on the loaded objects and the loaded execution module, the control code controlling the identified objects according to the time tab, and a template storage unit to store the template that includes the script, the execution module, the objects, and the control code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08205159&OS=08205159&RS=08205159
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08205159
owner_city: Suwon-Si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20070910
---
This application claims priority from Korean Patent Application No. 10 2006 0129535 filed on Dec. 18 2006 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relate to moving images and more particularly to a system method and medium of organizing templates for generating moving images so that a user may more easily create moving images.

Slideshow presentations are one of the most widely adopted methods for displaying a number of content items such as photos. In a slide show a plurality of content items such as photos are displayed one after another at regular time intervals. With the slideshow presentation the playback of content may be interrupted for a predetermined period of time suggesting that a slideshow can only display content in a non successive manner and thus may not be able to freely organize content according to a user s preference. Thus the slideshow presentation is not appropriate to best cope with the recent trend in user s demand for personalized images and dynamic presentations created from the images.

Also since in a slideshow only one content item is displayed at a time a user may not be able to intuitively determine the correlation between previous current and subsequent content items and to render the content items in various manners. That is since a slideshow is a static display of content items at regular time intervals a user may not be able to intuitively determine the correlation between the content items even if the content items are photos taken at the same place.

Therefore in order to overcome the problems with the conventional monotonous slideshow presentation method additional objects such as stickers and captions may be added to content and various dynamic effects such as zoom pan and tilt may be added to content. Conventional slideshow methods however simply display content in the same manner and are thus still insufficient to meet various user demands.

Although the production of moving images based on personal content is on the increase in terms of frequency conventional tools for content creation still require users to acquire professional expertise. In addition it is difficult to transform user created content to a compatibly formatted content that can be transmitted to or shared with different types of devices. In order to address this problem various techniques of enhancing user convenience by creating a moving image based on user created content have been suggested. These techniques enable users to create a moving image based on a collection of various content items and thus apply the moving image to a home server through transmitting and sharing it. Moving images are execution module based images created based on photos digital photos and music sources possessed by individuals. Examples of moving images include Macromedia s Shockwave Flash SWF files created using the Flash animation software program.

Moving images are distinguished from video sequences which can be compressed or decompressed by MPEG or H.264 codecs. A moving image may include a plurality of content items which can be controlled independently of one another whereas a video sequence may include various images which merely comprise pixel data and which cannot be controlled independently of one another. Video sequences are regarded as content items that can be included in a moving image.

In order to create a moving image it is necessary to develop functions capable of satisfying user demands by constructing various content items into a moving image and adding various effects to the moving image. In the meantime the production and sharing of content by users has become commonplace and such content is referred to as user created content UCC .

With the increasing presence of UCC templates which are tools for helping users to easily create moving images based on their personal content have become widespread. However even though templates can maximize user convenience by helping users to easily create moving images there is a clear limit in the flexibility of templates. Thus in order to create various moving images it is necessary to provide users with a considerable number and variety of templates.

Users would like to produce creative moving images and replace template elements such as background images or stickers with their own pictures. In order to satisfy such user demands it is necessary to develop effective tools for helping ordinary users easily create and organize templates for creating moving images.

In general in order for ordinary users to easily use template organizing tools template organizing tools must be able to create a template with only a few mouse manipulations to operate properly even in connection with moving image generation tools and to provide time structured images so that users can easily perform various control operations such as rewind skip and arbitrary access operations on moving images.

Most organizing functions provided by conventional template organizing tools are classified as timeline organizing functions such as those provided by Flash for creating time structured images. illustrates the setting of timelines for content for creating a time structured image using Flash.

Referring to a user must manually designate a timeline for each object such as a photo a sticker or a background . The designation of a timeline must be performed whenever a new object is added or whenever an existing object is modified. Once the designation of timelines for all objects that constitute a moving image is complete the moving image can be played back in units of frames or a time seek operation can be performed on the moving image.

However it is difficult for non expert users to create moving images using conventional template organizing tools. Therefore it is necessary to develop template organizing tools capable of enabling templates to be time seekable even when the templates are constructed simply by selecting elements without consideration of timelines.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide a system method and medium for organizing a template which can allow a user to more easily generate templates for creating moving images and to appropriately set a variety of attributes of each element of a moving image according to the user s preferences.

Additional aspects and or advantages will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention.

To achieve at least the above and or other aspects and advantages embodiments of the present invention include a system organizing a template for creating a moving image. The system includes a template controller to generate a time tab indicating when to display the moving image and to identify one or more scenes of the moving image by parsing a script in response to a user command a scene controller to identify one or more objects included in each of the scenes and an execution module to define dynamic effects for each of the objects and to load the identified objects and the identified execution module an object controller to create a control code for each of the identified objects based on the loaded objects and the loaded execution module the control code controlling the identified objects according to the time tab and a template storage unit to store the template that includes the script the execution module the objects and the control code.

To achieve at least the above and or other aspects and advantages embodiments of the present invention include a method of organizing a template for creating a moving image. The method includes identifying one or more scenes of a moving image by parsing a script in response to a user command generating a time tab indicating when to display the moving image identifying one or more objects included in each of the scenes and an execution module that defines dynamic effects for each of the objects loading the identified objects and the identified execution module creating a control code for each of the identified objects based on the loaded objects and the loaded execution module the control code controlling the identified objects according to the time tab and storing the template that includes the script the execution module the objects and the control code.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. Embodiments are described below to explain the present invention by referring to the figures.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention moving images may include content elements such as photos or video sequences decorative elements such as background music stickers captions intro scenes and end scenes and effect elements such as transition animation and camera work effects. The transition effect varies the attributes of an image such as transparency when a scene or an object appears or disappears the animation effect varies the position and size of an object over time at various speeds and the camera work effect offers the effect of moving a camera without moving an object. The term object as used herein generally denotes an element of a moving image and photos sounds video sequences backgrounds stickers and captions may be collectively referred to herein as objects.

The template controller may generate and manage a time tab that can be referenced by each scene or object. The template controller may parse a script store the script in a memory not shown and manage the script . The template controller may provide an application programming interface API so that the scene controller can reference the script . If a template is modified by a user the template controller may modify the script accordingly and store the modified script.

The script may be data that defines the whole structure of a moving image. The moving image may include a plurality of scenes and each of the scenes may include a variety of objects. Table 1 presents an example of the script which may be obtained by writing in XML a template and a moving image created using the template.

Referring to Table 1 the term Intro denotes an overview image that may include the introductory message of a moving image before a user s content appears. Portions of the moving image that share the same background are referred to as scenes and users are allowed to view scenes one by one. A scene may include for example a user s photos decorative elements such as stickers and captions and dynamic effects. The term Ending denotes an image that may sum up the whole story of moving images including photos of a user when the display of the moving image is terminated. The same background sound may be applied to a whole moving image or different background sounds may be applied to different scenes of a moving image. The script may display all elements of a moving image using a markup language.

A URL written in the script may be the URL of the object or the URL of an execution module that defines dynamic effects for the object . The execution module may be implemented as an SWF file for example. Referring to Table 1 the URL of a caption may be set as . caption .swf where .swf does not simply indicate the URL of the caption but indicates the URL of an execution module that represents dynamic effects regarding the caption.

In the template organizing system illustrated in the template controller may control the scene controller and the scene controller may control the object controller . That is the template controller the scene controller and the object controller may be arranged hierarchically according to a hierarchical structure of a template which includes a plurality of scenes each scene including a plurality of objects.

Referring to the template may be controlled by the template controller and scenes . . . N may be controlled by the scene controller and the objects including the element cuts the element frames and the element photos may be controlled by the object controller .

In detail the template controller may set a time tab according to a predetermined frame rate. The time tab typically indicates when to display a moving image. For example when the predetermined frame rate is 30 frames per second fps 30 time tabs are set for each second. The template controller may identify one or more scenes of a template and the configuration of the template by parsing the script and may load the results of the parsing into a predetermined memory not shown .

The scene controller may identify one or more objects included in a certain scene and an execution module that defines dynamic effects for the identified objects with reference to the results of the parsing performed by the template controller . The scene controller may then load one of the identified objects and the execution module .

Then the object controller may create a control code for each of the identified objects e.g. the objects based on the loaded object and the execution module . The control code may be metadata which is used to execute the identified objects in units of time tabs.

The control code may be recorded in the execution module which defines the dynamic effects for each of the identified objects or may be recorded in the certain scene which is an element comprising the identified objects as sub elements. For example a sticker having a jpg format may not include a control code of its own due to the characteristics of the jpg format. Here a control code specifying the location size and angle of the sticker may be recorded in a scene which is an element comprising the sticker as a sub element.

A control code may specify the attributes of an object at any given time tab during the display of the object. For example assuming that an object has a dynamic effect and thus moves from a point trepresented by a pair of coordinates 0 0 x y 0 to a point trepresented by a pair of coordinates 5 7 and that it takes the object three time tabs i.e. tthrough t to move from the point tto the point t the coordinates of the location of the object at the time tab tand the coordinates of the location of the object at the time tab tmay be respectively calculated as 5 3 7 3 and 10 3 14 3 . Here a control code for the object may include the attributes of the object for each of the four time tabs tthrough t 3 i.e. the x and y axis coordinates depth rotation angle width height and transparency of the object .

As described above according to an embodiment a control code for each object in a predetermined scene may be recorded in the execution module . Accordingly when an arbitrary time tab is accessed the attributes of all objects in a predetermined scene at the arbitrary time tab may be readily identified using the value of the arbitrary time tab.

That is when a user performs a time seek operation such as a rewind or arbitrary access operation the template controller may provide the scene controller with the value of a predetermined time tab. Then the scene controller may issue to the object controller a request for the attributes of objects at the predetermined time tab. The object controller may read a control code recorded in the execution module and provide the scene controller with the attributes of the objects at the predetermined time tab such as the locations sizes and rotation angles of the objects at the predetermined time tab. Then the scene controller may combine the objects in the predetermined scene and the attributes of the objects thereby obtaining a still image corresponding to the predetermined time tab.

The template controller may operate under the control of the template execution unit the template organizing unit and the template storage unit for example. The template execution unit the template organizing unit and the template storage unit may interact with a user via the user interface .

The user interface may include for example a work zone a scene arrangement zone an object palette and an object control zone .

The work zone is an area where a scene hereinafter referred to as the current scene currently being selected by a user may actually be organized. The work zone is an interface for arranging objects in the current scene and organizing the current scene with reference to the attributes of the objects in the current scene e.g. the sizes and rotation angles of the objects in the current scene. A dynamic effect accompanied by each of the objects in the current scene may not be readily identified in the work zone . The current scene can be readily executed using a preview button included in the object control zone .

The scene arrangement zone is an interface for identifying the configuration of scenes and changing the order in which the scenes are arranged using a drag and drop operation. The scene arrangement zone may allow a user to delete a scene add a new scene or switch scenes using one or more icons not shown that are displayed when a scene is selected.

The object palette is an interface for adding objects such as stickers frames captions and backgrounds to a scene or modifying the objects. Stickers and captions may be readily added to a scene simply by being dragged and dropped into the work zone . Frames and backgrounds may be assigned to a scene one at a time. Thus a frame image or a background image of the current scene may be switched simply by a user clicking a Frame or Bg button.

The object control zone is an interface for organizing the current scene or the attributes of the objects in the current scene e.g. the sizes and rotation angles of the objects in the current scene. Slide bars and icons displayed in the object control zone may be activated or deactivated according to which of the objects of the current scene is selected in the work zone . Thus a user may be able to intuitively determine what attributes can be organized based on the slide bars and the icons displayed in the object control zone .

Referring back to when the user issues an execution command e.g. when the user issues a request for a template preview or a time seek operation using the user interface the template execution unit may control the template controller to execute a current template. The template controller may execute a moving image in units of time tabs that are set in advance and provide the template execution unit with a result image obtained by the execution. The template execution unit may provide the user with the result image using the user interface .

When the user issues a command for organizing a template e.g. when the user issues a request for addition modification or deletion of a scene or an object in a scene using the user interface illustrated in the template organizing unit may control the template controller to modify the script so that the configuration of the current template may be modified.

The template storage unit may store a template newly created or organized in a predetermined file format so that the template may be used by various moving image generation systems. The predetermined file format may be defined in various ways. The predetermined file format may include for example the script which defines the configuration of a moving image the objects which make up the moving image the execution module which defines dynamic effects accompanied by the objects and source data of the objects . The execution module may include a control code for executing the moving image in units of time tabs.

In the above description each of the respective components shown in may be a software or hardware component such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC which performs certain tasks classes subroutines processes object oriented software executable threads or programs.

In addition to the above described embodiments embodiments of the present invention may also be implemented through computer readable code instructions in on a medium e.g. a computer readable medium to control at least one processing element to implement any above described embodiment. The medium can correspond to any medium media permitting the storing and or transmission of the computer readable code.

The computer readable code may be recorded transferred on a medium in a variety of ways with examples of the medium including recording media such as magnetic storage media e.g. ROM floppy disks hard disks etc. and optical recording media e.g. CD ROMs or DVDs and transmission media such as carrier waves as well as through the Internet for example. Thus the medium may further be a signal such as a resultant signal or bitstream according to embodiments of the present invention. The media may also be a distributed network so that the computer readable code is stored transferred and executed in a distributed fashion. Still further as only an example the processing element could include a processor or a computer processor and processing elements may be distributed and or included in a single device.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention it is possible for an ordinary user to easily generate a template for generating a time structured moving image and to set various attributes of each object of the moving image according to his her preferences.

Although a few embodiments have been shown and described it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the claims and their equivalents.

