---

title: Ubiquitous content subscription and delivery via a smart electronic paper device
abstract: A portable electronic paper device can include a flexible display substrate for displaying dynamic content received from a content provider. The device can also include a CPU, memory storage and a wireless communication component for establishing a connection with the content provider. The memory of the device can be loaded with software needed to display the content, such as a hypervisor, a virtual machine and an interface layer between them such that no operating system is required in order to render content onto the flexible display. The electronic device can be distributed to users from the content provider and loaded with an application deployed on the virtual machine to display and personalize the content. Periodic updates can be transmitted from the content provider to the device thereby enabling real-time updatable content delivery to the users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945638&OS=07945638&RS=07945638
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 07945638
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070517
---
The following commonly owned co pending U.S. patent applications are related to the present application and are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 821 673 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING HARDWARE VIRTUALIZATION IN A VIRTUAL MACHINE ENVIRONMENT by Joakim Dahlstedt filed on Aug. 7 2006.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The current invention relates generally to content data delivery and electronic devices and more particularly to delivering dynamic and real time content to users via a smart electronic paper device.

Electronic news and content are well known and have become a standard in the field of communications and the delivery and distribution of information to mass users. The vast majority of companies and individuals today access news content and other data either physically e.g. newspapers and magazines or electronically e.g. online streaming news . Traditionally newspapers and magazines have been delivered via mail or door to door delivery every morning or monthly. This traditional form of content distribution has posed a set of problems and inconveniences however in that the information is usually updated with significant delay daily monthly etc. as well as the various costs and efforts associated with printing mailing and delivering the content.

In the more recent times news has been increasingly accessed by using a computer logged into a network such as the internet. However this form of information delivery has its own limitations such as the requirements of owning and knowing how to use a computer laptop personal digital assistant PDA etc. connecting to the internet searching for relevant news and the time taken to execute these various tasks. Furthermore users are not typically provided with the traditional flexibility and look and feel of a newspaper or magazine which they can pick up read and then casually place at any location within the home.

In light of all of the above it would be advantageous to provide systems and methods that address the issue of delivering news in real time via 21century technology while still giving the end user the feel and look of using a traditional newspaper or magazine. Furthermore a way to provide news and articles simultaneously to a younger as well as older generation of users is desirable. It can also be advantageous to increase the revenue of content providers by decreasing costs increasing subscriptions ads and ad rates and providing various other advantages.

The invention is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. References to embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one. While specific implementations are discussed it is understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough description of the invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention.

Although a diagram may depict components as logically separate such depiction is merely for illustrative purposes. It can be apparent to those skilled in the art that the components portrayed can be combined or divided into separate software firmware and or hardware components. For example one or more of the embodiments described herein can be implemented in an accessible device or appliance with storage capacity. Furthermore it can also be apparent to those skilled in the art that such components regardless of how they are combined or divided can execute on the same computing device or can be distributed among different computing devices connected by one or more networks or other suitable communication means.

In accordance with embodiments there are provided systems and methods for ubiquitous content subscription and delivery via a smart electronic paper device. These systems and methods can be used in various processes for delivering dynamic content such as news stories and articles to a home or business environment. A smart electronic paper device is described which can implement a flexible display substrate that looks and feels like a standard newspaper or magazine i.e. bendable movable etc. . The display substrate can be used by the device to display the dynamic content received from various providers. The electronic device can also include an on off switch a wireless communication card a central processing unit CPU and a small hard disk or other type of memory storage embedded inside.

A content provider such as a newspaper can distribute such smart electronic devices to its customers who can in turn subscribe to receive real time electronic news and updates from the provider. Once activated by the user the device can start an embedded application and begin receiving authorized or subscribed to content over the wireless network card. The content can be rendered onto the flexible display thereby providing the user the look and feel of a real time self updating newspaper or magazine.

The device can be provided at little or no cost from the content vendor and the cost could be made up in the service fees which can be charged monthly. Alternatively the content provider can sell the device for those customers who are interested while continuing regular subscriptions for others. Effectively costs of printing mailing and delivering physical content can be reduced or eliminated by switching to this form of content subscription. The actual cost of the device can be a one time fee only and if the device is lost by the consumer a replacement device may have an associated charge.

Users can subscribe their electronic paper devices to various news channels and topics by using the internet telecommunications or regular mail. For example one user may subscribe to receive the news on various topics while another user may wish to receive various magazine type articles of a particular subject matter. The same electronic device can be registered for any such topic by both users. Because each electronic paper device can be assigned a unique identifier the content provider can customize the data which is delivered to the particular device on a per user or a per household basis.

One or more software programs can be deployed on the memory storage of the electronic device and these software programs can perform various functionality such as customizing organizing and displaying the content received from providers. In some embodiments the software programs can include a hypervisor a virtualization layer a personalization engine and an application in order to display the content data. In certain of these embodiments no operating system is necessary as the hypervisor and the virtual machine can be made aware of each other. Via removing the operating system layer performance can be improved by reducing the required storage capacity reducing latency and achieving higher synchronization of various processes between the application virtual machine and the hypervisor.

As illustrated in the preferred embodiment the electronic paper device can include a hard binding and one or more pages made of flexible display substrate also referred to herein as electronic paper . This electronic paper can be made of a flexible display material such as a plastic polymer which has been developed and is currently being advanced by companies such as the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center PARC and Cambrios Techonologies Corp. In one embodiment gyricon technology developed at PARC can be implemented to construct the flexible substrate. Gyricon technology utilizes a thin transparent and flexible plastic sheet which includes a plurality of tiny beads that can be of two contrasting colors. Electric charge can be applied to such beads in order to rotate them and cause one of the contrasting colors to be displayed to the viewer. Once this charge has been applied the beads will remain in that state until a new charge is applied. Thus by applying electricity at various points of the sheet the flexible display substrate can be manipulated to render content such as text or images thereon. In this manner the flexible substrate functions as a display monitor that has a similar look and feel to paper but can be reused and updated numerous times via electronic manipulation. It should be noted that the present invention is not intended to be limited to gyricon technology and various other forms of display substrate can also be utilized within the scope of alternative embodiments.

In various embodiments the hardware binding is physically coupled to the plurality of pages in order to allow the user to manipulate the electronic paper device by flipping or turning pages such as in a typical magazine newspaper or book. In one embodiment the hardware binding includes an on off switch a wireless card and other electronic hardware circuitry that can perform various operations such as input output display sound and other processing functions. In one embodiment the hardware circuitry includes an Intel type central processing unit CPU and a storage medium such as random access memory RAM a hard disk or some another type of computer memory storage. In certain embodiments it is preferable that all of the hardware be made physically small and space efficient enough to fit onto the binding of the electronic device so as not to interfere with a desirable look and feel of a typical newspaper or magazine. In other embodiments however it is possible to include the hardware components into the actual pages e.g. corner of the page of the electronic device or to situate at least some of the components remotely with respect to the device.

The CPU and other electronic circuitry can apply electrical charges to the appropriate places on the flexible display in order to render the dynamic content as text or images. In one embodiment the text can be easily adjusted to be larger or smaller for users with visual impairments. In this manner not only the content but also the display of the content on the flexible screen can be customized for each particular user.

A clearinghouse company also referred to herein as a content provider can create the electronic paper device and install a hard coded unique identifier into the memory of the device before providing it to the users. In one embodiment a media access control MAC address and or an internet protocol IP address can be assigned to the electronic device in order to uniquely identify it over other such devices. A server on the clearinghouse domain can then associate various types of content with each electronic paper device possibly based on the specific subscriptions registered by the user. This subscribed to content can be periodically e.g. by the minute delivered to the user s device thereby enabling real time updates of information and news.

As illustrated one or more electronic paper devices can be connected to a network such as the internet . In the preferred embodiment the connection to the internet is achieved by implementing a wireless communication component. Wireless forms of communication include radio frequency RF based transmissions such as Wifi Bluetooth NFC cellular telecommunications and other forms of data transmission. In other embodiments wired forms of communication can also be implemented.

In many cases the electronic device can connect to the internet via an intermediary access point such as a cellular telecommunication transmission tower or a home business internet access point . Examples of such access points include routers network hubs personal computers media gateways cellular telephones and other intermediary devices capable of establishing a connection to the internet

The clearinghouse content provider can maintain an internet website where subscribers can register for content such as books magazines news and other information. In some embodiments the content can be pulled via RSS feeds specified via XML or other means from third party data content feeds such as news provider website. Thus the clearinghouse can but need not necessarily provide the content itself.

Once the electronic devices have been distributed the users can begin receiving updates from the content provider periodically or in real time. For example a user can subscribe to real time news which is updated by the minute. As another illustration the user can download a book or a portion thereof to the electronic paper device. If the text of an entire book is too large to display at once on the device a subset of the pages can be downloaded first and once the user has finished reading that subset the next subset can be downloaded and so forth.

As illustrated the Intel type embedded hardware of the device can be installed with a set of instructions to execute various software applications. In one embodiment the set of instructions includes a hypervisor a virtualization layer and standard web application such as a Java application to render dynamic content received from the content providers. Various embodiments also include a personalization engine web portal such as the WebLogic Portal available from BEA Systems Inc.

In various embodiments the hypervisor and the virtualization layer are utilized in order to remove the requirement of a complete operating system residing on the electronic circuitry of the electronic paper device. In many cases it is desirable that the hardware be kept relatively small in size and weight and it may be inefficient to deploy an entire operating system onto the electronic paper device. In alternative embodiments however the electronic paper device includes an operating system as well as other software or hardware features and the present invention is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiment illustrated herein.

In the case of typical computer implementations the hardware layer is controlled by the operating system which executes low level hardware operations as well as manages various applications and other software programs. Often the operating system has a virtual machine deployed thereon such as the Java Virtual Machine JVM which executes various applications for the operating system. For example the JVM interprets and executes Java byte code which has been generated by a compiler. As such in the usual scenario a software application is executed by the JVM which is running on top of an operating system which is in turn running on top of the hardware layer.

A hypervisor is software that has been developed to run on top of the hardware layer and manage one or more operating systems. Examples of such hypervisors are provided by VMWare Inc. Xen or by various third parties implementing the Xen Open Source Solution. Thus in a typical scenario where a hypervisor is used the guest operating system runs on a level above the hypervisor which is executing directly above the hardware layer. In essence the hypervisor is a more basic and boiled down version of an operating system which provides the critical functionality needed to access the hardware. As such by using the hypervisor hardware can be virtualized by having several different operating systems deployed on one physical machine.

In one embodiment the operating system can be removed from the layers needed to run a software program such as a web application. This can be done by directly implementing the virtual machine on top of the hypervisor and then deploying various applications onto that virtual machine. This eliminates a layer needed to execute a software application and in certain cases this can decrease latency and improve performance. For example the BEA Systems Inc. Bare Metal solution optimizes the Java server technology by implementing a hypervisor and removing the operating system layer. More details about this feature can be found in U.S. Patent Application No. 60 821 673 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Operating systems are typically designed for multi user and multi process environments. However in certain embodiments of the electronic paper device it may be that only one process e.g. a JVM or one application need be running on the device at any given period of time. Accordingly the operating system becomes unnecessary to an extent and may possibly even hinder the performance of that process. If the operating system layer is removed the application can be better optimized by having all of the garbage collection be synchronized as one example.

In certain embodiments the electronic paper device can also benefit from such an optimization by saving on the storage space and redundancies which may be present in the large and slow general purpose operating system. For example garbage collection swapping thread management and various other features are often performed by both the operating system and the JVM and in many cases they are uncoordinated with one another thereby causing redundancies and unnecessary latency. Furthermore operating systems typically require a large memory storage and processor capacity which may be undesirable in a small paper like electronic device. By removing the operating system and by making the hypervisor and the virtual machine aware of each other these features can be improved and optimized for maximum performance.

In various embodiments removing the operating system layer and making the JVM and the hypervisor aware of each other can require a thin interface layer in order to enable the two layers to function properly. As one example this interface layer can provide the device drivers for talking on the network or writing and reading I O to memory such as a disk. This interface can also provide context switching thread scheduling TCP IP stack and the standard libraries that the JVM needs to function. This interface layer can be a very thin platform that merely enables and optimizes the functionality provided by the virtual machine. In one embodiment the Bare Metal product available from BEA Systems Inc. can provide such a platform.

Continuing with the illustration the application server or web portal server can be running on top of the JVM which enables display and personalization of various content. The display and delivery of content can be customized to each user by using the personalization engine such as a web portal. There are two levels of personalization of content that can be performed in accordance with various embodiments. At a first level personalization of content can occur at the remote server level i.e. at the content provider by determining which content to deliver to a user based on his preferences as well as determining how that content will be organized prior to delivery. At the second level the content display can be customized on the electronic device itself. For example a user may wish to enable the device to display electronic news on pages 1 4 of the device and his favorite portions of a magazine on pages 5 10. Furthermore the display of the actual text and images can be customized such as by increasing the size font language or the layout format of the text rendered on the flexible screen. In one embodiment the user can log in to the clearinghouse website in order to personalize the content on the device or the content can be automatically personalized by the server for the user. In other embodiments the content can be personalized locally by using the device itself.

As an enhancement to the software loaded on the device the Java Speech Application Programming Interface JSAPI can be utilized for the visually impaired users. The Java Speech API allows incorporation of speech technology into user interfaces of applets and applications and is currently being targeted to the Java 2 Micro Edition J2ME as well as other such platforms. A JSAPI compliant engine could be used by the electronic device to support speech synthesizing control and command recognition and various dictation systems.

As shown in step a content provider can distribute the electronic paper devices to its users once rather than daily or monthly as in the case of newspapers or magazines. In step the users who have received the device can register it via the internet in order to receive personalized content from the provider. In step the content provider can then continuously or periodically transmit content that is customized to each electronic device. In step the content can be received and stored in the memory storage component of the device. In step the stored content can then be rendered on the flexible display of the device thereby effectively providing a real time self updating newspaper magazine or book.

As shown in step a user can register his or her personal electronic paper device with a clearinghouse website. At the same time the user can subscribe to the various types of content via the website. In step once the device is turned on a wireless connection can be established to the internet and in step the device can contact the content provider via the internet and request for any available content. If in step it is determined that no content is currently available the user can be thus informed such as by displaying a warning or error message in step . If content is available it can be downloaded wirelessly to the electronic device as shown in step . Similarly the content can be stored in the memory of the device and rendered onto the flexible display substrate in step . Subsequently contact can be periodically reestablished between the device and the content provider in step . This can be either performed by the device periodically querying the content server for new updates or alternatively the server itself can push the information down to the electronic device. Thus periodically e.g. every second s minute s hour s etc. or whenever new updates become available the updates can be downloaded to the device thereby enabling real time and dynamic content distribution.

Various embodiments of the invention include a computer program product which is a storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a general purpose or specialized computing processor s device s to perform any of the features presented herein. The storage medium can include but is not limited to one or more of the following any type of physical media including floppy disks optical discs DVDs CD ROMs micro drives magneto optical disks holographic storage ROMs RAMs PRAMS EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs paper or paper based media and any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or information.

Various embodiments include a computer program product that can be transmitted in whole or in parts and over one or more public and or private networks wherein the transmission includes instructions which can be used by one or more processors to perform any of the features presented herein. In various embodiments the transmission may include a plurality of separate transmissions.

Stored one or more of the computer readable medium media the present disclosure includes software for controlling both the hardware of general purpose specialized computer s and or processor s and for enabling the computer s and or processor s to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems execution environments containers user interfaces and applications.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations can be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the relevant art to understand the invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

