---

title: Systems and methods for capturing communications data
abstract: Systems and methods for capturing communications data are provided. An exemplary method comprises the steps of: establishing connection with a customer center, the customer center being associated with a communications infrastructure; obtaining information that is related to the communications infrastructure, the information obtained being related to a communications protocol that is associated with the communications infrastructure; determining the type of communications protocol based on the information obtained; determining whether the type of communications protocol is supported by a recording system; responsive to determining that the type of communications protocol is supported, receiving communications data using the determined communications protocol; determining whether to record the received communications data; and responsive to determining that the received communications data are to be recorded, recording the received communications data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08437465&OS=08437465&RS=08437465
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08437465
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
Customer centers typically record communications between employees and between employees and customers to monitor quality of performance among others. Some customer centers have recording components used for such recording that are specific to certain types of communications such as time division multiplexing TDM and Internet Protocol IP . For example a customer center that records TDM audio has a TDM recorder. If that customer center records both TDM and IP communications data the customer center also has an IP recorder that is separate and independent from a TDM recorder. In addition if that customer center would like to record agent desktop screens the customer center would need a screen capture recorder that is also separate and independent from the TDM and IP recorders. In addition some customer centers have both TDM and IP infrastructures associated with recording communications at the customer centers. However there are various communications protocols available that can be implemented in both the TDM and IP infrastructures. If the customer centers would like to change protocols the customer centers may need different recording related components associated with the changed protocol to implement the change which may be expensive and time consuming.

Systems and methods for capturing communications data are provided. An exemplary method comprises the steps of establishing connection with a customer center the customer center being associated with a communications infrastructure obtaining information that is related to the communications infrastructure the information obtained being related to a communications protocol that is associated with the communications infrastructure determining the type of communications protocol based on the information obtained determining whether the type of communications protocol is supported by a recording system responsive to determining that the type of communications protocol is supported receiving communications data using the determined communications protocol determining whether to record the received communications data and responsive to determining that the received communications data are to be recorded recording the received communications data.

An exemplary recording system that captures communications data comprises an interface device that is operative to establish connection with a customer center via a communications infrastructure and a capture engine that communicates with the interface device. The capture engine has at least one interface library and is operative to receiving information related to the communications infrastructure the information of which is related to a communications protocol that is associated with the communications infrastructure. The capture engine is further operative to determine the type of communications protocol based on the information obtained and determine whether the at least one interface library has a set of rules for the communications protocol the set of rules of which is associated with at least one of the following data representation signaling authentication and error detection any of which is needed to send information over a communications channel. The capture engine is further operative to receive communications data using the communications protocol determine whether to record the received communications data and responsive to determining that the received communications data are to be recorded record the communications data.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for capturing communications data at a customer center. In particular embodiments of such a system incorporate a recording system that includes at least one interface library that facilitates receiving and recording of communications data. The recording system can be deployed at a centralized location e.g. within a company premises and or embedded into a network as a service on the network and or as intelligence in the network infrastructure.

It should be noted that a customer center can include by way of example but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center trading center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems are described examples of flow diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which data can be recorded.

Incoming communications from a communications network can be routed to the switch which can route the communications to the computing device and or phones . The communication network can be a Public Switch Telephony Network PSTN and or IP based network among others. The incoming communications can include but are not limited to voice text and video communications among others. The customer center network can include but is not limited to a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a virtual private network VPN and the Internet.

The switch is operative to process the communications at the customer center and transmit the communications to a recording system via for example an IP infrastructure and or a TDM infrastructure among others. The customer center is further described in relation to . The switch is further described in relation to .

The IP infrastructure of the customer center can include but is not limited to a Pseudowire Emulation Edge to Edge PWE3 protocol Session Initiation Protocol SIP and Real Time Transport Protocol RTP among others. The objective of PWE3 protocol is to support many Layer 1 and Layer 2 services over a common packet switched network PSN infrastructure. The Layer 1 and Layer 2 services include but are not limited to frame relay Ethernet Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Synchronous Optical Network SONET and Time Division Multiplexing TDM . The PWE3 protocol defines framework and architecture with particular requirements to satisfy the service specific protocol that defines how each Layer 1 or Layer 2 is encapsulated in PSN frames. Examples of PSN include but are not limited to MultiProtocol Label Switching MPLS Internet Protocol IP such as RTP IPv4 or IPv6 and Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol L2TP . The PWE 3 protocol also defines control protocol to establish connectivity across the PSN.

TDM infrastructure includes a circuit mode communication with a fixed number of channels and constant bandwidth per channel. In circuit switched networks such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN among others multiple subscribers calls are transmitted along the same transmission medium. To accomplish this network designers make use of TDM. TDM allows switches to create channels also known as tributaries within a transmission stream. A standard voice signal generally has a data bit rate of 64 kbit s determined using Nyquist s Sampling Criterion. TDM takes frames of the voice signals and multiplexes them into a TDM frame which runs at a higher bandwidth.

The Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP system can be connected to the PSTN . The VoIP system receives and transmits communications data via gateway router . If the gateway receives the communications data from the PSTN the gateway converts the communications data to digital communications data. Additionally or alternatively the gateway can receive digital communications data from an Internet Protocol Wide Area Network IP WAN . In either or both situations the gateway sends the digital communications data to a VoIP network switch which distributes the signal to VoIP phones .

A recording system can be a single recording server or a cluster of recording servers for example. The recording system can receive various types of communication signals from the communication network and store the communication signals in an allocated resource not shown . The recording system can receive and store for example data from the agent desktops such as screen capture instant message and business data through the corporate LAN audio data from the punchdown block by way of extension taps service observation data from the switch ACD communications data between the switch and PSTN by way of TDM truck taps IP data between the gateway and the VoIP Network switch by way of IP trunk taps IP data from the switch by way of IP extension taps IP data from IP phones by way of IP monitoring media data from the media application server and video conference data from the IP phone . Additionally or alternatively the recording system can receive and store communication signals in either 32 bit or 128 bit scheme or both.

The recording system can further receive various types of external contact center events from the multiple servers . The recording system enables continued use of the multiple servers by receiving the various types of external contact center events and determines whether to record communications data based on the received events. Additionally or alternatively the recording system can receive and store data from media servers with recorder capabilities media server recorder . The recording system includes interfaces that communicate with the media servers recorder to manage the data stored in the media server recorder such as archive data management and search and mine. In other words the recording system can integrate with the media server recorder as a cluster of subsystems. Additionally or alternatively the recording system receives and stores data stored in the media server recorder.

The IP mixer is operative to receive IP stream IP stream and IP stream and mix the IP streams in various combinations. In this example the IP mixer mixes the streams and transmits the mixed streams on channel and the stream which is not mixed with the other IP streams is processed and transmitted on channel . The channels are transmitted to an IP network card e.g. an Internet Protocol Switch Interface IPSI card which transmits the channels on an IP context to the recording system. Each context can have approximately 32 or more virtual channels. A single IP network card may have one or more contexts. In general the IPSI card is a hardware device on a Telephony Relay Service TRS backplane that communicates between the TRS system and IP based phones and or recorders. Alternatively or additionally the IPSI card can be a dual purpose IPSI card that communicates with both phones and recorders or a special purpose version of the card that communicates only with recorders. The IPSI card can use PWE3 protocol or any other IP protocol to transmit voice to from IP based phones.

The interface devices transmit the abstracted information to a capture engine that provides the information to an interface library database . The interface library database includes but is not limited to IP interface library and TDM interface library among others. The recording system determines whether the protocols used in the IP and TDM infrastructures are supported by the recording system based on the information abstracted. That is the recording system determines whether the protocols can be utilized to facilitate communication with the customer center. For example the recording system searches through the interface library database and determines whether an interface library with a set of rules for the communications protocol exists in the interface library database . The set of rules is associated with data representation signaling authentication and error detection that are generally needed to send information over a communications channel. Once the recording system determines that interchanging data with the customer center over the communications channel can be achieved the recording system can receive and record the communications data from the customer center. In general each library includes code developed to interface with a communications infrastructure.

At least one interface library can be stored in the database of the recording system such that the recording system can search through the database to determine whether the interface library can facilitate interfacing a communications infrastructure of the customer center. Alternatively or additionally an interface library can be developed and downloaded into the database to update the database. The database includes but is not limited to a text file eXtensible Markup Language XML file and Oracle or Structured Query Language SQL Server among others.

Alternatively or additionally each interface library can include but is not limited to at least one of a size buffer parameter and a callback period parameter. The size buffer parameter controls the size of the buffer used to hold communications data for each virtual channel. The size of the buffer can be larger than the callback period. The callback period parameter controls the frequency of callbacks. For example each interface library can be configured with one callback per second for each channel. The size buffer parameter and callback period parameter facilitate initializing and shutting down the interface library . The parameters are available for the interface library to setup and teardown any necessary resources for use. The interface library can be initialized and shutdown multiple times during the same process. Alternatively or additionally the interface library can be initialized multiple times without interrupting any functionality.

Alternatively or additionally each interface library can further include but is not limited to at least one of a context parameter and an adapter parameter. The context parameter identifies the contexts PWE3 stream of several virtual channels and facilitates streaming the contexts and reporting errors associated with the contexts. The adapter parameter identifies the network adapters that are used to connect to the network cards. The context parameter and adapter parameter facilitate causing the interface library to begin streaming data via the callback. If the connection associated with the streaming data is lost the interface library signals warning and error callbacks to the main service code indicating that the connection is lost. It should be noted that some forms of IP recording can use the adapter parameter to facilitate connection between the recorder and customer center.

The interface library can receive configuration information supplied by a main service code from a recorder configuration . The interface library can further receive the external contact center events from a customer center. The interface library can signal the main service code via a callback when the communications data are available to be received by the recording system and signals the main service code via the callback when the IP infrastructure is disconnected from the recording system .

Some events include but are not limited to buffer ready partial connection lost all connection lost and buffer overflow among others. In general the buffer ready event indicates that a buffer of the communications data is ready to be gathered and processed. The partial connection lost event indicates that one of the redundant connections is lost but not all of them. The all connection lost event indicates that all of the redundant connections are lost. In both connection lost events the recording system can provide an alarm alerting a user that either a partial connection or all connections are lost. The buffer overflow event indicates that at least some communications data was lost because the recording system was not able to gather the communications data before the buffer overflowed.

The main service code loads configuration information from the recording system configuration and configures the interface library with the configuration information. The main service code further copies the communications data from the infrastructures into a buffer and processes the communications data signals to standby recorders when the infrastructures are disconnected from the recording system and communicates with the standby recorders of the recording system to determine whether a standby recorder should take over recording the communication data from the disconnected recorder. In general the main service code includes capture engine codes that are loaded into the interface library which uses the capture engine code to facilitate obtaining the communications data to be recorded. The main service code is further described in relation to .

Alternatively or additionally the overall architecture of recording the TDM and IP communications data can be potentially similar except for the small differences of the interface libraries . Therefore the customer center and the recording system can leverage the similarities and reduce overall development and costs. In addition this similarity can facilitate either upgrade of customers from a TDM based to an IP based TRS system and allow for the combination of TDM and IP phones and switches at the customer center.

Each recorder can be configured to be assigned at least one identification code associated with at least one context to be recorded. The recorder can identify and record its assigned context by using the identification code. For example the recorder can include NIC adapters which are configured to receive and facilitate recording contexts and respectively. The recorder can include a NIC adapter which is configured to receive and facilitate recording context . The recorder further includes a NIC adapter which communicates with other adapters and determines whether any of the other adapters loses connection with the customer center . If the NIC adapter determines that a connection is lost the NIC adapter takes over recording the communications data from the disconnected NIC adapter.

Alternatively or additionally the customer center can include an in process interface not shown that is operative to change different protocols such as for example from PWE3 protocol to an RTP protocol without extensive development and high cost. For example the communications data can be packaged in a G711 format and instead of sending the G711 communications data using a PWE3 header the customer center replaces the PWE3 header with an RTP header using RTP compatible components. With this capability the customer center can control the changes to the IP interface without having to involve the recording system to a significant degree.

If a recorder loses its ability to record one or more contexts the recorder can communicate with the spare recorder via the pinging mechanism so that the spare recorder can take over recording the one or more contexts. The spare recorder can be configured to not acquire any contexts by default but only in the event that one recorder loses its ability to record its assigned context.

An event interface application of the recording controller receives the external contact center events. An administration application of the recording controller processes the external contact center events . After the processing is completed the recorder controller determines whether to record the communications data associated with the external contact center events . If the recorder controller determines that the communications data is to be recorded the recorder controller transmits start stop commands and contact attributes to a capture engine or an archive . The recorder controller can selectively record one 1 to one hundred 100 percent of the communications data. The recorder controller can use business rule engines not shown to further selectively record audio video the business rule engines of which prioritize events above random recordings. The recorder controller can record on demand allocate optimum recording of a media channel and monitor post call activities.

Retrieve record and administration applications of the capture engine receive and process the commands and attributes from the recorder controller . Specifically the retrieve application facilitates retrieving stored communications data e.g. meta data from the capture engine and transmitting the stored communications data to an application enterprise datastore . Customer center applications can access the information in the datastore for analysis and optimization of the performance of the customer center.

The record application instructs the capture engine to start stop recording the communications data that the capture engine receives from various types of communication interfaces. The communication interfaces facilitate receiving and storing TDM audio IP audio screen data IM chat not shown e mail not shown video conference not shown and or other multimedia data. The communication interfaces also facilitate tapping into the switches of the network e.g. extension taps TDM trunk taps IP trunk taps and IP extension taps and communicating with a customer center to receive the communications data. The capture engine can transmit audio video and meta data to a recorder local storage . The capture engine can be a single platform with extendable interface types. The capture engine includes but is not limited to as many as concurrent channels and can be self sufficient in a closed box with fault tolerance feature minimum connection lost and passive tap sense driven recording.

Additionally or alternatively the recorder controller can instruct the capture engine to transmit the stored communications data to the archive . The recorder controller can further instruct the archive to store the communications data to a local disk tape and DVD . The recorder controller can further instruct the archive to retrieve the stored communications data from the local disk tape and DVD . The archive can transmit the stored communications data to the capture engine which transmits the communications data to a desirable location. The archive can be a fault tolerant storage of contact data and meta data. The archive can manage multiple local storage media or integrate to a third party server. The archive further supports the retrieval of contact data for playback applications.

The local storage interface receives and stores audio video data in a storage medium. The media channel framework further outputs meta data to customer center applications for optimization of customer centers or other applications that utilize the stored communications data. The capture engine further includes a workflow engine that can perform consolidation compression archive disk management and other processes of stored data in the capture engine . The capture engine is capable of content segment recording which can support content level security at an application layer.

Alternative or additionally a customer center may have a hybrid environment that includes communications devices operative to communicate data with a 32 bit or 128 bit packet header the communications devices of which include but are not limited to 32 bit and 128 bit soft phones gateways routers recording system and switches among others. In particular the recording system includes the TDM terminated interface IP terminated interface and VoIP filtering that can receive and record the communications data.

The recording channel state machine manages recording idle state based on commands and tap sense controls from a recorder controller the management of which is generally performed at the beginning and the end of recordings. The recording channel state machine controls tagging of meta data to the communications data.

The control commands from the recorder controller are transmitted by a controller handler to the recording channel state machine . The controller handler can parse commands and maintain connections to the recorder controller . Such recorder controller can direct the recording system based on external events such as Computer Telephony Integration CTI events. The recorder controller can send commands such as start stop and tag among others to the control handler . The recording channel state machine can transmit meta data to the server disk system .

In block the recording system determines the type of communications protocol that is used by the customer center based on the obtained information. Responsive to determining the type of communication protocol the recording system determines whether it supports the communication protocol. For example the recording system includes various interface libraries that facilitate interfacing the recording system with the customer center and recording the communications data from the customer center. The various interface libraries can support TDM protocols and IP protocols. The recording system can search through the various interface libraries and determines whether it has an interface library with a set of rules for the communications protocol. The set of rules are associated with data representation signaling authentication and error detection that are generally needed to send information over a communications channel.

In block responsive to determining that the recording system supports the determined type of communications protocol the recording system receives various types of communications data at the customer center. As mentioned above the recording system uses the various types of communication interfaces for receiving corresponding types of communications data. For example the capture engine can use the E1 T1 trunk tap interface extension tap interface and TDM terminated interface to record TDM communications data.

In block the recording system receives external contact center events associated with corresponding types of communications data at the customer center. In block the recording system determines whether to record the various types of communications data based on the events. In block responsive to determining that the communications data are to be recorded the recording system determines the types of communications data associated with the received communications data. In block the recording system determines the communication interfaces for receiving and storing the received communications data based on the determined types of communications data. In block the recording system allocates resources to record the received communications data.

In block the recording system records the received communications data via the determined communication interfaces.

In some embodiments various applications are able to access and analyze all the various types of communications data from the customer center in a recording system with one repository. This reduces steps that would otherwise be present if the various types of communications data are recorded in multiple recording systems. For example if two types of communications data are recorded in the recording system instead of two servers then applications that analyze the two types of the communications data can communicate access and search in one recording system instead of two recording systems.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

