---

title: Genetic variations associated with tumors
abstract: Nucleotide and amino acid variations associated with tumors are provided. Methods for detecting variations and for diagnosing and treating tumors are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08680041&OS=08680041&RS=08680041
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08680041
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071024
---
This application is a US National Stage of PCT US2007 082397 filed Oct. 24 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 863 106 filed Oct. 26 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 917 814 filed May 14 2007. The disclosures of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in ASCII format via EFS Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Apr. 17 2009 is named P2490R1Sequence.txt and is 993 098 bytes in size.

Cancers may arise when cells accumulate somatic mutations that ultimately confer a growth advantage to the cells. Somatic mutations include e.g. nucleotide base substitutions deletions insertions amplifications and rearrangements. Identification of somatic mutations that occur in cancer provides valuable information regarding the development of cancer. Such information is also useful for the identification of diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets in cancer. See e.g. Bamford et al. 2004 91 355 358. The identification of somatic mutations associated with cancer has proven valuable in clinical settings e.g. in distinguishing patient populations that are responsive to a particular therapy. See e.g. Lynch et al. 2004 350 2129 2139 O Hare 2004 104 2532 2539. Thus a continuing need exists to identify somatic mutations that occur in cancer.

Germline variations or polymorphisms are heritable variations that are present in an organism s genome. Polymorphisms include restriction fragment length polymorphisms RFLPs short tandem repeats STRs and single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs . Germline variations may be associated with susceptibility to certain diseases including cancer. See e.g. Vierimaa et al. 2006 312 1228 1230 Landi et al. 2006 313 521 522 Zhu et al. 2004 64 2251 2257. Thus a continuing need exists to identify polymorphisms associated with cancer.

The compositions and methods of the invention are based in part on the discovery of novel variations in polynucleotides derived from tumor samples.

In one aspect an isolated polynucleotide comprising a a PRO polynucleotide or fragment thereof that is at least about 10 nucleotides in length is provided wherein the PRO polynucleotide or fragment thereof comprises a nucleotide variation at a nucleotide position selected from or b the complement of a . In one embodiment the nucleotide variation occurs in SEQ ID NOs 1 78. In another embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the isolated polynucleotide is a primer. In another embodiment the isolated polynucleotide is an oligonucleotide.

In another aspect an oligonucleotide is provided wherein the oligonucleotide is a an allele specific oligonucleotide that hybridizes to a region of a PRO polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide variation at a nucleotide position selected from or b the complement of a . In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the allele specific oligonucleotide is an allele specific primer. In another embodiment a kit is provided comprising the oligonucleotide and at least one enzyme. In one such embodiment the at least one enzyme is a polymerase. In another such embodiment the at least one enzyme is a ligase. In another embodiment a microarray comprising the oligonucleotide is provided.

In another aspect a method of detecting the absence or presence of a nucleotide variation at a nucleotide position selected from is provided the method comprising a contacting nucleic acid suspected of comprising the nucleotide variation with an allele specific oligonucleotide that is specific for the nucleotide variation under conditions suitable for hybridization of the allele specific oligonucleotide to the nucleic acid and b detecting the absence or presence of allele specific hybridization. In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from .

In another aspect a method of amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide variation at a nucleotide position selected from is provided the method comprising a contacting the nucleic acid with a primer that hybridizes to the nucleic acid at a sequence 3 of the nucleotide variation and b extending the primer to generate an amplification product comprising the nucleotide variation. In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from .

In another embodiment a method of determining the genotype of a biological sample from a mammal is provided the method comprising detecting the absence or presence of a nucleotide variation at a nucleotide position selected from in nucleic acid material derived from the biological sample. In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the biological sample is suspected of comprising tumor cells. In another embodiment the biological sample is a tumor. In one such embodiment the tumor is derived from a tissue selected from the tissues listed in column of . In another such embodiment the tumor is a selected from a tumor listed in column of . In another embodiment the detecting comprises carrying out a process selected from a primer extension assay an allele specific primer extension assay an allele specific nucleotide incorporation assay an allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization assay a 5 nuclease assay an assay employing molecular beacons and an oligonucleotide ligation assay.

In another aspect a method of classifying a tumor in a mammal is provided the method comprising detecting the presence of a variation in a PRO or PRO polynucleotide in a biological sample derived from the mammal wherein the biological sample is known to or suspected of comprising tumor cells. In one embodiment the tumor cells are derived from a tissue selected from the tissues listed in column of . In another embodiment the tumor cells are cells of a tumor selected from the tumors listed in column of . In another embodiment the variation is a nucleotide variation. In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the detecting comprises carrying out a process selected from a primer extension assay an allele specific primer extension assay an allele specific nucleotide incorporation assay an allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization assay a 5 nuclease assay an assay employing molecular beacons and an oligonucleotide ligation assay. In another embodiment the variation is an amino acid variation. In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from .

In another embodiment an amino acid variation is in a PIK3R1 polypeptide wherein said amino acid variation increases activity of a PIK3CA polypeptide. In another embodiment an amino acid variation is in a PIK3R1 polypeptide at an amino acid position selected from 162R 285N 348R 380L 449L 527N 543R 564N 642R 649R 666E 669H and 682A. In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from 162R O 285N H 348R O 449L S 527N K 543R I 564N D 642R O 649R Q 666E K and 682A V. In another embodiment a nucleotide variation is in a PIK3R1 polynucleotide at a nucleotide position selected from nucleotide 895A 1084C 1623T 1732A 1988G 1966C 2038G 2087C 526C 1182A 1388T 1670G and 2047C. In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from 895A C 1084C T 1623T G 1732A G 1988G A 1966C T 2038G A 2087C T 526C T 1388T C and 1670G T.

In another embodiment an amino acid variation is in a PIK3CA polypeptide at an amino acid position selected from 471P 38R 726E and 12G. In another embodiment a nucleotide variation is in a PIK3CA polynucleotide at a nucleotide position selected from 1568C 269C 2333G and 192G. In another embodiment an amino acid variation is in a PTEN polypeptide at an amino acid position selected from 28I 232R 31N 3A and 260Q. In another embodiment a nucleotide variation is in a PTEN polynucleotide at a nucleotide position selected from 1115T 1725C 1122A 1039C and 1809C.

In another aspect a method for predicting whether a tumor will respond to a therapeutic agent that targets a PRO or a PRO polynucleotide is provided the method comprising determining whether the tumor comprises a variation in a PRO or PRO polynucleotide wherein the presence of a variation indicates that the tumor will respond to the therapeutic agent. In one embodiment the tumor is derived from a tissue selected from the tissues listed in column of . In another embodiment the tumor is a selected from a tumor listed in column of . In another embodiment the variation is a nucleotide variation. In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the variation is an amino acid variation. In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from .

For purposes of interpreting this specification the following definitions will apply and whenever appropriate terms used in the singular will also include the plural and vice versa. In the event that any definition set forth below conflicts with any document incorporated herein by reference the definition set forth below shall control.

The term polynucleotide or nucleic acid as used interchangeably herein refers to polymers of nucleotides of any length and include DNA and RNA. The nucleotides can be deoxyribonucleotides ribonucleotides modified nucleotides or bases and or their analogs or any substrate that can be incorporated into a polymer by DNA or RNA polymerase. A polynucleotide may comprise modified nucleotides such as methylated nucleotides and their analogs. If present modification to the nucleotide structure may be imparted before or after assembly of the polymer. The sequence of nucleotides may be interrupted by non nucleotide components. A polynucleotide may be further modified after polymerization such as by conjugation with a labeling component. Other types of modifications include for example caps substitution of one or more of the naturally occurring nucleotides with an analog internucleotide modifications such as for example those with uncharged linkages e.g. methyl phosphonates phosphotriesters phosphoamidates carbamates etc. and with charged linkages e.g. phosphorothioates phosphorodithioates etc. those containing pendant moieties such as for example proteins e.g. nucleases toxins antibodies signal peptides poly L lysine etc. those with intercalators e.g. acridine psoralen etc. those containing chelators e.g. metals radioactive metals boron oxidative metals etc. those containing alkylators those with modified linkages e.g. alpha anomeric nucleic acids etc. as well as unmodified forms of the polynucleotide s . Further any of the hydroxyl groups ordinarily present in the sugars may be replaced for example by phosphonate groups phosphate groups protected by standard protecting groups or activated to prepare additional linkages to additional nucleotides or may be conjugated to solid supports. The 5 and 3 terminal OH can be phosphorylated or substituted with amines or organic capping groups moieties of from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Other hydroxyls may also be derivatized to standard protecting groups. Polynucleotides can also contain analogous forms of ribose or deoxyribose sugars that are generally known in the art including for example 2 O methyl 2 O allyl 2 fluoro or 2 azido ribose carbocyclic sugar analogs anomeric sugars epimeric sugars such as arabinose xyloses or lyxoses pyranose sugars furanose sugars sedoheptuloses acyclic analogs and a basic nucleoside analogs such as methyl riboside. One or more phosphodiester linkages may be replaced by alternative linking groups. These alternative linking groups include but are not limited to embodiments wherein phosphate is replaced by P O S thioate P S S dithioate O NR 2 amidate P O R P O OR CO or CH 2 formacetal in which each R or R is independently H or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl 1 20 C optionally containing an ether O linkage aryl alkenyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl or araldyl. Not all linkages in a polynucleotide need be identical. The preceding description applies to all polynucleotides referred to herein including RNA and DNA.

 Oligonucleotide as used herein refers to short single stranded polynucleotides that are at least about seven nucleotides in length and less than about 250 nucleotides in length. Oligonucleotides may be synthetic. The terms oligonucleotide and polynucleotide are not mutually exclusive. The description above for polynucleotides is equally and fully applicable to oligonucleotides.

The term primer refers to a single stranded polynucleotide that is capable of hybridizing to a nucleic acid and allowing the polymerization of a complementary nucleic acid generally by providing a free 3 OH group.

The term PRO refers to a protein encoded by any of the genes listed in including wild type and variant forms thereof. Such forms include full length unprocessed forms of PRO forms of PRO that result from cellular processing naturally occurring PRO variants e.g. PRO resulting from alternative splicing allelic variations or spontaneous mutation and fragments or variants of a native PRO that maintain at least one biological activity of PRO unless otherwise indicated.

The term PRO polynucleotide or nucleic acid encoding PRO refers to a gene or coding sequence e.g. an mRNA or cDNA coding sequence that encodes a PRO unless otherwise indicated.

The term nucleotide variation refers to a change in a nucleotide sequence e.g. an insertion deletion inversion or substitution of one or more nucleotides such as a single nucleotide polymorphism SNP relative to a reference sequence e.g. a wild type sequence . The term also encompasses the corresponding change in the complement of the nucleotide sequence unless otherwise indicated. A nucleotide variation may be a somatic mutation or a germline polymorphism.

The term amino acid variation refers to a change in an amino acid sequence e.g. an insertion substitution or deletion of one or more amino acids such as an internal deletion or an N or C terminal truncation relative to a reference sequence.

The term a nucleotide variation at a nucleotide position selected from FIG. and grammatical variants thereof refer to a nucleotide variation in a PRO polynucleotide sequence at any of the nucleotide positions listed in column of including but not limited to the specific nucleotide changes listed in column of . For example and for purposes of illustration with reference to column in the fifth data row of a nucleotide variation at nucleotide position 505 of an AKT2 polynucleotide encompasses any change at that nucleotide position including but not limited to the specific nucleotide change i.e. the G T substitution indicated in column . The term also encompasses the corresponding change in the complement of the nucleotide sequence unless otherwise indicated.

The term a nucleotide change selected from FIG. and grammatical variants thereof refer to any of the specific nucleotide changes listed in column of . For purposes of illustration an example of a nucleotide change selected from is the G T substitution at nucleotide position 505 of an AKT2 polynucleotide as shown in column in the fifth data row of .

The term an amino acid variation at an amino acid position selected from FIG. and grammatical variants thereof refer to an amino acid variation in a PRO amino acid sequence at any of the amino acid positions listed in column of including but not limited to the specific amino acid changes listed in column of . For example and for purposes of illustration with reference to column in the fifth data row of an amino acid variation at amino acid position 101 of AKT2 encompasses any change at that amino acid position including but not limited to the specific amino acid change i.e. the R L substitution indicated in column .

The term an amino acid change selected from FIG. and grammatical variants thereof refer to any of the specific amino acid changes listed in column of . For purposes of illustration an example of an amino acid change selected from is the R L substitution at amino acid position 101 of AKT2 as shown in column in the fifth data row of .

The term activating variation refers to a variation in a gene or coding sequence that results in a more active form of the encoded polypeptide relative to the wild type polypeptide.

The term array or microarray refers to an ordered arrangement of hybridizable array elements preferably polynucleotide probes e.g. oligonucleotides on a substrate. The substrate can be a solid substrate such as a glass slide or a semi solid substrate such as nitrocellulose membrane.

The term amplification refers to the process of producing one or more copies of a reference nucleic acid sequence or its complement. Amplification may be linear or exponential e.g. PCR . A copy does not necessarily mean perfect sequence complementarity or identity relative to the template sequence. For example copies can include nucleotide analogs such as deoxyinosine intentional sequence alterations such as sequence alterations introduced through a primer comprising a sequence that is hybridizable but not fully complementary to the template and or sequence errors that occur during amplification.

The term allele specific oligonucleotide refers to an oligonucleotide that hybridizes to a region of a target nucleic acid that comprises a nucleotide variation generally a substitution . Allele specific hybridization means that when an allele specific oligonucleotide is hybridized to its target nucleic acid a nucleotide in the allele specific oligonucleotide specifically base pairs with the nucleotide variation. An allele specific oligonucleotide capable of allele specific hybridization with respect to a particular nucleotide variation is said to be specific for that variation.

The term primer extension assay refers to an assay in which nucleotides are added to a nucleic acid resulting in a longer nucleic acid or extension product that is detected directly or indirectly.

The term allele specific nucleotide incorporation assay refers to a primer extension assay in which a primer is a hybridized to target nucleic acid at a region that is 3 of a nucleotide variation and b extended by a polymerase thereby incorporating into the extension product a nucleotide that is complementary to the nucleotide variation.

The term allele specific primer extension assay refers to a primer extension assay in which an allele specific primer is hybridized to a target nucleic acid and extended.

The term allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization assay refers to an assay in which a an allele specific oligonucleotide is hybridized to a target nucleic acid and b hybridization is detected directly or indirectly.

The term 5 nuclease assay refers to an assay in which hybridization of an allele specific oligonucleotide to a target nucleic acid allows for nucleolytic cleavage of the hybridized probe resulting in a detectable signal.

The term assay employing molecular beacons refers to an assay in which hybridization of an allele specific oligonucleotide to a target nucleic acid results in a level of detectable signal that is higher than the level of detectable signal emitted by the free oligonucleotide.

The term oligonucleotide ligation assay refers to an assay in which an allele specific oligonucleotide and a second oligonucleotide are hybridized adjacent to one another on a target nucleic acid and ligated together either directly or indirectly through intervening nucleotides and the ligation product is detected directly or indirectly.

The term target sequence target nucleic acid or target nucleic acid sequence refers generally to a polynucleotide sequence of interest in which a nucleotide variation is suspected or known to reside including copies of such target nucleic acid generated by amplification.

The term diagnosis is used herein to refer to the identification or classification of a molecular or pathological state disease or condition. For example diagnosis may refer to identification of a particular type of cancer e.g. a lung cancer. Diagnosis may also refer to the classification of a particular type of cancer e.g. by histology e.g. a non small cell lung carcinoma by molecular features e.g. a lung cancer characterized by nucleotide and or amino acid variation s in a particular gene or protein or both.

The term prognosis is used herein to refer to the prediction of the likelihood of cancer attributable death or progression including for example recurrence metastatic spread and drug resistance of a neoplastic disease such as cancer.

The term prediction is used herein to refer to the likelihood that a patient will respond either favorably or unfavorably to a drug or set of drugs. In one embodiment the prediction relates to the extent of those responses. In another embodiment the prediction relates to whether and or the probability that a patient will survive following treatment for example treatment with a particular therapeutic agent and or surgical removal of the primary tumor and or chemotherapy for a certain period of time without cancer recurrence. The predictive methods of the invention can be used clinically to make treatment decisions by choosing the most appropriate treatment modalities for any particular patient. The predictive methods of the present invention are valuable tools in predicting if a patient is likely to respond favorably to a treatment regimen such as a given therapeutic regimen including for example administration of a given therapeutic agent or combination surgical intervention chemotherapy etc. or whether long term survival of the patient following a therapeutic regimen is likely.

The terms cell proliferative disorder and proliferative disorder refer to disorders that are associated with a measurable degree of abnormal cell proliferation. In one embodiment the cell proliferative disorder is cancer.

 Tumor as used herein refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation whether malignant or benign and all pre cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues. The terms cancer cancerous cell proliferative disorder proliferative disorder and tumor are not mutually exclusive as referred to herein.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth and proliferation. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma e.g. Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia. More particular examples of cancers include squamous cell cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma of the lung squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer renal cell carcinoma gastrointestinal cancer gastric cancer esophageal cancer pancreatic cancer glioma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer lung cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney cancer liver cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma melanoma leukemia and other lymphoproliferative disorders and various types of head and neck cancer.

The term lung tumor refers to any tumor of the lung including but not limited to small cell lung carcinoma and non small cell lung carcinoma the latter including but not limited to adenocarcinoma squamous carcinoma and large cell carcinoma.

The term neoplasm or neoplastic cell refers to an abnormal tissue or cell that proliferates more rapidly than corresponding normal tissues or cells and continues to grow after removal of the stimulus that initiated the growth.

A lung tumor cell refers to a lung tumor cell either in vivo or in vitro and encompasses cells derived from primary lung tumors or metastatic lung tumors as well as cell lines derived from such cells.

As used herein treatment and variations such as treat or treating refers to clinical intervention in an attempt to alter the natural course of the individual or cell being treated and can be performed either for prophylaxis or during the course of clinical pathology. Desirable effects of treatment include preventing occurrence or recurrence of disease alleviation of symptoms diminishment of any direct or indirect pathological consequences of the disease preventing metastasis decreasing the rate of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission or improved prognosis.

An individual subject or patient is a vertebrate. In certain embodiments the vertebrate is a mammal. Mammals include but are not limited to farm animals such as cows sport animals pets such as cats dogs and horses primates including human and non human primates and rodents e.g. mice and rats . In certain embodiments a mammal is a human.

An effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic or prophylactic result.

A therapeutically effective amount of a substance molecule of the invention may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the individual and the ability of the substance molecule to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective amount encompasses an amount in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the substance molecule are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A prophylactically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically but not necessarily since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease the prophylactically effective amount would be less than the therapeutically effective amount.

The term long term survival is used herein to refer to survival for at least 1 year 5 years 8 years or 10 years following therapeutic treatment.

The term increased resistance to a particular therapeutic agent or treatment option when used in accordance with the invention means decreased response to a standard dose of the drug or to a standard treatment protocol.

The term decreased sensitivity to a particular therapeutic agent or treatment option when used in accordance with the invention means decreased response to a standard dose of the agent or to a standard treatment protocol where decreased response can be compensated for at least partially by increasing the dose of agent or the intensity of treatment.

 Patient response can be assessed using any endpoint indicating a benefit to the patient including without limitation 1 inhibition to some extent of tumor growth including slowing down or complete growth arrest 2 reduction in the number of tumor cells 3 reduction in tumor size 4 inhibition i.e. reduction slowing down or complete stopping of tumor cell infiltration into adjacent peripheral organs and or tissues 5 inhibition i.e. reduction slowing down or complete stopping of metastasis 6 enhancement of anti tumor immune response which may but does not have to result in the regression or rejection of the tumor 7 relief to some extent of one or more symptoms associated with the tumor 8 increase in the length of survival following treatment and or 9 decreased mortality at a given point of time following treatment.

The term antagonist is used in the broadest sense and includes any molecule that partially or fully inhibits or neutralizes a biological activity of a polypeptide such as PRO or that partially or fully inhibits the transcription or translation of a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide. Exemplary antagonist molecules include but are not limited to antagonist antibodies polypeptide fragments oligopeptides organic molecules including small molecules and anti sense nucleic acids.

The term agonist is used in the broadest sense and includes any molecule that partially or fully mimics a biological activity of a polypeptide such as PRO or that increases the transcription or translation of a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide. Exemplary agonist molecules include but are not limited to agonist antibodies polypeptide fragments oligopeptides organic molecules including small molecules PRO polynucleotides PRO polypeptides and PRO Fc fusions.

A therapeutic agent that targets a PRO or a PRO polynucleotide means any agent that affects the expression and or activity of PRO or a PRO polynucleotide including but not limited to any of the PRO agonists or antagonists described herein including such therapeutic agents that are already known in the art as well as those that are later developed.

The term cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents a cellular function and or causes cell death or destruction. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi P Pband radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents e.g. methotrexate adriamicin vinca alkaloids vincristine vinblastine etoposide doxorubicin melphalan mitomycin C chlorambucil daunorubicin or other intercalating agents enzymes and fragments thereof such as nucleolytic enzymes antibiotics and toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin including fragments and or variants thereof and the various antitumor or anticancer agents disclosed below. Other cytotoxic agents are described below. A tumoricidal agent causes destruction of tumor cells.

A toxin is any substance capable of having a detrimental effect on the growth or proliferation of a cell.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphaoramide and trimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 see e.g. Agnew 33 183 186 1994 dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycins dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE docetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil gemcitabine GEMZAR 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine VELBAN platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine ONCOVIN oxaliplatin leucovovin vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid capecitabine XELODA pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATIN combined with 5 FU and leucovovin.

Also included in this definition are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate reduce block or inhibit the effects of hormones that can promote the growth of cancer and are often in the form of systemic or whole body treatment. They may be hormones themselves. Examples include anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen EVISTA raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene anti progesterones estrogen receptor down regulators ERDs agents that function to suppress or shut down the ovaries for example leutinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH agonists such as LUPRON and ELIGARD leuprolide acetate goserelin acetate buserelin acetate and triptorelin other anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide and bicalutamide and aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole and ARIMIDEX anastrozole. In addition such definition of chemotherapeutic agents includes bisphosphonates such as clodronate for example BONEFOS or OSTAC DIDROCAL etidronate NE 58095 ZOMETA zoledronic acid zoledronate FOSAMAX alendronate AREDIA pamidronate SKELID tiludronate or ACTONEL risedronate as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in abherant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf H Ras and epidermal growth factor receptor EGF R vaccines such as THERATOPE vaccine and gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine LURTOTECAN topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ABARELIX rmRH lapatinib ditosylate an ErbB 2 and EGFR dual tyrosine kinase small molecule inhibitor also known as GW572016 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

A growth inhibitory agent when used herein refers to a compound or composition which inhibits growth of a cell such as a cell expressing PRO either in vitro or in vivo. Thus the growth inhibitory agent may be one which significantly reduces the percentage of cells such as a cell expressing PRO in S phase. Examples of growth inhibitory agents include agents that block cell cycle progression at a place other than S phase such as agents that induce G1 arrest and M phase arrest. Classical M phase blockers include the vincas vincristine and vinblastine taxanes and topoisomerase II inhibitors such as doxorubicin epirubicin daunorubicin etoposide and bleomycin. Those agents that arrest G1 also spill over into S phase arrest for example DNA alkylating agents such as tamoxifen prednisone dacarbazine mechlorethamine cisplatin methotrexate 5 fluorouracil and ara C. Further information can be found in Mendelsohn and Israel eds. Chapter 1 entitled Cell cycle regulation oncogenes and antineoplastic drugs by Murakami et al. WB Saunders Philadelphia 1995 especially p. 13. The taxanes paclitaxel and docetaxel are anticancer drugs both derived from the yew tree. Docetaxel TAXOTERE Rhone Poulenc Rorer derived from the European yew is a semisynthetic analogue of paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb . Paclitaxel and docetaxel promote the assembly of microtubules from tubulin dimers and stabilize microtubules by preventing depolymerization which results in the inhibition of mitosis in cells.

As used herein the term EGFR inhibitor refers to compounds that bind to or otherwise interact directly with EGFR and prevent or reduce its signaling activity and is alternatively referred to as an EGFR antagonist. Examples of such agents include antibodies and small molecules that bind to EGFR. Examples of antibodies which bind to EGFR include MAb 579 ATCC CRL HB 8506 MAb 455 ATCC CRL HB8507 MAb 225 ATCC CRL 8508 MAb 528 ATCC CRL 8509 see U.S. Pat. No. 4 943 533 Mendelsohn et al. and variants thereof such as chimerized 225 C225 or Cetuximab ERBITUX and reshaped human 225 H225 see WO 96 40210 Imclone Systems Inc. IMC 11F8 a fully human EGFR targeted antibody Imclone antibodies that bind type II mutant EGFR U.S. Pat. No. 5 212 290 humanized and chimeric antibodies that bind EGFR as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 891 996 and human antibodies that bind EGFR such as ABX EGF or Panitumumab see WO98 50433 Abgenix Amgen EMD 55900 Stragliotto et al. 32A 636 640 1996 EMD7200 matuzumab a humanized EGFR antibody directed against EGFR that competes with both EGF and TGF alpha for EGFR binding EMD Merck human EGFR antibody HuMax EGFR GenMab fully human antibodies known as E1.1 E2.4 E2.5 E6.2 E6.4 E2.11 E6. 3 and E7.6. 3 and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 235 883 MDX 447 Medarex Inc and mAb 806 or humanized mAb 806 Johns et al. 279 29 30375 30384 2004 . The anti EGFR antibody may be conjugated with a cytotoxic agent thus generating an immunoconjugate see e.g. EP659 439A2 Merck Patent GmbH . EGFR antagonists include small molecules such as compounds described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 616 582 5 457 105 5 475 001 5 654 307 5 679 683 6 084 095 6 265 410 6 455 534 6 521 620 6 596 726 6 713 484 5 770 599 6 140 332 5 866 572 6 399 602 6 344 459 6 602 863 6 391 874 6 344 455 5 760 041 6 002 008 and 5 747 498 as well as the following PCT publications WO98 14451 WO98 50038 WO99 09016 and WO99 24037. Particular small molecule EGFR antagonists include OSI 774 CP 358774 erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharmaceuticals PD 183805 CI 1033 2 propenamide N 4 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl amino 7 3 4 morpholinyl propoxy 6 quinazolinyl dihydrochloride Pfizer Inc. ZD1839 gefitinib IRESSA 4 3 Chloro 4 fluoroanilino 7 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropoxy quinazoline AstraZeneca ZM 105180 6 amino 4 3 methylphenyl amino quinazoline Zeneca BIBX 1382 N8 3 chloro 4 fluoro phenyl N2 1 methyl piperidin 4 yl pyrimido 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 8 diamine Boehringer Ingelheim PKI 166 R 4 4 1 phenylethyl amino 1H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 yl phenol R 6 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 1 phenylethyl amino 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine CL 387785 N 4 3 bromophenyl amino 6 quinazolinyl 2 butynamide EKB 569 N 4 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl amino 3 cyano 7 ethoxy 6 quinolinyl 4 dimethylamino 2 butenamide Wyeth AG1478 Pfizer AG1571 SU 5271 Pfizer dual EGFR HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 or N 3 chloro 4 3 fluorophenyl methoxy phenyl 6 5 2 methylsulfonyl ethyl amino methyl 2 furanyl 4 quinazolinamine Glaxo SmithKline .

A tyrosine kinase inhibitor is a molecule which inhibits tyrosine kinase activity of a tyrosine kinase such as a HER receptor. Examples of such inhibitors include the EGFR targeted drugs noted in the preceding paragraph small molecule HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor such as TAK165 available from Takeda CP 724 714 an oral selective inhibitor of the ErbB2 receptor tyrosine kinase Pfizer and OSI dual HER inhibitors such as EKB 569 available from Wyeth which preferentially binds EGFR but inhibits both HER2 and EGFR overexpressing cells lapatinib GSK572016 available from Glaxo SmithKline an oral HER2 and EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor PKI 166 available from Novartis pan HER inhibitors such as canertinib CI 1033 Pharmacia Raf 1 inhibitors such as antisense agent ISIS 5132 available from ISIS Pharmaceuticals which inhibit Raf 1 signaling non HER targeted TK inhibitors such as imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC available from Glaxo SmithKline multi targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as sunitinib SUTENT available from Pfizer VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as vatalanib PTK787 ZK222584 available from Novartis Schering AG MAPK extracellular regulated kinase I inhibitor CI 1040 available from Pharmacia quinazolines such as PD 153035 4 3 chloroanilino quinazoline pyridopyrimidines pyrimidopyrimidines pyrrolopyrimidines such as CGP 59326 CGP 60261 and CGP 62706 pyrazolopyrimidines 4 phenylamino 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidines curcumin diferuloyl methane 4 5 bis 4 fluoroanilino phthalimide tyrphostines containing nitrothiophene moieties PD 0183805 Warner Lamber antisense molecules e.g. those that bind to HER encoding nucleic acid quinoxalines U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 396 tyrphostins U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 396 ZD6474 Astra Zeneca PTK 787 Novartis Schering AG pan HER inhibitors such as CI 1033 Pfizer Affinitac ISIS 3521 Isis Lilly imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC PKI 166 Novartis GW2016 Glaxo SmithKline CI 1033 Pfizer EKB 569 Wyeth Semaxinib Pfizer ZD6474 AstraZeneca PTK 787 Novartis Schering AG INC 1C11 Imclone or as described in any of the following patent publications U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 396 WO 1999 09016 American Cyanamid WO 1998 43960 American Cyanamid WO 1997 38983 Warner Lambert WO 1999 06378 Warner Lambert WO 1999 06396 Warner Lambert WO 1996 30347 Pfizer Inc WO 1996 33978 Zeneca WO 1996 3397 Zeneca and WO 1996 33980 Zeneca .

 Antibodies Abs and immunoglobulins Igs refer to glycoproteins having similar structural characteristics. While antibodies exhibit binding specificity to a specific antigen immunoglobulins include both antibodies and other antibody like molecules which generally lack antigen specificity. Polypeptides of the latter kind are for example produced at low levels by the lymph system and at increased levels by myelomas.

The terms antibody and immunoglobulin are used interchangeably in the broadest sense and include monoclonal antibodies e.g. full length or intact monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies monovalent antibodies multivalent antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity and may also include certain antibody fragments as described in greater detail herein . An antibody can be chimeric human humanized and or affinity matured.

The term anti PRO antibody or an antibody that binds to PRO refers to an antibody that is capable of binding PRO with sufficient affinity such that the antibody is useful as a diagnostic and or therapeutic agent in targeting PRO. Preferably the extent of binding of an anti PRO antibody to an unrelated non PRO protein is less than about 10 of the binding of the antibody to PRO as measured e.g. by a radioimmunoassay RIA . In certain embodiments an antibody that binds to PRO has a dissociation constant Kd of 1 M 100 nM 10 nM 1 nM or 0.1 nM. In certain embodiments an anti PRO antibody binds to an epitope of PRO that is conserved among PRO from different species.

The terms full length antibody intact antibody and whole antibody are used herein interchangeably to refer to an antibody in its substantially intact form not antibody fragments as defined below. The terms particularly refer to an antibody with heavy chains that contain the Fc region.

 Antibody fragments comprise a portion of an intact antibody preferably comprising the antigen binding region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments diabodies linear antibodies single chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.

Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical antigen binding fragments called Fab fragments each with a single antigen binding site and a residual Fc fragment whose name reflects its ability to crystallize readily. Pepsin treatment yields an F ab fragment that has two antigen combining sites and is still capable of cross linking antigen.

 Fv is a minimum antibody fragment which contains a complete antigen binding site. In one embodiment a two chain Fv species consists of a dimer of one heavy and one light chain variable domain in tight non covalent association. Collectively the six CDRs of an Fv confer antigen binding specificity to the antibody. However even a single variable domain or half of an Fv comprising only three CDRs specific for an antigen has the ability to recognize and bind antigen although at a lower affinity than the entire binding site.

The Fab fragment contains the heavy and light chain variable domains and also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the first constant domain CH1 of the heavy chain. Fab fragments differ from Fab fragments by the addition of a few residues at the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain CH1 domain including one or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab SH is the designation herein for Fab in which the cysteine residue s of the constant domains bear a free thiol group. F ab antibody fragments originally were produced as pairs of Fab fragments which have hinge cysteines between them. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known.

 Single chain Fv or scFv antibody fragments comprise the VH and VL domains of antibody wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. Generally the scFv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the VH and VL domains which enables the scFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of scFv see Pluckthun in vol. 113 Rosenburg and Moore eds. Springer Verlag New York pp. 269 315 1994 .

The term diabodies refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen binding sites which fragments comprise a heavy chain variable domain VH connected to a light chain variable domain VL in the same polypeptide chain VH VL . By using a linker that is too short to allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain the domains are forced to pair with the complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen binding sites. Diabodies may be bivalent or bispecific. Diabodies are described more fully in for example EP 404 097 WO93 1161 Hudson et al. 2003 9 129 134 and Hollinger et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6444 6448 1993 . Triabodies and tetrabodies are also described in Hudson et al. 2003 9 129 134.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible mutations e.g. naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Thus the modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as not being a mixture of discrete antibodies. In certain embodiments such a monoclonal antibody typically includes an antibody comprising a polypeptide sequence that binds a target wherein the target binding polypeptide sequence was obtained by a process that includes the selection of a single target binding polypeptide sequence from a plurality of polypeptide sequences. For example the selection process can be the selection of a unique clone from a plurality of clones such as a pool of hybridoma clones phage clones or recombinant DNA clones. It should be understood that a selected target binding sequence can be further altered for example to improve affinity for the target to humanize the target binding sequence to improve its production in cell culture to reduce its immunogenicity in vivo to create a multispecific antibody etc. and that an antibody comprising the altered target binding sequence is also a monoclonal antibody of this invention. In contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations which typically include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody of a monoclonal antibody preparation is directed against a single determinant on an antigen. In addition to their specificity monoclonal antibody preparations are advantageous in that they are typically uncontaminated by other immunoglobulins.

The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by a variety of techniques including for example the hybridoma method e.g. Kohler et al. 256 495 1975 Harlow et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2ed. 1988 Hammerling et al. in 563 681 Elsevier N.Y. 1981 recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 phage display technologies see e.g. Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 Marks et al. 222 581 597 1992 Sidhu et al. 338 2 299 310 2004 Lee et al. 340 5 1073 1093 2004 Fellouse 101 34 12467 12472 2004 and Lee et al. 284 1 2 119 132 2004 and technologies for producing human or human like antibodies in animals that have parts or all of the human immunoglobulin loci or genes encoding human immunoglobulin sequences see e.g. WO98 24893 WO96 34096 WO96 33735 WO91 10741 Jakobovits et al. 90 2551 1993 Jakobovits et al. 362 255 258 1993 Bruggemann et al. 7 33 1993 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 545 807 5 545 806 5 569 825 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 661 016 Marks et al. 10 779 783 1992 Lonberg et al. 368 856 859 1994 Morrison 368 812 813 1994 Fishwild et al. 14 845 851 1996 Neuberger 14 826 1996 and Lonberg and Huszar 13 65 93 1995 .

The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically include chimeric antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al. 81 6851 6855 1984 .

 Humanized forms of non human e.g. murine antibodies are chimeric antibodies that contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. In one embodiment a humanized antibody is a human immunoglobulin recipient antibody in which residues from a hypervariable region of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat rabbit or nonhuman primate having the desired specificity affinity and or capacity. In some instances framework region FR residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues. Furthermore humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications may be made to further refine antibody performance. In general a humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable loops correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FRs are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally will also comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further details see Jones et al. 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. 332 323 329 1988 and Presta 2 593 596 1992 . See also the following review articles and references cited therein Vaswani and Hamilton 1 105 115 1998 Harris 23 1035 1038 1995 Hurle and Gross 5 428 433 1994 .

A human antibody is one which comprises an amino acid sequence corresponding to that of an antibody produced by a human and or has been made using any of the techniques for making human antibodies as disclosed herein. Such techniques include screening human derived combinatorial libraries such as phage display libraries see e.g. Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 and Hoogenboom et al. 19 4133 4137 1991 using human myeloma and mouse human heteromyeloma cell lines for the production of human monoclonal antibodies see e.g. Kozbor 133 3001 1984 Brodeur et al. pp. 51 63 Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1987 and Boerner et al. 147 86 1991 and generating monoclonal antibodies in transgenic animals e.g. mice that are capable of producing a full repertoire of human antibodies in the absence of endogenous immunoglobulin production see e.g. Jakobovits et al. 90 2551 1993 Jakobovits et al. 362 255 1993 Bruggermann et al. 7 33 1993 . This definition of a human antibody specifically excludes a humanized antibody comprising antigen binding residues from a non human animal.

An affinity matured antibody is one with one or more alterations in one or more CDRs thereof which result in an improvement in the affinity of the antibody for antigen compared to a parent antibody which does not possess those alteration s . In one embodiment an affinity matured antibody has nanomolar or even picomolar affinities for the target antigen. Affinity matured antibodies are produced by procedures known in the art. Marks et al. 10 779 783 1992 describes affinity maturation by VH and VL domain shuffling. Random mutagenesis of HVR and or framework residues is described by Barbas et al. 91 3809 3813 1994 Schier et al. 169 147 155 1995 Yelton et al. 155 1994 2004 1995 Jackson et al. 154 7 3310 9 1995 and Hawkins et al. 226 889 896 1992 .

A blocking antibody or an antagonist antibody is one which inhibits or reduces a biological activity of the antigen it binds. Certain blocking antibodies or antagonist antibodies partially or completely inhibit the biological activity of the antigen.

A small molecule or small organic molecule is defined herein as an organic molecule having a molecular weight below about 500 Daltons.

A PRO binding oligopeptide or an oligopeptide that binds PRO is an oligopeptide that is capable of binding PRO with sufficient affinity such that the oligopeptide is useful as a diagnostic and or therapeutic agent in targeting PRO. In certain embodiments the extent of binding of a PRO binding oligopeptide to an unrelated non PRO protein is less than about 10 of the binding of the PRO binding oligopeptide to PRO as measured e.g. by a surface plasmon resonance assay. In certain embodiments a PRO binding oligopeptide has a dissociation constant Kd of 1 M 100 M 10 nM 1 nM or 0.1 nM.

A PRO binding organic molecule or an organic molecule that binds PRO is an organic molecule other than an oligopeptide or antibody as defined herein that is capable of binding PRO with sufficient affinity such that the organic molecule is useful as a diagnostic and or therapeutic agent in targeting PRO. In certain embodiments the extent of binding of a PRO binding organic molecule to an unrelated non PRO protein is less than about 10 of the binding of the PRO binding organic molecule to PRO as measured e.g. by a surface plasmon resonance assay. In certain embodiments a PRO binding organic molecule has a dissociation constant Kd of 1 M 100 nM 10 nM 1 nM or 0.1 nM.

The dissociation constant Kd of any molecule that binds a target polypeptide may conveniently be measured using a surface plasmon resonance assay. Such assays may employ a BIAcore 2000 or a BIAcore 3000 BIAcore Inc. Piscataway N.J. at 25 C. with immobilized target polypeptide CM5 chips at 10 response units RU . Briefly carboxymethylated dextran biosensor chips CM5 BIAcore Inc. are activated with N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC and N hydroxysuccinimide NHS according to the supplier s instructions. Target polypeptide is diluted with 10 mM sodium acetate pH 4.8 to 5 g ml 0.2 M before injection at a flow rate of 5 l minute to achieve approximately 10 response units RU of coupled protein. Following the injection of target polypeptide 1 M ethanolamine is injected to block unreacted groups. For kinetics measurements two fold serial dilutions of the binding molecule 0.78 nM to 500 nM are injected in PBS with 0.05 Tween 20 PBST at 25 C. at a flow rate of approximately 25 l min. Association rates k and dissociation rates k are calculated using a simple one to one Langmuir binding model BIAcore Evaluation Software version 3.2 by simultaneously fitting the association and dissociation sensorgrams. The equilibrium dissociation constant Kd is calculated as the ratio k k. See e.g. Chen Y. et al. 1999 293 865 881. If the on rate of an antibody exceeds 10Msby the surface plasmon resonance assay above then the on rate can be determined by using a fluorescent quenching technique that measures the increase or decrease in fluorescence emission intensity excitation 295 nm emission 340 nm 16 nm band pass at 25 C. of a 20 mM antibody Fab form in PBS pH 7.2 in the presence of increasing concentrations of antigen as measured in a spectrometer such as a stop flow equipped spectrophotometer Aviv Instruments or a 8000 series SLM Aminco spectrophotometer ThermoSpectronic with a stirred cuvette.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of an agent e.g. a drug to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The word label when used herein refers to a detectable compound or composition. The label may be detectable by itself e.g. radioisotope labels or fluorescent labels or in the case of an enzymatic label may catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or composition which results in a detectable product. Radionuclides that can serve as detectable labels include for example I 131 I 123 I 125 Y 90 Re 188 Re 186 At 211 Cu 67 Bi 212 and Pd 109.

An isolated biological molecule such as a nucleic acid polypeptide or antibody is one which has been identified and separated and or recovered from at least one component of its natural environment.

Nucleotide and amino acid variations associated with tumors are provided herein. These variations provide biomarkers for cancer and or predispose or contribute to tumorigenesis or tumor promotion. Accordingly the variations disclosed herein are useful in a variety of settings e.g. in methods and compositions related to cancer diagnosis and therapy.

One hundred fifty three genes from a panel of 708 tumor specimens were analyzed for variations as further described in Example A. The variations identified by that analysis are listed in the table shown in . The first column of the table VARIANT ID lists the identification numbers assigned to each variation. The second and third columns UNQ ID and DNA ID list additional gene specific identification numbers. The fourth column GENE lists the genes in which variations were identified. The fifth column GENE DESCRIPTION HUGO provides a brief description from the Human Genome Organisation HUGO of each gene listed in the fourth column. See Wain et al. 2002 79 464 470.

The sixth column NT CHGE lists the nucleotide change found in each gene. In this study the nucleotide changes were primarily single nucleotide substitutions although deletions and insertions were also found. The term HETSUB in the sixth column stands for heterozygous substitution meaning that both the indicated variation and the wild type allele were detected in the tumor sample. The term HOMSUB stands for homozygous substitution meaning that the indicated variation was detected in the tumor sample and the wild type allele was not detected in the tumor sample. This may occur for example if the tumor has undergone loss of heterozygosity e.g. where one copy of a given gene contains a variation and the other copy contains a deletion in the corresponding gene . The term HOMDEL see e.g. Variant ID 3561 in EGFR stands for homozygous deletion meaning that the indicated variation is a deletion that was detected in the tumor sample and the wild type allele was not detected in the tumor sample. The term HETDEL see e.g. Variant ID 39041 in EGFR stands for heterozygous deletion meaning that the indicated variation is a deletion that was detected in the tumor sample and the wild type allele was also detected in the tumor sample. The term HETINS see e.g. Variant ID 60761 in CBLC stands for heterozygous insertion meaning that the indicated variation is an insertion that was detected in the tumor sample and the wild type allele was also detected in the tumor sample.

In the sixth column nucleotide numbers refer to nucleotide positions in the cDNA sequences corresponding to the indicated genes. For example in the fifth data row Variant ID 21270 is a heterozygous substitution designated 505G T indicating that a G has been substituted by a T in one copy of the AKT2 gene with the substitution occurring at a genomic position corresponding to nucleotide 505 of the cDNA sequence SEQ ID NO 2 of the AKT2 gene. For each gene listed in the corresponding cDNA sequences and their translations are provided in the sequence listing as indicated in Table 1 below.

The seventh column AA CHGE of the table in lists the amino acid changes resulting from the nucleotide changes listed in the previous column. Amino acids are numbered according to their positions in the translated cDNA sequences. Where a nucleotide substitution resulted in a stop codon i.e. a nonsense mutation the corresponding amino acid change is indicated by an O e.g. see Variant ID 42019 in AXIN1 indicating an amino acid change of 314G O . Where a nucleotide change occurred in a splice site the designation INTRONIC occurs in column six e.g. see Variant ID 3465 in CBL . Where a nucleotide insertion or deletion resulted in a frame shift the corresponding amino acid change is indicated by FS e.g. see Variant ID 60761 in CBLC .

Although the variations described herein were identified in the tumor types indicated in the last column of other types of cancers may be routinely screened to determine whether any of these variations occur in those cancers. The compositions and methods of the present invention are applicable to any cancer comprising a variation in any PRO or PRO polynucleotide selected from those provided in .

The variations described herein are all somatic mutations i.e. the variations were present in DNA derived from their respective tumor samples but absent from DNA derived from the corresponding patient matched normal samples . Generally somatic mutations are those that occur only in certain tissue s e.g. in tumor tissue and are not inherited in the germline. Germline polymorphisms are generally found in all tissues.

Variations were found in genes encoding proteins from a variety of protein families. For example variations were found in a number of genes encoding kinases including receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs . Generally activation of kinases is often associated with cell proliferation and tumor promotion. Thus variations in genes encoding kinases may be gain of function mutations that increase kinase activity. Tumors in which such variations are detected may thus be responsive to kinase antagonists. A variety of kinase antagonists are currently known in the art. Such kinase antagonists include but are not limited to antagonist antibodies and small molecule antagonists e.g. 3 2 4 dimethylpyrrol 5 yl methylidene indolin 2 one SU5416 imatinib Gleevec a 2 phenylaminopyrimidine 1 tert butyl 3 6 3 5 dimethoxy phenyl 2 4 diethylamino butylamino pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 yl urea PD173074 see e.g. Moffa et al. 2004 2 643 652 and indolinones such as 3 3 2 carboxyethyl 4 methylpyrrol 2 methylidenyl 2 indolinone SU5402 see e.g. Bernard Pierrot 2004 23 9201 9211 .

Variations were also found in tumor suppressor genes e.g. p53 and retinoblastoma . Generally loss of tumor suppressor function is often associated with cell proliferation and tumor promotion. Thus variations in genes encoding tumor suppressors may be complete or partial loss of function mutations that decrease tumor suppressor function. Tumors in which such variations are detected may be responsive to tumor suppressor agonists. A tumor suppressor agonist may be e.g. an agonist antibody a polynucleotide encoding a tumor suppressor the tumor suppressor itself or a tumor suppressor Fc fusion.

In one aspect an isolated polynucleotide comprising at least a fragment of a PRO polynucleotide is provided wherein the fragment comprises a nucleotide variation. In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment a fragment of a PRO polynucleotide is at least about 10 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 15 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 20 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 30 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 40 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 50 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 60 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 70 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 80 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 90 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 100 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 110 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 120 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 130 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 140 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 150 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 160 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 170 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 180 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 190 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 200 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 250 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 300 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 350 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 400 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 450 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 500 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 600 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 700 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 800 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 900 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 1000 nucleotides in length and alternatively about the length of the full length coding sequence. In this context the term about means the referenced nucleotide sequence length plus or minus 10 of that referenced length. In another embodiment the polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide variation in a polynucleotide sequence selected from SEQ ID NO 1 78 or a fragment thereof. In another embodiment the complement of any of the above polynucleotides is provided. In another embodiment a PRO encoded by the any of the above polynucleotides is provided.

In one embodiment an isolated polynucleotide provided herein is detectably labeled e.g. with a radioisotope a fluorescent agent or a chromogenic agent. In another embodiment an isolated polynucleotide is a primer. In another embodiment an isolated polynucleotide is an oligonucleotide e.g. an allele specific oligonucleotide. In another embodiment an oligonucleotide may be for example from 7 60 nucleotides in length 9 45 nucleotides in length 15 30 nucleotides in length or 18 25 nucleotides in length. In another embodiment an oligonucleotide may be e.g. PNA morpholino phosphoramidates LNA or 2 alkoxyalkoxy. Oligonucleotides as provided herein are useful e.g. as hybridization probes for the detection of nucleotide variations.

In another aspect an allele specific oligonucleotide is provided that hybridizes to a region of a PRO polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide variation e.g. a substitution . In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . The allele specific oligonucleotide when hybridized to the region of the PRO polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide that base pairs with the nucleotide variation. In another embodiment the complement of an allele specific oligonucleotide is provided. In another embodiment a microarray comprises an allele specific oligonucleotide or its complement. In another embodiment an allele specific oligonucleotide or its complement is an allele specific primer.

An allele specific oligonucleotide can be used in conjunction with a control oligonucleotide that is identical to the allele specific oligonucleotide except that the nucleotide that specifically base pairs with the nucleotide variation is replaced with a nucleotide that specifically base pairs with the corresponding nucleotide present in the wild type PRO polynucleotide. Such oligonucleotides may be used in competitive binding assays under hybridization conditions that allow the oligonucleotides to distinguish between a PRO polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide variation and a PRO polynucleotide comprising the corresponding wild type nucleotide. Using routine methods based on e.g. the length and base composition of the oligonucleotides one skilled in the art can arrive at suitable hybridization conditions under which a an allele specific oligonucleotide will preferentially bind to a PRO polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide variation relative to a wild type PRO polynucleotide and b the control oligonucleotide will preferentially bind to a wild type PRO polynucleotide relative to a PRO polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide variation. Exemplary conditions include conditions of high stringency e.g. hybridization conditions of 5 standard saline phosphate EDTA SSPE and 0.5 NaDodSO SDS at 55 C. followed by washing with 2 SSPE and 0.1 SDS at 55 C. or room temperature.

In another aspect a binding agent is provided that preferentially binds to a PRO comprising an amino acid variation relative to a wild type PRO. In one embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from . In another embodiment the binding agent is an antibody.

In another aspect diagnostic kits are provided. In one embodiment a kit comprises any of the foregoing polynucleotides and an enzyme. In one embodiment the enzyme is at least one enzyme selected from a nuclease a ligase and a polymerase.

In one aspect a method of detecting the presence of a tumor is provided the method comprising detecting a variation in a PRO or PRO polynucleotide derived from a biological sample. In one embodiment the biological sample is obtained from a mammal suspected of having a tumor.

In another aspect a method of determining the genotype of a biological sample is provided the method comprising detecting whether a nucleotide variation is present in a PRO polynucleotide derived from the biological sample. In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the biological sample is suspected of comprising tumor cells. In another embodiment the biological sample is a cell line e.g. an immortalized cell line. In another embodiment the biological sample is a tumor. In one such embodiment the genotyping of the tumor provides a basis for classifying the tumor.

In another aspect a method of identifying tumor cells in a biological sample from a mammal is provided the method comprising detecting a variation in a PRO or PRO polynucleotide derived from the biological sample. In one embodiment the variation is a nucleotide variation. In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the variation is an amino acid variation. In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from . In another embodiment the biological sample is a biopsy e.g. a tissue sample containing cells suspected of being cancerous .

In another aspect a method of diagnosing a tumor in a mammal is provided the method comprising detecting the presence of a variation in a PRO or PRO polynucleotide derived from a biological sample obtained from the mammal wherein the biological sample is known to or suspected of comprising tumor cells. In one embodiment the variation is a nucleotide variation. In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the variation is an amino acid variation. In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from . In another embodiment the method is a method of classifying a tumor e.g. as a tumor characterized by a nucleotide or amino acid variation s in a particular PRO polynucleotide or PRO.

In another aspect a method is provided for predicting whether a tumor from a mammal will respond to a therapeutic agent that targets a PRO or PRO polynucleotide the method comprising determining whether the tumor comprises a variation in a PRO or PRO polynucleotide wherein the presence of a variation in a PRO or PRO polynucleotide indicates that the tumor will respond to the therapeutic agent. In one embodiment the variation is a nucleotide variation. In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the variation is an amino acid variation. In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from . In another embodiment the PRO is a kinase such as a tyrosine kinase e.g. an RTK . In another embodiment the PRO is a tumor suppressor.

In another aspect a method of detecting the absence or presence of a nucleotide variation at a nucleotide position in a nucleic acid encoding a PRO is provided the method comprising a contacting the nucleic acid with any of the polynucleotides described above section II.B. under conditions suitable for formation of a hybridization complex between the nucleic acid and the polynucleotide and b detecting whether the polynucleotide specifically base pairs with the nucleic acid at the nucleotide position. In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from .

In another aspect a method of detecting the absence or presence of a nucleotide variation in a nucleic acid encoding a PRO is provided the method comprising a contacting the nucleic acid with an allele specific oligonucleotide that is specific for the nucleotide variation under conditions suitable for hybridization of the allele specific oligonucleotide to the nucleic acid and b detecting the absence or presence of allele specific hybridization. In one embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment an allele specific oligonucleotide is an allele specific primer.

In another aspect a method of amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a PRO polynucleotide or fragment thereof is provided wherein the PRO polynucleotide or fragment thereof comprises a nucleotide variation the method comprising a contacting the nucleic acid with a primer that hybridizes to a sequence 3 of the nucleotide variation and b extending the primer to generate an amplification product comprising the nucleotide variation. In one embodiment the method further comprises contacting the amplification product with a second primer that hybridizes to a sequence 3 of the nucleotide variation and extending the second primer to generate a second amplification product. In one such embodiment the method further comprises amplifying the amplification product and second amplification product e.g. by PCR. In any of the above embodiments the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In any of the above embodiments the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from .

In another aspect a method of assessing the activity of a PRO comprising an amino acid variation is provided the method comprising a determining the activity of the PRO and b comparing the activity of the PRO with the activity of a wild type PRO. In one embodiment the activity is kinase activity. In another embodiment the activity is tumor suppressor activity. In another embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In another embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In another embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from .

In another aspect a method of identifying an agent for the treatment of a tumor is provided the method comprising a contacting a PRO with a test agent wherein the PRO comprises an amino acid variation b assessing the activity of the PRO in the presence of the test agent with the activity of the PRO in the absence of the test agent wherein an increase or decrease in the activity of the PRO in the presence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent for the treatment of a tumor. In one embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In another embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In another embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from . In another embodiment the PRO is a kinase such as a tyrosine kinase e.g. an RTK and a decrease in the activity of the kinase in the presence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent for the treatment of a tumor. In another embodiment the PRO is a tumor suppressor and an increase in the activity of the tumor suppressor in the presence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent for the treatment of a tumor.

In another aspect a method of inhibiting the proliferation of a tumor cell is provided wherein the tumor cell comprises a PRO having an activating variation the method comprising exposing the tumor cell to an antagonist of PRO. In one embodiment the PRO is a kinase e.g. a receptor tyrosine kinase.

In another aspect a method of inhibiting the proliferation of a tumor cell is provided wherein the tumor cell comprises a variation in a PRO that decreases the activity of PRO the method comprising exposing the tumor cell to an agonist of PRO. In one embodiment an agonist comprises a PRO polynucleotide or PRO itself. In another embodiment the PRO is a tumor suppressor.

In another aspect a method of treating a tumor comprising a variation in a PRO is provided the method comprising administering to a mammal having the tumor an effective amount of a pharmaceutical formulation comprising an antagonist or agonist of PRO. In one embodiment the variation is a nucleotide variation. In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is at a nucleotide position selected from . In one such embodiment the nucleotide variation is a nucleotide change selected from . In another embodiment the variation is an amino acid variation. In one such embodiment the amino acid variation is in a PRO functional domain selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is at an amino acid position selected from . In another such embodiment the amino acid variation is an amino acid change selected from . In another embodiment the PRO is a kinase such as a tyrosine kinase e.g. an RTK . In another embodiment the PRO is a tumor suppressor.

A tumor according to any of the above methods may be a tumor selected from a lung tumor particularly non small cell lung carcinomas breast tumor colon tumor kidney tumor liver tumor bladder tumor ovarian tumor stomach tumor skin tumor including melanoma and non melanoma skin cancers rectal tumor and lymphoma. In one embodiment the tumor is derived from a tissue listed in column of e.g. a lung tumor a colon tumor a cecum tumor a liver tumor a stomach tumor etc. . In another embodiment the tumor is selected from the specific tumor types listed in column of .

A nucleotide variation according to any of the above methods may be a somatic mutation or a germline polymorphism.

Nucleic acid according to any of the above methods may be genomic DNA RNA transcribed from genomic DNA or cDNA generated from RNA. Nucleic acid may be derived from a vertebrate e.g. a mammal. A nucleic acid is said to be derived from a particular source if it is obtained directly from that source or if it is a copy of a nucleic acid found in that source.

Nucleic acid includes copies of the nucleic acid e.g. copies that result from amplification. Amplification may be desirable in certain instances e.g. in order to obtain a desired amount of material for detecting variations. For example a PRO polynucleotide or portion thereof may be amplified from nucleic acid material. The amplicons may then be subjected to a variation detection method such as those described below to determine whether a variation is present in the amplicon.

Variations may be detected by certain methods known to those skilled in the art. Such methods include but are not limited to DNA sequencing primer extension assays including allele specific nucleotide incorporation assays and allele specific primer extension assays e.g. allele specific PCR allele specific ligation chain reaction LCR and gap LCR allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization assays e.g. oligonucleotide ligation assays cleavage protection assays in which protection from cleavage agents is used to detect mismatched bases in nucleic acid duplexes analysis of MutS protein binding electrophoretic analysis comparing the mobility of variant and wild type nucleic acid molecules denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE as in e.g. Myers et al. 1985 313 495 analysis of RNase cleavage at mismatched base pairs analysis of chemical or enzymatic cleavage of heteroduplex DNA mass spectrometry e.g. MALDI TOF genetic bit analysis GBA 5 nuclease assays e.g. TaqMan and assays employing molecular beacons. Certain of these methods are discussed in further detail below.

Detection of variations in target nucleic acids may be accomplished by molecular cloning and sequencing of the target nucleic acids using techniques well known in the art. Alternatively amplification techniques such as the polymerase chain reaction PCR can be used to amplify target nucleic acid sequences directly from a genomic DNA preparation from tumor tissue. The nucleic acid sequence of the amplified sequences can then be determined and variations identified therefrom. Amplification techniques are well known in the art e.g. polymerase chain reaction is described in Saiki et al. 239 487 1988 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 203 and 4 683 195.

The ligase chain reaction which is known in the art can also be used to amplify target nucleic acid sequences. See e.g. Wu et al. 4 560 569 1989 . In addition a technique known as allele specific PCR can also be used to detect variations e.g. substitutions . See e.g. Ruano and Kidd 1989 17 8392 McClay et al. 2002 301 200 206. In certain embodiments of this technique an allele specific primer is used wherein the 3 terminal nucleotide of the primer is complementary to i.e. capable of specifically base pairing with a particular variation in the target nucleic acid. If the particular variation is not present an amplification product is not observed. Amplification Refractory Mutation System ARMS can also be used to detect variations e.g. substitutions . ARMS is described e.g. in European Patent Application Publication No. 0332435 and in Newton et al. 17 7 1989.

Other methods useful for detecting variations e.g. substitutions include but are not limited to 1 allele specific nucleotide incorporation assays such as single base extension assays see e.g. Chen et al. 2000 10 549 557 Fan et al. 2000 10 853 860 Pastinen et al. 1997 7 606 614 and Ye et al. 2001 17 305 316 2 allele specific primer extension assays see e.g. Ye et al. 2001 17 305 316 and Shen et al. vol. 23 Mar. 15 2003 including allele specific PCR 3 5 nuclease assays see e.g. De La Vega et al. 2002 32 S48 S54 describing the TaqMan assay Ranade et al. 2001 11 1262 1268 and Shi 2001 47 164 172 4 assays employing molecular beacons see e.g. Tyagi et al. 1998 16 49 53 and Mhlanga et al. 2001 25 463 71 and 5 oligonucleotide ligation assays see e.g. Grossman et al. 1994 22 4527 4534 patent application Publication No. US 2003 0119004 A1 PCT International Publication No. WO 01 92579 A2 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 027 889 .

Variations may also be detected by mismatch detection methods. Mismatches are hybridized nucleic acid duplexes which are not 100 complementary. The lack of total complementarity may be due to deletions insertions inversions or substitutions. One example of a mismatch detection method is the Mismatch Repair Detection MRD assay described e.g. in Faham et al. 102 14717 14722 2005 and Faham et al. 10 1657 1664 2001 . Another example of a mismatch cleavage technique is the RNase protection method which is described in detail in Winter et al. 82 7575 1985 and Myers et al. 230 1242 1985. For example a method of the invention may involve the use of a labeled riboprobe which is complementary to the human wild type target nucleic acid. The riboprobe and target nucleic acid derived from the tissue sample are annealed hybridized together and subsequently digested with the enzyme RNase A which is able to detect some mismatches in a duplex RNA structure. If a mismatch is detected by RNase A it cleaves at the site of the mismatch. Thus when the annealed RNA preparation is separated on an electrophoretic gel matrix if a mismatch has been detected and cleaved by RNase A an RNA product will be seen which is smaller than the full length duplex RNA for the riboprobe and the mRNA or DNA. The riboprobe need not be the full length of the target nucleic acid but can a portion of the target nucleic acid provided it encompasses the position suspected of having a variation.

In a similar manner DNA probes can be used to detect mismatches for example through enzymatic or chemical cleavage. See e.g. Cotton et al. 85 4397 1988 and Shenk et al. 72 989 1975. Alternatively mismatches can be detected by shifts in the electrophoretic mobility of mismatched duplexes relative to matched duplexes. See e.g. Cariello 42 726 1988. With either riboprobes or DNA probes the target nucleic acid suspected of comprising a variation may be amplified before hybridization. Changes in target nucleic acid can also be detected using Southern hybridization especially if the changes are gross rearrangements such as deletions and insertions.

Restriction fragment length polymorphism RFLP probes for the target nucleic acid or surrounding marker genes can be used to detect variations e.g. insertions or deletions. Insertions and deletions can also be detected by cloning sequencing and amplification of a target nucleic acid. Single stranded conformation polymorphism SSCP analysis can also be used to detect base change variants of an allele. See e.g. Orita et al. 86 2766 2770 1989 and 5 874 879 1989.

The invention also provides a variety of compositions suitable for use in performing methods of the invention. For example the invention provides arrays that can be used in such methods. In one embodiment an array of the invention comprises individual or collections of nucleic acid molecules useful for detecting variations of the invention. For instance an array of the invention may comprise a series of discretely placed individual allele specific oligonucleotides or sets of allele specific oligonucleotides. Several techniques are well known in the art for attaching nucleic acids to a solid substrate such as a glass slide. One method is to incorporate modified bases or analogs that contain a reactive moiety that is capable of attachment to a solid substrate such as an amine group a derivative of an amine group or another group with a positive charge into nucleic acid molecules that are synthesized. The synthesized product is then contacted with a solid substrate such as a glass slide coated with an aldehyde or other reactive group. The aldehyde or other reactive group will form a covalent link with the reactive moiety on the amplified product which will become covalently attached to the glass slide. Other methods such as those using amino propryl silican surface chemistry are also known in the art.

A biological sample according to any of the above methods may be obtained using certain methods known to those skilled in the art. Biological samples may be obtained from vertebrate animals and in particular mammals. Tissue biopsy is often used to obtain a representative piece of tumor tissue. Alternatively tumor cells can be obtained indirectly in the form of tissues or fluids that are known or thought to contain the tumor cells of interest. For instance samples of lung cancer lesions may be obtained by resection bronchoscopy fine needle aspiration bronchial brushings or from sputum pleural fluid or blood. Variations in target nucleic acids or encoded polypeptides may be detected from a tumor sample or from other body samples such as urine sputum or serum. Cancer cells are sloughed off from tumors and appear in such body samples. By screening such body samples a simple early diagnosis can be achieved for diseases such as cancer. In addition the progress of therapy can be monitored more easily by testing such body samples for variations in target nucleic acids or encoded polypeptides . Additionally methods for enriching a tissue preparation for tumor cells are known in the art. For example the tissue may be isolated from paraffin or cryostat sections. Cancer cells may also be separated from normal cells by flow cytometry or laser capture microdissection.

Seven hundred and eight human tumor specimens were obtained from commercial sources. The tumors were subjected to pathology review to ensure sufficient tumor content i.e. greater than 80 tumor cells . One hundred fifty three genes were chosen for analysis based on their potential importance in cancer. PCR was used to amplify exons and some intronic sequences from those genes using genomic DNA obtained from the tumor specimens. Amplicons were sequenced using standard Sanger sequencing and the sequences were compared with the corresponding wild type sequences to identify variations. The variations were compared with single nucleotide polymorphisms in the NCBI dbSNP database see Sherry et al. 1999 9 677 679 and with somatic mutations in the Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer COSMIC database see Bamford et al. 2004 91 355 358 to identify the variations that were not present in those databases and were thus determined to be novel. Variations were validated i.e. confirmed by reamplifying and resequencing the exons from the original tumor samples. Amplicons from genomic DNA of patient matched normal samples were generated and sequenced to determine whether the variations were somatic or germline mutations. The results of the foregoing analysis are shown in which are described in further detail in the above Detailed Description of Embodiments.

It is noted that somatic mutations were discovered in genes involved in the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase PI3K signaling pathway. Those genes include but are not limited to PIK3R1 PIK3CA and PTEN. PIK3R1 also referred to as PI3KR encodes p85 which is the regulatory subunit of PI3K. p85 negatively regulates the protein encoded by PIK3CA referred to as p110 which is the catalytic subunit of PI3K. Activating mutations in PIK3CA are known to occur frequently in colon and breast cancer. Loss of function mutations in PIK3R1 would therefore be predicted to result in activation of p110 and tumor promotion. PTEN is a tumor suppressor gene that acts downstream of and antagonizes PI3K signaling. Loss of function mutations in PTEN would also be predicted to result in tumor promotion.

The present study identified somatic mutations in PIK3R1 in colon pancreatic and breast tumor specimens as indicated in . The positions of some of the mutations found in p85 are graphically depicted in . It is noted that truncation mutations in PIK3R1 have been reported at very low frequency in lymphomas and splice site mutations in PIK3R1 have been reported at low frequency in primary colon tumors 1 60 and ovarian tumors 3 80 . See Philp et al. 2001 61 7426 7429. However the present findings provide evidence for mutations in the coding sequence of PIK3R1 in solid tumors particularly colon tumors at a frequency of greater than 6 .

The ability of p85 mutants to bind to p110 was assessed. Cos 7 cells were transiently transfected with nucleic acid encoding N terminally HA tagged p85 protein either wild type or mutant as indicated in Table 2 below and with nucleic acid encoding p110 either wild type or mutant as indicated in Table 2 below . Proteins were immunoprecipitated using HA beads separated by SDS PAGE transferred to nitrocellulose and detected using anti HA and anti p110 antibodies. Binding of p85 to p110 is indicated as either yes Y or no N in Table 2. In the second row of Table 2 the term p85 Dominant Negative refers to a known dominant negative form of p85 in which the p110 binding domain from amino acids 479 513 is deleted. The remaining mutant forms of p85 listed in the first column of Table 2 were discovered pursuant to this study. In the header row of Table 2 the terms p110alpha E545K and p110alpha H1047R refer to two known mutational hot spots in p110 which result in constitutively active p110 . The results show that many of the p85 mutants discovered in this study retained the ability to bind wild type and mutant p110 except for mutants resulting in truncated forms of p85 that lack the p110 binding domain.

The ability of p85 mutant proteins to form active complexes with p110 was also assessed. Complexes consisting of p85 protein either wild type or mutant as indicated in Table 3 below and wild type p110 were expressed in baculovirus. Activity of p110 in the complexes was assessed using a fluorescence polarization assay with phosphoinositide as the substrate. The assay was conducted in the absence or presence of a phosphotyrosine peptide referred to as peptide in Table 3 below . That peptide corresponds to a phosphotyrosine containing region of Insulin Receptor Substrate 1 that binds to the SH2 region of p85 and enhances the activity of the wild type p85 p110 complex. See Miled et al. 317 239 242 2007 . The p85 mutants tested in Table 3 have mutations in their C terminal SH2 domains. The activity of p110 in the complexes is shown in Table 3. The activities were normalized to the value obtained for p110 in the wild type complex in the absence of peptide. The results show that one of the p85 mutants p85 N564D resulted in a complex with increased p110 activity in the absence of peptide. Two of the p85 mutants p85 R649Q and p85 N527K resulted in complexes with decreased p110 activity in the absence of peptide. One of the p85 mutants p85 E666K resulted in a complex with p110 activity comparable to that seen in the wild type complex. Both wild type and mutant complexes showed increased p110 activity in the presence of peptide.

Somatic mutations were also discovered in PIK3CA and PTEN as indicated in . Some of the mutations in PTEN were found in the same tumor specimens as the mutations in PIK3R1. See . Thus the PI3K pathway may provide multiple targets for tumor diagnosis and therapy.

Additionally analysis of the frequency of mutations in B raf KRAS PIK3R1 PIK3CA ERBB3 and ERBB4 reveals that those mutations are predicted to be driver mutations i.e. mutations that play a causative role in tumorigenesis or tumor progression with statistical significance as follows 

The frequency of somatic mutations in various genes was also analyzed across different types of cancer. Genes having somatic mutations at a frequency of 5 for a particular cancer 10 samples are depicted in . Consistent with the above analysis arrows show high mutation frequency for PIK3R1 ERBB3 and ERBB4 in colorectal cancer.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding the descriptions and examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. The disclosures of all patent and scientific literatures cited herein are expressly incorporated in their entirety by reference.

