---

title: Transistors having implanted channels and implanted P-type regions beneath the source region
abstract: A unit cell of a metal-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MESFET) includes a semi-insulating substrate having a surface, an implanted n-type channel region in the substrate, and implanted source and drain regions extending from the surface of the substrate into the implanted channel region. A gate contact is between the source and the drain regions, and an implanted p-type region is beneath the source region. The implanted p-type region has an end that extends towards the drain region, is spaced apart vertically from the implanted channel layer, and is electrically coupled to the source region. Methods of forming transistors including implanted channels and implanted p-type regions beneath the source region are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07880172&OS=07880172&RS=07880172
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07880172
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070131
---
The present invention was made at least in part with support from the Department of the Navy contract number N00014 02 C 0250. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to microelectronic devices and more particularly to transistors for example metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs and related materials.

Electrical circuits requiring high power handling capability while operating at high frequencies such as radio frequencies S band and X band have in recent years become more prevalent. Because of the increase in high power high frequency circuits there has been a corresponding increase in demand for transistors that are capable of reliably operating at radio frequencies and above while still being capable of handling higher power loads. Previously bipolar transistors and power metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs have been used for high power applications but the power handling capability of such devices may be limited at higher operating frequencies. Junction field effect transistors JFETs were commonly used for high frequency applications but the power handling capability of previously known JFETs may also be limited.

Metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs have been developed for high frequency applications. The MESFET construction may be preferable for high frequency applications because only majority carriers carry current. The MESFET design may be preferred over MOSFET designs because the reduced gate capacitance permits faster switching times of the gate input. Therefore although all field effect transistors utilize only majority carriers to carry current the Schottky gate structure of the MESFET may make the MESFET more desirable for high frequency applications.

A conventional MESFET structure is illustrated in . The MESFET includes a first epitaxial layer of p type conductivity on a single crystal bulk silicon carbide substrate of either p type or n type conductivity. A second epitaxial layer of n type conductivity is grown on the first epitaxial layer . Wells and of n conductivity are formed in the second epitaxial layer . A conducting plane may be formed on the opposite side of the substrate from the first epitaxial layer .

Ohmic contacts and are formed on wells and to create a source contact and a drain contact . A Schottky gate contact is formed on the second epitaxial layer between the source contact and the drain contact and metal overlayers and are formed on the source and drain contacts and and the Schottky gate contact . The conductivity of the channel region of the second epitaxial layer between the source well and the drain well is controlled by a bias voltage applied to the gate contact . For example when a sufficiently large negative voltage is applied to the gate contact a depletion region beneath the gate contact extends to the p type first epitaxial layer pinching off the channel in the second epitaxial layer .

In addition to the type of structure and perhaps more fundamentally the characteristics of the semiconductor material from which a transistor is formed also affects the operating parameters. Of the characteristics that affect a transistor s operating parameters the electron mobility saturated electron drift velocity electric breakdown field and thermal conductivity may have the greatest effect on a transistor s high frequency and high power characteristics.

Electron mobility is the measurement of how rapidly an electron is accelerated to its saturated velocity in the presence of an electric field. Semiconductor materials which have a high electron mobility are typically preferred because more current can be developed with a lower field resulting in faster response times when a field is applied. Saturated electron drift velocity is the maximum velocity that an electron can obtain in the semiconductor material. Materials with higher saturated electron drift velocities may be preferred for high frequency applications because the higher velocity translates to shorter times from source to drain.

Electric breakdown field is the field strength at which breakdown of the Schottky junction and the current through the gate of the device suddenly increases. A high electric breakdown field material may be preferred for high power high frequency transistors because larger electric fields generally can be supported by a given dimension of material. Larger electric fields allow for faster transients as the electrons can be accelerated more quickly by larger electric fields than by smaller fields.

Thermal conductivity is the ability of the semiconductor material to dissipate heat. In typical operations all transistors generate heat. In turn high power and high frequency transistors usually generate larger amounts of heat than small signal transistors. As the temperature of the semiconductor material increases the junction leakage currents generally increase and the current through the field effect transistor generally decreases due to a decrease in carrier mobility with an increase in temperature. Therefore if the heat is dissipated from the semiconductor the material will remain at a lower temperature and be capable of carrying larger currents with lower leakage currents.

High frequency MESFETs may be manufactured of n type III V compounds such as gallium arsenide GaAs because of their high electron mobilities. Although these devices provide increased operating frequencies and moderately increased power handling capability the relatively low breakdown voltage and the lower thermal conductivity of these materials have limited their usefulness in high power applications.

Silicon carbide SiC has been known for many years to have excellent physical and electronic properties which should theoretically allow production of electronic devices that can operate at higher temperatures higher power and higher frequency than devices produced from silicon Si or GaAs. The high electric breakdown field of about 4 10V cm high saturated electron drift velocity of about 2.0 10cm sec and high thermal conductivity of about 4.9 W cm K indicate that SiC would be suitable for high frequency high power applications.

MESFETs having channel layers of silicon carbide have been produced on silicon substrates See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 762 806 to Suzuki et al. and 4 757 028 to Kondoh et al. . Because the semiconductor layers of a MESFET are epitaxial the layer upon which each epitaxial layer is grown affects the characteristics of the device. Thus a SiC epitaxial layer grown on a Si substrate generally has different electrical and thermal characteristics then a SiC epitaxial layer grown on a different substrate. Although the SiC on Si substrate devices described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 762 806 and 4 757 028 may have exhibited improved thermal characteristics the use of a Si substrate generally limits the ability of such devices to dissipate heat. Furthermore the growth of SiC on Si generally results in defects in the epitaxial layers that result in high leakage current when the device is in operation.

In general MESFETs on SiC substrates have exhibited improved thermal characteristics over previous devices because of the improved crystal quality of the epitaxial layers grown on SiC substrates. However to obtain high power and high frequency it may be necessary to overcome the limitations of SiC s lower electron mobility.

Similarly commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 270 554 to Palmour describes a SiC MESFET having source and drain contacts formed on n regions of SiC and an optional lightly doped epitaxial layer between the substrate and the n type layer in which the channel is formed. U.S. Pat. No. 5 925 895 to Sriram et al. also describes a SiC MESFET and a structure that is described as overcoming surface effects which may reduce the performance of the MESFET for high frequency operation. Sriram et al. also describes SiC MESFETs that use n source and drain contact regions as well as a p type buffer layer. SiC MESFETs are also discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 686 616 to Lipkin et al.

Furthermore conventional SiC FET structures may provide constant characteristics during the entire operating range of the FET i.e. from fully open channel to near pinch off voltage by using a very thin highly doped channel a delta doped channel offset from the gate by a lightly doped region of similar conductivity type. Delta doped channels are discussed in detail in an article by Yokogawa et al. entitled Electronic Properties of Nitrogen Delta Doped Silicon Carbide Layers MRS Fall Symposium 2000 and an article by Konstantinov et al. entitled Investigation of Lo Hi Lo and Delta Doped Silicon Carbide Structure MRS Fall Symposium 2000. However further improvements may be made in SiC MESFETs.

For example it may be important that SiC MESFETs have high breakdown voltages and relatively low leakage currents if they are used in high efficiency high power high linearity radio frequency RF applications. In an attempt to provide high breakdown voltages devices have been provided having highly compensated substrates such as vanadium doped semi insulating SiC. These devices typically provide adequate breakdown voltages as well as low leakage currents but may sacrifice device performance due to unwanted trapping effects in the substrate. Furthermore devices having highly doped p type layers under the channel of the FET have been provided and have been successful in providing good electron confinement and low leakage currents. However these devices generally contain excessive parasitics that may degrade the RF performance of the device. Accordingly further improvements may be made with respect to existing SiC FET devices such that they may provide improved breakdown voltages without sacrificing other performance characteristics of the device.

A unit cell of a metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET according to some embodiments of the invention includes a semi insulating substrate having a surface an n type channel region beneath the surface of the substrate and source and drain regions extending from the surface of the substrate into the channel region. A gate contact is between the source and the drain regions and an p type region is beneath the source region. The p type region has an end that extends towards the drain region is spaced apart vertically from the channel layer and is electrically coupled to the source region.

The p type region may include aluminum and or boron having a dopant concentration of from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cm. The p type region may have a peak concentration at a depth of from about 0 m to 0.5 m beneath the surface of the substrate. The p type region may be spaced apart vertically from the channel region by a distance of about 0.1 m to about 0.5 m. The MESFET may further include an p type well region extending from the surface of the substrate to the p type region.

The gate may have a first sidewall and a second sidewall the first sidewall being on the source side of the gate and the second sidewall being on the drain side of the gate. The p type region may extend from beneath the source to the first sidewall of the gate without extending past the first sidewall of the gate. The p type region may extend from beneath the source to within about 0.1 to about 0.3 m of the first sidewall on the source side of the first sidewall. In some embodiments the p type region may extend from beneath the source to the second sidewall of the gate without extending past the second sidewall of the gate. In some embodiments the p type region may extend from beneath the source to between the first and second sidewalls of the gate.

In some embodiments the p type region may extend from beneath a source contact and or the source region without extending to beneath a drain contact and or the drain implant region.

The substrate may include a silicon carbide SiC substrate the p type region being in the SiC substrate. The substrate may include an HPSI SiC substrate.

The channel region may include a first n type conductivity channel layer having a first dopant concentration and a second n type conductivity channel layer on the first n type conductivity channel layer and having a second dopant concentration. The first n type conductivity channel layer may be between the second n type conductivity channel layer and the p type region and the first dopant concentration may be greater than the second dopant concentration.

The first n type conductivity channel layer may have a dopant concentration of about 3 10cmand the second n type conductivity channel layer may have a dopant concentration of about 1 10cm. The first n type conductivity channel layer may have a thickness of about 0.28 m and the second n type conductivity channel layer may have a thickness of about 900 .

The n type conductivity channel region may include a first n type conductivity channel layer having a first dopant concentration a second n type conductivity channel layer having a second dopant concentration and a third n type conductivity channel layer having a third dopant concentration and being disposed between the first and second n type conductivity channel layers. The third dopant concentration may be less than the first and second dopant concentrations.

The substrate may include at least one of n type conductivity gallium arsenide GaAs and n type conductivity gallium nitride GaN the n type conductivity channel layer may include at least one of n type conductivity GaAs and n type conductivity GaN and the p type region may include at least one of p type conductivity GaAs and p type conductivity GaN.

The MESFET may further include source and drain ohmic contacts on the source and drain regions respectively and a recess between the source and drain regions that extends into the channel layer. The gate may be disposed in the recess and may extend into the channel layer.

The MESFET may further include a p type well region extending from the surface of the substrate to the p type region an ohmic contact on the p type well region and a first overlayer on the drain ohmic contact and a second overlayer on the source ohmic contact and the ohmic contact on the p type well region respectively. The second overlayer electrically couples the source ohmic contact and the ohmic contact on the p type well region. The source and drain contacts include nickel contacts.

The source and drain regions may have dopant concentrations greater than a dopant concentration of the channel layer. In particular the source and drain regions may have dopant concentrations of about 1 10cm.

The MESFET may further include first and second ohmic contacts on the source and drain regions respectively a first recess between the source region and the drain region that exposes the n type channel layer the first recess having first and second sidewalls and a second recess disposed between the first and second sidewalls of the first recess and extending into the n type conductivity channel layer. The gate contact may be in the second recess. A p type well region extends from the surface of the substrate to the p type region and a third ohmic contact is on the p type well region.

The n type conductivity channel region may include first and second conductivity layers the first recess may extend through the first n type conductivity channel layer to the second n type conductivity channel layer and may expose the second n type conductivity channel layer. The second recess may extend into the second n type conductivity layer. In particular the second recess may extend about 600 into the second n type conductivity region. The gate may have a length from about 0.4 m to about 0.7 m. The distance from the source to the gate may be from about 0.5 m to about 0.7 m and or the distance from the drain to the gate may be from about 1.5 m to about 2 m.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a MESFET including a plurality of unit cells as described above in which a distance from a first gate to a second gate may be from about 20 m to about 150 m.

Methods of forming a metal semiconductor field effect transistor according to some embodiments of the invention include forming spaced apart source and drain regions in a semi insulating substrate implanting first impurity atoms to form an implanted n type channel region at a surface of the semi insulating substrate the spaced apart source and drain regions extend into the channel region implanting second impurity atoms to form an implanted p type region beneath the n type channel region annealing the implanted first and second impurity atoms and forming a gate contact on the semi insulating substrate between the source and drain regions. In some embodiments the first and second impurity atoms may be annealed separately.

Implanting the first impurity atoms may be performed at a temperature above room temperature. For example implanting the first impurity atoms may be performed at a temperature of at least about 1100 C. In further embodiments annealing the implanted first and second impurity atoms may be performed at a temperature of at least about 1400 C. Further annealing the implanted first and second impurity atoms may be performed at a temperature of from about 1400 C. to about 1700 C. In particular embodiments annealing the implanted first and second impurity atoms may be performed at a temperature of about 1600 C. Annealing the implanted first and second impurity atoms may be performed for about 5 minutes to about 30 minutes.

The methods may further include forming a recess in the semi insulating substrate and forming the gate contact may include forming the gate contact in the recess.

The implanted p type region may be spaced apart vertically from the channel region by a distance of from about 0.1 to 0.5 m.

Forming the channel region may include forming a first channel region having a first dopant concentration and a second channel region on the first channel region and having a second dopant concentration that may be different from the first dopant concentration. The first dopant concentration may be about 3 10cmand the second dopant concentration may be about 1 10cm.

The methods may further include forming a first recess extending through the second channel region to the first channel region so that the first channel region may be exposed and forming a second recess extending into the first channel region. The channel region may further include a third channel region having a third dopant concentration. Forming the gate contact may include forming the gate contact in the second recess.

The semi insulating substrate may include a semi insulating silicon carbide substrate. The first impurity atoms include nitrogen or phosphorus and the second impurity atoms include boron and or aluminum.

The methods may further include implanting third impurity atoms to form a p type well region extending from a surface of the substrate to the implanted p type region. The third impurity atoms include boron and or aluminum. The methods may further include forming an ohmic contact to the p type well region forming an ohmic contact to the source region and forming a metal overlayer contacting the ohmic contact to the p type well region and the ohmic contact to the source region to thereby electrically connect the p type well region to the source region.

The gate contact may have a first sidewall and a second sidewall the first sidewall being on the source side of the gate and the second sidewall being on the drain side of the gate. Forming the p type region may include forming the p type region to extend from beneath the source to the first sidewall of the gate without extending past the first sidewall of the gate.

The gate contact may have a first sidewall and a second sidewall the first sidewall being on the source side of the gate and the second sidewall being on the drain side of the gate and forming the p type region may include forming the p type region extending from beneath the source to within about 0.1 to about 0.3 m of the first sidewall of the gate on the source side of the first sidewall. In some embodiments forming the p type region may include forming the p type region extending from beneath the source to the second sidewall of the gate without extending past the second sidewall of the gate. In some embodiments forming the p type region may include forming the p type region extending from beneath the source to between the first and second sidewalls of the gate.

In further embodiments forming the p type region may include forming the p type region extending from beneath a source contact and or a source implant region without extending to beneath a drain contact. In still further embodiments forming the p type region may include forming the p type region extending from beneath a source contact and or a source implant region without extending to beneath a drain implant region.

The methods may further include forming a first recess between the source and the drain that extends into the n type conductivity channel layer the gate being formed in the first recess and extending into the n type conductivity channel layer forming an oxide layer on the n type conductivity channel layer and in the first recess and forming first and second ohmic contacts on the n type channel layer that respectively define the source and the drain. A p type well region is formed that extends from a surface of the substrate to the p type region and a third ohmic contact is formed on the p type well region.

The invention is described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first and second are used herein to describe various regions layers and or sections these regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second region layer or section and similarly a second region layer or section may be termed a first region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom or upper or top or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompasses both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a binary change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As used herein the term ohmic contact refers to contacts where an impedance associated therewith is substantially given by the relationship of Impedance V I where V is a voltage across the contact and I is the current at substantially all expected operating frequencies i.e. the impedance associated with the ohmic contact is substantially the same at all operating frequencies and currents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail below with reference to figures that illustrate various embodiments of the present invention and various processes of fabricating embodiments of the present invention. Transistors for example a metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs according to some embodiments of the present invention may be provided having p type conductivity regions beneath the source regions of the MESFET having ends that extend toward the drain regions of the MESFET. MESFETs having p type conductivity regions beneath the source regions are discussed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 956 239 entitled Transistors Having Buried P Type Layers Beneath The Source Region And Methods Of Fabricating The Same the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. As described therein the presence of the buried p type conductivity region may provide for example devices having improved breakdown voltages without compromising other performance characteristics of the device.

However formation of a conventional MESFET including a buried p type region may involve a number of semiconductor processing steps including multiple implantation steps as well as epitaxial growth regrowth steps. In particular epitaxial growth steps involved in the fabrication of a transistor may have a number of drawbacks. For example in order to grow lattice matched epitaxial layers of the correct polytype on silicon carbide a silicon carbide boule is typically cut at an angle to form an off axis wafer. The off axis angle of the resulting wafer enables step flow growth of epitaxial layers therefrom and provides polytype information to the growing epitaxial layer. However slicing a boule off axis results in the yield of fewer wafers per boule since the boule is cut diagonally. Doping uniformity may also be a problem for off axis wafers since portions of the same wafer are formed at different times under different growth conditions. These problems may be especially significant in the manufacture of high purity semi insulating wafers as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 218 680. Furthermore the problem is exacerbated as wafer diameters increase.

A further problem associated with epitaxial growth is that the epitaxial layers may obscure alignment marks that are used to align the implanted regions of the device. For example the buried p region may be formed before epitaxial growth of the channel layer. The geometry of the channel layer may be defined with reference to alignment marks associated with the p region which may be blurred or otherwise obscured by the epitaxial layer itself. Accordingly misalignment may occur between the buried p region and the source and drain regions of the device.

A transistor structure according to some embodiments of the invention is shown in . As seen in a substrate is provided. The substrate may be a semi insulating single crystal bulk silicon carbide SiC substrate. In particular the substrate may be a high purity semi insulating HPSI SiC substrate formed as described for example in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 218 680. HPSI substrates are available from Cree Inc. Durham N.C.

A source implant region a drain implant region and an implanted channel region are provided in the substrate . The source implant region and the drain implant region extend from an upper surface A of the substrate into the implanted channel region . Source and drain contacts are provided on the source implant region and the drain implant region respectively. A gate contact also extends into the implanted channel region in a first recess between the source implant region and the drain implant region . The first recess may extend to into the channel layer . The first recess may be formed for example by partially etching the substrate into the channel layer . The first recess may be formed by an etching process such as a dry or wet etch process. For example the first recess may be formed by a dry etching process such as Electron Cyclotron Resonance ECR or Inductively Coupled Plasma ICP etching. Techniques for etching silicon carbide are well known in the art. Since the conductivity and or the location of the implanted channel layer may be accurately controlled by utilizing embodiments of the present invention etching the first recess may be more easily performed. For example a timed etch may be performed to form the first recess which may avoid the need for repeatedly etching the recess and testing the sheet resistance of the channel region after each iteration to determine if the etch process should be repeated.

A buried p region is provided beneath the source implant region of the device . The p region has an end A that extends towards the drain implant region of the device . In some embodiments of the present invention the p region may extend from beneath the source contact and or from beneath an n source implant region without extending to beneath an n drain implant region . In further embodiments of the present invention the p region may extend from beneath the source contact and or from beneath the n source implant region without extending to beneath a drain contact . In still further embodiments the p region may further extend from beneath the source contact and or from beneath the n source implant region to the first sidewall of the gate without extending past the first sidewall of the gate from beneath the source contact and or from beneath the n source implant region to the second sidewall of the gate without extending past the second sidewall of the gate or from beneath the source contact and or from beneath the n source implant region to a point between the first sidewall and the second sidewall of the gate as illustrated in . In certain embodiments of the present invention the p region may extend to a point within about 0.1 to about 0.3 m of the first sidewall of the gate on the source side.

For the p region dopant concentrations of from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cmmay be suitable but dopant concentrations as high as possible may be used. The dopant concentration may not be constant throughout the p region . The presence of the p region beneath the source region may inhibit electron injection from the source thus possibly providing an improved breakdown voltage. Furthermore the fact that the p region does not extend to beneath the drain region may reduce the introduction of parasitics into the device and thus device performance may not be influenced. The p region may be formed to have a peak dopant concentration located at a depth of from about 0.3 m to about 0.8 m beneath the surface A of the substrate . In particular the p region may have a peak concentration located at a depth of about 0.7 m from the surface A of the substrate . The p region may have a thickness of about 0.5 m. The p region may be spaced apart vertically from the implanted channel region by a distance h of from about 0.1 m to about 0.5 m. In particular the p region may be spaced apart vertically from the implanted channel region by about 0.5 m. Furthermore the implanted n type channel layer may be formed to have a peak concentration located about 0.2 m from the surface A of the substrate .

Still referring to n source and drain implant regions and are provided in the source and drain regions of the device respectively. Regions and are typically of n type conductivity silicon carbide and have dopant concentrations that are greater than the dopant concentration of the implanted n type conductivity channel layer . For the n regions and dopant concentrations of about 1 10cmmay be suitable but dopant concentrations as high as possible may be used. Source and drain implant regions may be formed for example using selectively implanted phosphorus atoms.

Ohmic contacts and are provided on the implanted regions and respectively and are spaced apart so as to provide the source contact and the drain contact . An ohmic contact is provided on a p well region that extends from a surface A of the substrate to the buried p region . The ohmic contacts and may be formed of nickel or other suitable metals. The p region may be maintained at the same potential as the source by for example electrically coupling the p ohmic contact to the source contact using a metal overlayer . An insulator layer such as an oxide may be further provided on the exposed surface of the device.

The gate contact may be provided in the first recess between the source implant region and the drain implant region . The gate contact may be formed of chromium platinum platinum silicide nickel and or TiWN however other metals such as gold known to one skilled in the art to achieve the Schottky effect may be used. The Schottky gate contact typically has a three layer structure. For example the gate contact can optionally include a first gate layer of chromium Cr contacting the n type conductivity channel layer . Such a structure may have advantages because of the high adhesion of chromium Cr . The gate contact may further include an overlayer of platinum Pt and gold or other highly conductive metal. Alternatively the gate contact may include a first layer of nickel in the first recess on the n type conductivity channel layer .

As further illustrated in metal overlayers may be provided on the source and well region contacts and and the drain contact respectively. The overlayers may be gold silver aluminum platinum and or copper. Other suitable highly conductive metals may also be used for the overlayer. Furthermore the metal overlayer may electrically couple the well region contact to the source contact .

In selecting the dimensions of the MESFET the width of the gate is defined as the dimension of the gate perpendicular to the flow of current. As shown in the cross section of the gate width runs into and out of the page. The length of the gate is the dimension of the gate parallel to the flow of current. As seen in the cross sectional views of the gate length is the dimension of the gate that is in contact with the n type conductivity channel layer . For example the gate length of the MESFET according to certain embodiments of the present invention may be from about 0.4 m to about 0.7 m. Another important dimension is the source to gate distance which is shown in the cross section of as the distance from the source contact or the n region to the gate contact . The source to gate distance according to certain embodiments of the present invention may be from about 0.5 m to about 0.7 m. Furthermore the distance from the drain to the gate may be from about 1.5 m to about 2 m. Embodiments of the present invention may further include a plurality of unit cells of MESFETs and the distance from a first gate of the unit cells to a second gate may be for example from about 20 m to about 50 m.

The p region may be formed by implantation of boron and or aluminum atoms. In particular it may be possible to implant boron and or aluminum into a SiC substrate at a suitable depth to form the p region beneath the source implant region . It will be appreciated that it may be difficult to implant aluminum at depths sufficient to create the p region without having to perform epitaxial regrowth in order to provide adequate separation between the p region and the source implant region . However some embodiments provide implant conditions for aluminum that permit implantation of aluminum at depths sufficient to create the p region .

In some embodiments of the invention the p region may be formed by implanting boron atoms into a silicon carbide substrate at an energy of 380 keV and a dose of about 1 10to about 1 10atoms cm. In some embodiments of the invention the p region may be formed by implanting boron atoms into a silicon carbide substrate at an energy of 380 keV and a dose of about 2 10atoms cm. In some embodiments of the invention the p region may be formed by implanting aluminum atoms into a silicon carbide substrate at an energy of 380 keV and a dose of about 2 10atoms cm.

Referring again to the p well region may also be formed using implanted boron and or aluminum atoms. For example the p well region may be formed using a series of implants at different implant energies to provide a desired doping profile that extends from the surface A of the substrate to the p region .

An n type impurity such as nitrogen and or phosphorus may be implanted into the substrate to form an implanted channel layer therein. The implanted channel layer may have a dopant concentration greater than about 1 10cm and may have a peak dopant concentration in a range of from about 3 10cmto about 2 10cm. In particular embodiments the implanted channel region may have a peak dopant concentration of about 1 10cm. The implanted channel region may have a thickness of from about 50 nm to about 300 nm. In particular embodiments the implanted channel region has a thickness of about 100 nm. The peak concentration of implanted dopant atoms may be located about 60 nm to 200 nm from the surface of the substrate . In particular embodiments the peak concentration of implanted dopant atoms may be located about 150 nm from the surface of the substrate .

Conventionally implanted channel layers have not been used in SiC MESFETs because of the reduced carrier mobility resulting from damage to the semiconductor lattice caused by the implantation process. However embodiments of the present invention may employ a low damage implant process to form implanted channel regions having acceptable mobility sheet resistance and or other properties.

Since the channel layer of a device according to some embodiments of the invention is implanted many different dopant profiles can be accurately and repeatably created within the channel layer . Accordingly operational properties of MESFET devices according to some embodiments of the invention may be more accurately controlled and or engineered compared to conventional MESFET structures in which the channel region is doped during epitaxial growth.

For example referring to a device according to some embodiments of the invention may include an n type conductivity channel layer including a first n type conductivity sublayer A and a second n type conductivity sublayer B. The gate contact may extend into the first n type conductivity sublayer A. The first n type conductivity sublayer A may have a higher dopant concentration than the second n type conductivity sublayer B.

Transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may include a double recessed structure including first and second recesses as illustrated in . In particular in a device according to some embodiments of the invention a first recess has a floor that extends into a first n type conductivity channel layer A. A second recess is provided between the sidewalls of the first recess . The second recess extends into the second n type conductivity channel layer B by for example a distance of about 600 . The gate may be disposed in the second recess . A double recessed structure is discussed further in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 136 456 to Sriram the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth herein.

In further embodiments the n type conductivity channel layer may include first second and third layers of n type conductivity SiC as discussed in detail in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 136 456 to Sriram the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. For example as shown in a device includes an n type channel region that includes a first sublayer A a second sublayer B and a third sublayer C disposed between the first and third sublayers A B.

Delta doping of channels may be accomplished more accurately and or reliably according to some embodiments of the invention. For example the implanted channel layer of the device may have a dual peak configuration. That is the implanted channel layer may include a pair of dopant concentration peaks formed in multiple implant steps corresponding to the first and second n type conductivity sublayers A B. The first and second n type conductivity sublayers A B may be spaced apart from one another to provide a channel region having first second and third sublayers A B C similar to the structure described in the above referenced U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 136 456. The first sublayer A may have a first dopant concentration the second sublayer B may have a second dopant concentration and the third sublayer C disposed between the first and second sublayers A B may have a third dopant concentration that is less than the first and second dopant concentrations. In brief the more highly doped regions i.e. the first and second sublayers A B near the concentration peaks may act as carrier supply regions for the central sublayer C of relatively low dopant concentration between the two dopant peaks. The centrally located third sublayer C may have increased mobility compared to the more highly doped first and second sublayers A B which may result in improved device performance. The gate contact may extend to into the third sublayer C.

Ion implantation is a well known method of doping a semiconductor layer with impurities. Ion implantation is useful for selective doping of crystalline material in order to form desired regions in the material such as p n junctions highly conductive contact regions field spreading regions etc. In an ion implantation process ionized impurity atoms are accelerated through an electric field towards a target layer where they become embedded. The number of ions per unit area directed at a target layer is referred to as the dose which is typically expressed in ions cm. The ions are accelerated at an energy level typically expressed in electron volts eV . The distribution of ions in the implanted layer depends on the dose and energy of the implant sometimes referred to as the implant conditions as well as the type of ions implanted the type of material the ions are implanted into the angle of the implants and other factors. In each implant step the implanted ions typically form a concentration distribution that has a peak concentration at a particular depth i.e. the implant range . Multiple implant steps may be performed using different implant conditions to build up a desired dopant concentration profile.

Typically after impurities are implanted into a semiconductor layer it is desirable to anneal the implanted impurities at a high temperature i.e. a so called activation anneal. An activation anneal may repair damage caused by the implantation of high energy ions into the semiconductor lattice. Implant damage may include for example broken and or rearranged chemical bonds within the semiconductor lattice. The activation anneal may also assist implanted impurity ions in finding a suitable site in the crystal lattice at which the ions may appropriately act as acceptors and or donors.

Referring again to in some embodiments of the invention implantation of ions to form the implanted channel layer may be performed at relatively low implant energies and or doses and or at relatively high temperatures in order to provide an implanted channel layer having acceptable mobility. For example the implanted channel layer may be formed by implanting ions with an implant energy of 90 keV or less and or with a dose of 9 10atoms cmor less.

Furthermore the implants may be performed at an elevated temperature for example at a temperature greater than about 350 C. In particular embodiments the implants may be performed at a temperature of about 1100 C. By performing the implants at an elevated temperature lattice damage that may occur during the implantation process may be annealed out as it occurs. Accordingly the crystal quality of the implanted region may be maintained or even improved during the implantation process.

After implantation of dopants into the substrate to form the implanted channel layer the implanted p type region the source and drain regions and the well region an activation anneal may be performed at a temperature in a range of about 1400 C. to about 1700 C. for about 5 minutes to about 30 minutes. The p type implants and the n type implants may be annealed concurrently or separately. For example in some embodiments p type dopants may be implanted and annealed to form the p type region and the well region . After annealing the p type portions n type dopants may be implanted and annealed to form the implanted channel layer and the source and drain regions . Following the activation anneal or anneals the implanted channel layer may have excellent crystal quality. For example the implanted channel layer may have lattice damage that is below the threshold at which the lattice damage may affect the mobility of the layer.

An insulator layer such as an oxide may be further provided on the exposed surface of the device to provide mechanical protection and electrical isolation to the exposed surface of the device as well as to passivate unterminated chemical bonds on the surfaces of the semiconductor layers.

Although the present invention is described above with respect to particular MESFETs having particular layers regions and recesses it will be understood that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the above described MESFETs. A p type and n type conductivity regions beneath the source region of according to embodiments of the present invention may be incorporated in to other types of transistors. For example the p type conductivity region according to embodiments of the present invention may be incorporated into MESFETs described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 686 616 entitled Silicon Carbide Metal Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors to Allen et al. the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Although the present invention is described above with reference to SiC MESFETs the present invention is not limited to SiC MESFETs. For example MESFETs according to embodiments of the present invention may be for example gallium arsenide GaAs MESFETs or Gallium Nitride GaN MESFETs. In particular if the present invention were described with respect to GaAs MESFETs the p type conductivity regions might be p type conductivity GaAs regions the n type conductivity channel layers might be n type conductivity GaAs layers and the like. Furthermore MESFETs according to some embodiments of the present invention may be for example SiC MESFET MMICs GaN HEMTs GaN HEMT MMICs GaAs MESFETs GaAs MESFET MMICs GaAs HEMTs GaAs HEMT MMICs GaAs pHEMTs GaAs pHEMT MMICs and the like.

Transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention may be useful in for example high efficiency linear power amplifiers such as power amplifiers for base stations using complex modulation schemes such as code division multiple access CDMA and or Wideband CDMA WCDMA .

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

