---

title: Nanopore based ion-selective electrodes
abstract: Nanopore based ion-selective electrodes and methods of their manufacture as well as methods for their use are disclosed and described. The nanopore based ion-selective electrode can include a pore being present in a solid material and having a nanosize opening in the solid material, a metal conductor disposed inside the pore opposite the opening in the solid material, a reference electrode material contacting said metal conductor and disposed inside the pore, a conductive composition in contact with the reference electrode and disposed in the pore, and an ion-selective membrane. The ion-selective membrane can be configured to isolate the metal conductor, reference electrode material, and conductive composition together within the pore.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08123922&OS=08123922&RS=08123922
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 08123922
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070907
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 842 904 filed Sep. 7 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The research underlying the present invention was supported in part by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency Grant FA9550 06 C 0060 and the National Science Foundation Grant BES0529385. The U.S. government may have certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to the field of nanotechnology particularly to nanopore based ion selective electrodes and methods of making and using such nanopore based ion selective electrodes in chemical biochemical and gas sensing.

As advances in science increasingly demand the measurement of chemical species or reactions in microscale domains fundamental and applied studies on various types of ultramicroelectrodes UMEs have attracted considerable attention. Voltammetric UMEs disks rings or conical tip electrodes of micro or submicrometer dimension have been widely used to study the release of neurotransmitters from a single cell rapid homogeneous or heterogeneous electron transfer kinetics and electrochemical reactions in poorly conducting media and applied as tips in high resolution scanning electrochemical microscopy SECM . Potentiometric UMEs comprising simple metal wires metal wires coated with insoluble salt e.g. Ag AgCl or conventional ion selective electrodes ISEs fabricated in micropipets have also been developed to investigate the in vivo ionic activity of single cells and more recently as a probe of SECM. However the application of potentiometric UMEs for SECM studies is rather limited in practice in part due to the complexity of constructing such system.

Several types of potentiometric UMEs are found in the literature. Ag AgCl microelectrode disks 10 and 50 m diameter were used to probe the diffusion of Ag on a planar Ag electrode and to measure ion flux of Cl over polyaniline films electrodeposited on Pt. Antimony based pH microdisk electrodes tip size 3 m diameter were also fabricated and used to image the local pH changes in several model chemical systems e.g. reduction of water on Pt electrode the corrosion of AgI in aqueous potassium cyanide enzyme reactions of immobilized urease and metabolic activity of yeast cells. Neutral carrier based micropipet ISEs typical tip diameter 1 20 m were used as probes in SECM to image local concentration profiles of NH K and Zn ions.

Previous studies suggest that the fabrication of potentiometric UMEs requires a substantial effort in preparing submicrometer sized electrode tips or in the construction of micropipet based ion selective electrodes. Ion selective metal oxide layers e.g. iridium oxide silver silver chloride etc. may be deposited at the exposed end of the submicrometer sized electrode tip or the tip coated with ionophore doped solvent polymeric membranes to result in a desired ion selectivity. However the affixed layer on a small electrode area may not be stable even for a short period of time. Therefore despite some advances there still remains the need for improved electrode designs.

Glass nanopore electrodes are a three dimensional structure for preparing mechanically robust ISEs down to nanoscale dimensions. The fabrication and electrochemical behavior of conical shaped glass nanopore electrodes can be described as a platform for investigating molecular transport through orifices of nanoscale dimensions and upon surface chemical modification as sensors. Cone shaped glass nanopore structures are ideal for containing additional functional layers such as ion selective membranes. The fabrication and application of glass nanopore based all solid state ion selective electrodes would represent a major advance in the field of ion selective electrochemistry. The depositions of Ag AgCl for chloride selective electrodes IrO for pH electrodes and polymer membranes doped with neutral carriers for K selective electrodes inside the glass nanopore are made possible by this approach.

The present invention provides nanopore based ion selective electrodes methods of their manufacture as well as methods for their use. The nanopore based ion selective electrode can include a pore being present in a solid material and having a nanosize opening in the solid material. A metal conductor can be disposed inside the pore opposite the opening in the solid material. A reference electrode material can be oriented contacting the metal conductor and disposed inside the pore. A conductive composition can be oriented in contact with the reference electrode and disposed in the pore. An ion selective membrane can be configured to isolate the metal conductor reference electrode material and conductive composition together within the pore.

In another embodiment an ion selective electrochemical sensor is provided which includes at least one nanopore based ion selective electrode as described above and a processing unit for processing information from the ion selective electrode.

In a further embodiment a process for producing a glass nanopore based all solid state ion selective electrode ISE is provided. The process includes sealing a conductive metal wire in glass or quartz. A disk of the conductive metal wire can be exposed by gentle grinding and etching to form a pore orifice of submicrometer dimension and as small as a few nanometers. The exposed disk of the conductive metal can be electroplated in the pore with Ag to form a layer of silver on the exposed disk. Further at least a portion of the Ag layer can be chloridated in order to obtain a AgCl Ag layer within the pore.

A greater understanding of the present invention may be had from reference to the following detailed description and the appended claims.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In describing and claiming the present invention the following terminology will be used in accordance with the definitions set forth below.

As used herein the singular forms of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a reference electrode material includes one or more of such materials reference to a sensor includes reference to one or more of such devices.

As used herein the term solid material refers to a generally non porous and non conductive or isolative material into which a pore can be formed. Further any non uniformities or porosity in the solid material are insufficient to disrupt functioning of the electrode.

As used herein the term nanosize when used to describe pore openings refers to openings having a diameter of from about 5 nm to about 1000 nm. However in some embodiments nanosized pore openings more generally refer to openings of less than about 100 nm.

As used herein the term pore refers to a void volume. Although pores are typically conical or cylindrical in shape other three dimensional shapes can be useful such as spherical box shape etc. as long as the nanosized opening is present.

As used herein the term opposite when referring to placement of features refers to an orientation which is not adjacent. For example the conductor being opposite the pore opening does not necessarily indicate symmetric placement within the pore. Thus when opposite the conductor could be oriented within the pore in any position which allows for a potential across the reference electrode.

As used herein microdisk refers to an exposed region of an electrical conductor e.g. a metal semiconductor oxide carbon or polymer that can be found within a pore. The electrical conductor can be a wire that is embedded in the solid material. When the pore is formed in the solid material and exposes a region of the metal conducting wire the exposed region can be referred to as a microdisk. The exposed region of the metal or electrical conductor may have a geometry different from that of a microdisk.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Concentrations amounts and other numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 1 wt to about 5 wt should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 1 wt to about 5 wt but also include individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 2 3.5 and 4 and sub ranges such as from 1 3 from 2 4 and from 3 5 etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value. Furthermore such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristics being described.

As mentioned above the present invention provides nanopore based ion selective electrodes and associated methods of manufacture and use. In one embodiment a nanopore based ion selective electrode is provided. The nanopore based ion selective electrode can include a pore being present in a solid material and having a nanosize opening in the solid material. A metal conductor can be disposed inside the pore opposite the opening in the solid material. In addition a reference electrode material can be oriented contacting the metal conductor and disposed inside the pore. A conductive composition can be in contact with the reference electrode and disposed in the pore. Further an ion selective membrane can be oriented and configured to isolate the metal conductor reference electrode material and conductive composition together within the pore. The device may be employed as a sensor for detection of chemical and biological species including ions molecules and dissolved gases by measuring the potential between the internal reference electrode and a suitable external reference electrode. illustrates a prototypical conical shaped ion selective electrode depicting a nanopore reference electrode and other components e.g. hydrogel ion selective membrane electrical conductor and solid support matrix typically found in an ion selective electrode in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

The devices of the present invention can be suitably used singly or in combinations of a plurality of sensors e.g. as an array. For example an ion selective electrochemical sensor can be provided which includes at least one nanopore based ion selective electrode as described above and an operatively connected processing unit for processing information from the ion selective electrode. In order to identify and or measure concentrations of distinct ions the ion selective electrochemical sensor can be configured to include an array of two or more nanopore electrodes. For example a plurality of nanopore sensors can be produced each having a different semi permeable membrane and other materials which are optimized for a specific ion.

The nanopore based ion selective electrodes of the present invention can be formed using a variety of suitable processes and various materials. Exemplary processes for producing a nanopore based all solid state ion selective electrode ISE are described in more detail below.

The nanopore ISEs of the present invention are generally formed having a solid material as a support matrix or encapsulating structure for the functional layers within. The solid material in which the nanopore based ion selective electrodes are formed can be made of any non porous non conductive or insulating material which acts to support and protect the various functional layers of the device. Examples of such materials include but are not limited to glass polymer quartz oxides other known insulator compositions or combinations thereof. In one aspect of the present invention the solid material can comprise or consist essentially of an inorganic material such as glass quartz or metal oxide. Alternatively polymer materials can be inexpensive. The solid material can be formed by a suitable deposition process or provided as an existing layer. For example a glass or quartz support matrix can be formed by a simple bench top method. An electrochemically sharpened Au or Pt micro wire is first sealed into a glass or quartz capillary followed by polishing the glass or quartz until a nanometer sized metal disk is exposed. The glass nanopore electrode is then fabricated by etching the metal nanodisk electrode to create a pore in glass with the remaining metal disk comprising the pore base.

A suitable nanopore can be formed in the solid material. Such nanopores can be formed by forming the solid material as a support matrix around a mold which is then partially removed i.e. an additive process or forming the nanopore into an existing solid material i.e. a subtractive process . For example the pores can be etched or ground into the solid material in order to form a pore. Non limiting examples of suitable processes for forming the nanopore can include chemical etching laser ablation nanolithography focused ion electron beam drilling and the like. Alternatively the solid material can be sealed around a mold having the desired pore volume dimensions. For example the solid material can be deposited around a conically shaped mold e.g. a nanosharpened metal wire. A quartz or glass or other similar solid material may also be molten or heated e.g. using a COlaser and the sharpened wire inserted therein and allowed to cool around the wire. Any excess material can be gently removed sufficient to expose a portion of the mold. The exposed portion of the mold can generally correspond to a desired pore opening dimension. The exposed portion of the mold can then be removed by chemical etching or other suitable treatments to leave an open pore volume. If the mold is formed of a conductive material the etching or removal can be ceased at a point corresponding to the desired electrode depth. The remaining portion of the mold can then serve as an electrical interconnect for the nanopore ISE device.

In order to be effective for use with the nanopore based ion selective electrodes of the present invention the pores formed in the solid material should have nanosize openings or orifices having diameters of from about 5 nm to about 5000 nm. In one embodiment the nanosize openings can have a diameter of from 5 nm to about 500 nm. In another embodiment the pore s nanosize opening can have a diameter of from about 5 nm to about 200 nm. shows a schematic of an etched solid material having a nanosize pore opening and a platinum metal conductor located inside the conically shaped pore in accordance with an additive process for forming the nanopore.

A conical nanopore structure provides a mechanically robust volume for containing the components of an ion selective electrode. Specifically the reference electrode internal filling solutions such as gels hydrogels and polymers and ion selective membrane are protected from external environment such as an external solution to be tested providing for an exceptionally stable and miniaturized ion selective electrode. shows these elements and the manner that they are isolated from the external solution or environment. At the same time because of the radial convergent flux of ions in the conical geometry the pore shape provides a low resistance pathway between internal and external reference electrodes for operation of the device. The pored based ISE is not limited to conical shaped pores. Any geometry that provides low ion transport resistance mechanical robustness and a low pore opening to volume ratio can be useful. The small size and robustness of the device lends itself to solid state ion selective electrodes ISEs and have been demonstrated as useful chemical sensors in model bench top experiments. In one embodiment the diameter of the nanosize opening to pore volume ratio can be from about 1 10 nm l to about 1 100 000 nm l and preferably from about 1 100 nm l to about 1 10 000. This ratio can be optimized depending on the thickness and chemical and physical properties of the internal electrode components and is not limited to the examples presented below. Similarly as a general rule the depth of the nanopore to the electrical conductor can range from about 100 nm to about 100 m although other dimensions may be suitable.

The electrical conductor of the nanopore based ion selective electrodes can generally comprise any conductive material or composite material. Non limiting examples of such materials include platinum copper silver gold tin lead and alloys thereof. Alternatively the conductive material can be a conductive polymer. In one aspect of the present invention the conductors can be incorporated in the solid material of the nanopore ion selective electrodes in the form of embedded wires. When the pores are created in solid materials containing embedded metal conductor wires the exposed portion of the wire within the pore volume can be referred to as a microdisk. In one embodiment the metal conductor can be made of platinum such as a platinum wire. The metal conductor can be present in the pore as a platinum Pt microdisk but is not limited to a disk geometry. For instance the exposed portion of the conductor could also be conical shape irregular or have a rectangular geometry.

The electrical conductor material can be formed as discussed above i.e. used as a mold which is then partially etched away to leave the pore volume. However the electrical conductor material can also be formed in a number of other alternative approaches. For example the entire device may be formed by a layered additive deposition process such as nanolithography sequential deposition etch cycles or the like. As such the conductive material can be sequentially deposited along with the surrounding support matrix or deposited within the pore after formation thereof.

The exposed surface of the electrical conductor material in the pore can be layered with a suitable reference electrode material. The reference electrode used in the nanopore based ion selective electrodes can be made of any material known in the art for such purposes. Non limiting examples of suitable reference electrode materials can include Ag AgCl IrO saturated calomel Cu Cu ion metal oxides conducting polymers or the like. However in one embodiment the reference electrode can be selected from Ag AgCl or IrO. Suitable reference electrode materials can be any which are a reversible redox system having a well defined potential i.e. stable over time and which can be deposited within the dimensions of the present invention. Although dimensions may vary the reference electrode layer of the present invention can range from about 5 nm to about 10 m in thickness and often from about 50 nm to about 1 m.

As shown in the reference electrode can be electrolytically deposited onto or placed in contact with the metal conductor . shows an ion selective electrode having a reference electrode that comprises a silver layer and a silver chloride layer . The silver chloride layer can be formed by chlorinating the silver layer using any chlorination method known in the art such as but not limited to electrochemical oxidation of the Ag in presence of Cl exposure to a ferric chloride solution or the like. shows an ion selective electrode having a reference electrode comprising IrO. In one embodiment x can equal 2 although x can also be 1 1.5 or 3 as long as the redox chemistry is maintained. The reference electrode can be optionally formed using electrodeposition atomic layer deposition chemical vapor deposition sputtering or the like.

An ionically conductive composition layer can be placed adjacent the reference electrode layer. This layer can be formed of any material which provides ionic conduction between the internal reference electrode and external solution. This layer also generally contains ions or additives that stabilize the internal reference electrode. Non limiting examples of suitable materials for use in the conductive composition layer can comprise electrolytic solutions e.g. KCl solutions conductive hydrogel layers or another ionically conductive component. In one specific embodiment the conduction composition layer can comprise a hydrogel such as but not limited to polyvinylalcohol dissolved in 0.01 KCl. shows a nanopore based ion selective electrode that includes a hydrogel layer as the conductive composition.

Particularly attention must be given to the pH and ionic composition of the conductive composition in order to produce a stable internal reference electrode. As such in one aspect of the process of producing the nanopore the process can include a step of adjusting an ion concentration particularly the Cl concentration in the conductive composition sufficient to minimize the solubility of the AgCl layer. When using other internal reference electrodes e.g. IrOx the solution may or may not be buffered to control the pH in order to maintain a constant internal reference electrode potential.

The chemical dissolution of the AgCl layer must be considered when constructing a stable nano reference Ag AgCl electrode inside the nanopore. While AgCl is very insoluble Cl will form numerous soluble complexes with AgCl including AgCl and AgClat Cl concentrations greater than 3 mM NaCl. In agreement with the reported solubility of these complexes we found that 100 fg quantities of AgCl deposited on the bottom of the glass nanopore electrode quickly dissolved in 1M KCl solutions. In one embodiment to alleviate this problem the solution to which the electrode was exposed is presaturated with AgCl and a lower concentration of KCl was employed. In a 3 mM NaCl solution saturated with AgCl the nano reference electrode potential was stable is much more stable than in a 1 M KCl.

As shown in the conductive composition is placed in contact with the reference electrode on one side and an ion selective membrane opposite the reference electrode. The conductive composition layer can be formed using any suitable technique. For example a hydrogel conductive layer can be formed by conventional solution polymerization. The hydrogel can be introduced into the nanopore by capillary action or by microsyringe methods. Difficulties are encountered in removing trapped air in the nanopore which is nonconductive and prevents proper operation of the device. The entire electrode can be placed in a solution under reduced pressure e.g. less than atmospheric to draw the air out of the nanopore. The conductive composition layer can vary in thickness though as a general rule thickness can range from about 100 nm to about 20 m although other dimensions may be suitable.

An ion selective membrane can be deposited between the conductive composition layer and an external fluid to be tested. Any ion selective membrane known in the art can be used in the ion selective electrodes of the present invention. Examples of ion selective membranes include by are not limited to ion selective polymers membrane oxide film monolayer or other ion selective suitable coatings. One skilled in the art could readily determine which membrane to use based on the desired ion selectivity. However non limiting examples of suitable ion selective membranes can include polymer or ceramics and more specifically PVA based membranes having a suitable ion channel or carrier such as valinomycin. For instance a very useful ion selective membrane for Ca nanopore ion selective electrode is 5 N N N N tetra cyclohexyl diglycolic acid diamide 10 carboxylated PVC and 85 Bis 2 ethylhexyl adipate.

In one aspect the ion selective membranes can be positioned or deposited at or across the pore nanosize opening of the ion selective electrodes. In another aspect of the invention the ion selective membrane can be positioned in contact with the conductive composition so as to form a barrier between the conductive composition and materials external to the pore. The ion selective material can be ionically conductive and be capable of selective transporting or adsorbing the intended analyte ion or polyion in the external solution. The membrane can be deposited by capillary active from a solution containing the membrane components or introduced by microsyringe techniques. Other types of self assembling membranes can be deposited such as by painting a lipid solution across the orifice and allowing for the spontaneous formation of a thin lipid bilayer. As a general guideline the membrane can have a thickness ranging from about 80 nm to about 25 m and in some cases from about 200 nm to about 2 m.

The fabrication of glass nanopore electrodes begins when a Pt wire with a sharpened tip was sealed in a soda lime glass capillary and the glass was polished to expose a Pt nanodisk electrode. The exposed Pt surface was then electrochemically etched in a 1.2 M CaClsolution to create a conical pore within the glass with a Pt microdisk embedded at the bottom of the pore. The radius of the orifice of the nanopore electrodes prepared as described here was normally less than 1.0 pm. The final structure of the electrode is schematically depicted in

Electrodeposition of iridium oxide film on a nanopore electrode was performed by cycling the applied potentials from 1.2 V to 0.85 V vs. Ag AgCl one to three times at a scan rate of 100 mV s in a fresh deposition solution. The deposition solution was prepared as follows. A 75 mg of IrClwas dissolved in 50 mL of water and magnetically stirred for 30 min. A 0.5 mL aliquot of 30 hydrogen peroxide solution was added and stirred for 10 min. A 250 mg of oxalic acid dehydrate was added and the solution was stirred again for 10 more min. The pH of the solution was adjusted slowly to 10.5 by adding small portions of anhydrous potassium carbonate. The resulting yellow solution was covered and left at room temperature for 2 days for stabilization. About 2 mL of fresh deposition solution was used for the preparation of each electrode. Once the deposition is complete the nanopore electrode tip was washed with distilled water and air dried. The final structure of the electrode is schematically depicted in

The electrodeposition of Ag at the Pt electrode in the nanopore was performed by cycling the applied potential from 0.0 V to 0.15 V vs. Ag AgCl once at the scan rate of 1.0 mV s in a fresh deposition solution. The deposition solution was prepared to contain 0.1 M AgNO 0.2 M EDTA 0.5 M NHOH and 0.1 M NHNO. Once the deposition is complete the nanopore electrode is washed with distilled water and air dried. The AgCl layer was formed by chloridating the electrodeposited Ag surface with a 3 M FeClsolution for 30 min. The final structure of the electrode is schematically depicted in

Cocktails of polymer membranes were prepared by dissolving varying proportions of c PVC plasticizer DOA lipophilic additives KTFPB and ETH500 neutral carrier valinomycin in THF the detailed compositions are listed in Tables 1 and 2. The hydrogel solution was prepared by dissolving 4 wt of PVA in 10M KCl solution. The membrane cocktails and hydrogel were dispensed onto the Ag AgCl deposited Pt nanopore electrode using a syringe pump Harvard Apparatus model PHD 22 2000 Holliston Mass. . The volume per drop was in 0.1 1 L range. The overfilled membrane cocktails covered the periphery of nanopore and the final structure of the electrode is schematically depicted in .

A schematic diagram of the SECM instrumentation used to demonstrate the utility of conical shaped ion selective electrodes is shown in . Briefly a Si membrane thickness 

Pt nanodisk electrodes were prepared as described in Example 1 and their electrochemical radii were volumetrically determined. Steady state diffusion limited currents were measured from the oxidation of 0.005 M Fc in a 0.1 M TBAPFsupporting electrolyte. Using the equation for the limiting current of UME i 4nFDC a it was estimated that the radii of Pt nanodisks was in the 1 500 nm range.

Glass nanopore electrodes were obtained by electrochemically etching the exposed Pt nanodisk in 1.2 M CaClsolution pH 5.5 at 4.5 VAC see Experimental . shows the voltammetric responses of nanodisk and nanopore electrodes in a CHCN solution containing 5.0 mM Fc and 0.1 M TBAPF6 tetrabutylammonium hexafluorophosphate . The voltammogram for the nanodisk is sigmoidal shaped and displays very little hysteresis on the reverse scan. From the voltammetric diffusion limited current ilim 0.61 nA the radius of the disk is calculated to be 132 nm. The Pt electrode was then electrochemically etched for 10 s once or twice in a 1.2 M v v CaClsolution at 4.5 VAC to create a nanopore electrode. After the etching voltammograms were taken under the same experimental condition to ensure the formation of nanopore electrodes. The depths of the pores were estimated to be deeper than 30 m. The nanopore electrodes were then used to construct all solid state ISEs by modifying the exposed Pt electrode with ion selective electrode materials.

It is known that IrOfilms deposited onto metal electrodes behave as an excellent pH sensors. However IrOfilm formation on small Pt electrodes is irreproducible because of the poor adhesion of the film to the Pt surface. The nanopore structure provides an ideal geometry that can contain the deposited IrOfilm providing mechanical robustness to the device. Since the adhesion of IrOfilm to Pt surface is greatly affected by its cleanliness the film deposition process was carried out immediately after the nanopore Pt electrode was created to minimize the possibility of ambient chemical contamination. The solution used for electrodeposition is an alkaline iridium IV solution containing oxalate which complexes iridium ions to prevent precipitation at high pH. It is suggested that the IrOfilm is formed by the following reaction at the anode Ir COO OH IrO 2CO 2HO 2. A good quality film at constant current conditions was difficult as the deposited IrOquickly form a column like thread outside the pore. On the other hand the electrodeposition of IrOby cycling the voltage ten times at a constant scan rate confined the film to within the pore. From the total integrated current per cycle 3.8 10C and the density of IrO 11.7 g cm the thickness of the deposited film can be estimated and is in the order of a few nanometers e.g. 1 5 nm . The potentiometric response of the IrO deposited nanopore electrode to pH between 2 and 10 was measured by adding aliquots of NaOH to universal buffer solutions 11.4 mM boric acid 6.7 mM citric acid 10.0 mM NaH2PO4 at room temperature. For comparison the response of a commercial glass pH electrode was measured in the same experimental conditions. The significant difference was found in the response slopes of the two electrodes as shown in 79.7 2.3 mV pH for the IrOnanopore electrode and 58.5 1.0 mV pH for the glass electrode. The super Nernstian slopes of IrO based pH sensors have been explained based on the stoichiometric ratio of protons and electrons that balance the iridium oxyhydroxide compositions in the iridium oxide film. The IrO deposited nanopore electrodes exhibited highly linear and reproducible responses R 0.9993 as shown in and could be used for more than 3 weeks with no degradation of the performance without any protective coating e.g. Nafion on the IrOfilm.

The formation of the Ag AgCl layer on the nanopore Pt electrode involved a two step process electrodeposition of a Ag layer on the Pt base electrode and chloridation of the Ag layer. Direct deposition of the Ag layer in 0.10 M AgNO 0.50 M NHOH and 0.10 M NHNOsolution does not result in the film formation because the Ag tends to grow like a column and extends out of the pore forming a lump at the tip. This problem can be avoided by complexing the Ag with EDTA or other suitable silver complexing agent yielding more controllable deposition conditions. The Ag was deposited in the presence of 0.2 M EDTA at scan rate below 5 mV s. One cycle 1.1 10C was sufficient to form a Ag layer within the pore. If the electrodeposition is conducted at a higher scan rate and or with multiple cycles lumps of Ag tend to grow out of the pore failing to form a film within the pore. The thickness of the Ag layer was estimated to be thicker than 25 m. After the Ag layer is deposited the nanopore electrode is carefully dipped into a stirred 3 M ferric chloride solution for 30 min. We first examined the potentiometric chloride response of the Ag AgCl electrode formed in the nanopore orifice diameter 

To demonstrate the utility of nanopore based Ag AgCl electrode we imaged the Cl ion flux through a micrometer size hole 5 m in a Si wafer. The cell and SECM instrumentation are schematically depicted in and the details are described above. The solutions beneath and above the membrane were 0.1 M KCl and 0.05 M tris HSO pH 7.4 respectively. shows the SEM image of the pore micromachined in Si substrate and the corresponding SECM image of the Cl distribution around the pore the image of the pore and its surroundings are clearly distinguished. The diameter of the ISE image was about 15 m which is 3 times larger than the real pore due to the diffusion of Cl as it exits the pore. This result demonstrates that the nanopore based ISEs can be used as a SECM probe.

Polymer membrane filled nanopore electrodes were constructed by filling the Ag AgCl modified nanopore electrode orifice diameter 100 500 nm which was prepared as described in Example 4. Carboxylated PVC c PVC was used because it exhibits improved adhesion to a solid surface. The polymer to plasticizer ratios are commonly kept at 1 2. The membrane and the base Ag AgCl electrode in nanopore make a direct contact without the need of internal reference solution used in conventional or micropipette based ISE the nanopore based potentiometric electrode of this kind may constitute the smallest all solid state ISE known to date.

The K selective membrane formulated with valinomycin c PVC and DOA membrane A in Table 1 exhibited a transient peak response to the increase of K as shown in the dynamic response curve A of . This type of behavior is typically observed in the membranes with high resistance. To lower the membrane resistance while catalyzing the ion exchange at the membrane surface a lipophilic additive KTFPB potassium tetrakis 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenyl borate was added to the membrane composition B but with no improvement in the performance curve B in . It was thought that the poor point contact between the membrane and the submicrometer scale Ag AgCl layer in the nanopore results in a very high impedance. To improve the contact a small drop of hydrogel layer 4 wt PVA in 0.01 M KCl solution between the Ag AgCl and the polymer membrane composition C was introduced. The layer absorbs water upon soaking and acts as an internal filling solution. As anticipated the transient peak responses disappeared with the hydrogel mediated contact curve C in . However the slope of the electrode based on C membrane was still too low 22.4 mV decade. Generally 30 mV decade or greater can be desirable although lower values may be sufficiently functional for some embodiments.

The nanopore based electrodes with membrane formulations from D to G were also examined. A highly lipophilic salt ETH5OO tetradodecylammonium tetrakis 4 chlorophenyl borate was added to the membranes with or without KTFPB to reduce the membrane resistance. The best performance was obtained with the electrode E slope 44.6 mV decade curve E in . These results indicate that the improved contact between the membrane and the base electrode surface and the reduced membrane resistance can be important for fabricating high performance nanopore ISE.

In the fabrication of micropipette based ISE the membranes are often formulated only with a plasticizer i.e. with no polymer thread to reduce the resistance of the membrane. The membranes that fill the nanopore should keep their shape while firmly adhered on the electrode surface. Hence the membranes were formulated with varying c PVC plasticizer ratios compositions H I J and K as listed in Table 2. The results are summarized in Table 2 and the membranes with less than 16.5 wt of c PVC H I and J exhibited near Nernstian slopes 50 mV decade . Another noticeable effect of increased plasticizer ratio was the increase in response times. The increased plasticizer content increases the hydrophobicity of the membrane and may hinder the ion exchange at the membrane aqueous solution phase boundary resulting in a slowed response times. Nanopore ISEs provide a slightly worse potentiometric performance compared to conventional ISEs. However the sensitivity of the polymer membrane filled nanopore ISE are sufficient for analytical work including SECM probing.

While the present invention has been described above with particularity and detail in connection with what is presently deemed to be the most practical and preferred embodiments of the invention it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications including but not limited to variations in materials temperature function order and manner of operation may be made without departing from the principles and concepts set forth herein.

