---

title: Lateral restraint for a movable partition, movable partitions incorporating same and related methods
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are disclosed for laterally restraining a movable partition. In one embodiment, a movable partition includes two laterally spaced structures wherein each structure includes a plurality of hingedly coupled panels. A lateral restraint mechanism is located and configured to prevent lateral displacement of one or both of the two laterally spaced structures. In one embodiment, a cable is disposed between and extends from along the lower edge of the two laterally spaced structures. The cable is maintained in tension, at least while the partition is in a deployed condition, to prevent or minimize the lateral displacement of one or both of the structures such as when a draft or other external force acts on the structures. In one embodiment, the cable may be operatively associated with one or more drive components used to displace the movable partition. In another embodiment, the cable may be coupled to a take-up mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07926538&OS=07926538&RS=07926538
owner: Won-Door Corporation
number: 07926538
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070111
---
The subject matter of this application is related to the subject matter of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 951 901 filed Dec. 6 2007 titled MOVABLE PARTITIONS WITH LATERAL RESTRAINT DEVICES AND RELATED METHODS. The subject matter of this application is also related to the subject matter of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 756 066 filed Apr. 7 2010 titled METHOD APPARATUS AND SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING A MOVABLE PARTITION which is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 796 325 filed Apr. 27 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 740 046 issued Jun. 22 2010 titled METHOD APPARATUS AND SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING A MOVABLE PARTITION. The subject matter of this application is also related to the subject matter of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 934 566 filed Nov. 2 2007 titled MOVABLE PARTITIONS WITH LATERAL RESTRAINT DEVICES AND RELATED METHODS. 

The present invention relates to movable partitions and more particularly to systems apparatuses and methods for preventing lateral displacement of one or more portions of such partitions.

Movable partitions are utilized in numerous situations and environments for a variety of purposes. Such partitions may include for example foldable or collapsible doors configured to close off an opening in order to enclose a room or to subdivide a single large room into one or more smaller rooms. The subdivision of a larger area may be desired for example to accommodate the simultaneous meeting of multiple groups. In such applications movable partitions are useful for providing privacy and noise reduction.

Movable partitions may also be used to act as a security barrier a fire barrier or as both. In such a case the movable partition may be configured to automatically close upon the occurrence of a predetermined event such as the actuation of an associated alarm. For example one or more movable partitions may be configured as a fire door or barrier wherein each door is formed with a plurality of panels connected to each other by way of hinge mechanisms. The hinged connection of the panels allows the door to fold up in a compact unit on one side of the opening or it may be stored in a pocket formed within a wall that is designed to conceal the door and preserve the aesthetics of the room where the door is installed. When deployment of the door is necessary the door is driven by a motor along a track which track may be incorporated into the header above the door until the leading edge of the door often defined by a component called a lead post complementarily engages a mating receptacle. Such a mating receptacle may be referred to as a jamb or a door post when formed in a fixed structure such as a wall or as mating lead post when formed in another door or movable partition. In order for the door to securely close and form an adequate seal the door s lead post and the doorjamb or the mating lead post must substantially align to enable mating engagement of such components and allow corresponding latch mechanisms to engage if desired.

However even when a movable partition is properly closed the door seal may be broken for example if the lower edge of the door is laterally displaced relative to the top edge of the door. Such lateral displacement of the lower edge of the door can be caused for example by a draft created by a fire an improperly balanced HVAC system or simply a person pushing on the door. When the seal is broken smoke and flames may intrude around the door if the door is being used as a fire barrier. If the door is being used in a security installation a person may sufficiently displace the door thereby allowing that person or another to slide or crawl underneath the door. At a minimum displacement of the base of the door is unsightly and significantly reduces the door s effectiveness as a privacy screen and noise barrier.

One approach to preventing or controlling the lateral displacement of a door including the door s lower edge is to engage the lower edge of the door in a guide track that is either embedded in or otherwise attached to the floor. However the use of a track can present various issues. For example a track disposed in the floor can pose a safety issue regardless of whether it protrudes above the floor or is recessed within the floor potentially resulting in a person twisting an ankle or tripping and falling. Likewise such a track may act as a significant obstacle for wheeled conveyances. Additionally such a guide track being exposed when an associated door is in a retracted state is prone to damage and may act as a collection point for dirt and debris.

In view of the current state of the art it would be advantageous to provide a method apparatus and system to substantially secure a movable partition from lateral displacement. It would be additionally advantageous to provide a method apparatus and system that substantially maintain the lateral position of a lower edge of a movable partition in order to maintain a seal effected by the partition without the use of a track.

In accordance with various aspects of the present invention movable partitions lateral restraints for movable partitions and related methods are provided. For example in one embodiment of the present invention a movable partition is provided. The movable partition includes a first structure comprising a first plurality of panels hingedly coupled to one another. A lead post is coupled to a first end of the first structure. A cable has at least a portion thereof extending adjacent a length of a lower edge of the first structure. The movable partition may include a second structure comprising a second plurality of panels hingedly coupled to one another wherein the first structure is laterally spaced from the second structure and wherein the cable is disposed between the first structure and the second structure. The movable partition may further include a track configured to guide displacement of the lead post along a defined path and an actuating mechanism located and configured to displace the lead post relative to the track. The movable partition may include further features or alternative components as set forth in further detail hereinbelow.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention another movable partition is provided. The movable partition includes a first structure comprising a first plurality of panels hingedly coupled to one another. The movable partition further includes a lateral restraint mechanism configured to limit lateral displacement of a lower edge of the first structure. The movable partition may include a second structure comprising a second plurality of panels hingedly coupled to one another the first structure being laterally spaced from the first structure wherein the lateral restraint mechanism is disposed between the first structure and the second structure.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method of operating a movable partition is provided. The method includes placing the movable partition in a deployed state and positioning a cable adjacent a length of a lower edge of the movable partition. The cable is maintained in tension while the movable partition is in the deployed state. Other and different acts may be included in association with the method of operating the door as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the detailed disclosure and the appended claims.

Referring to an elevation view a plan view and a perspective view are shown respectively of a movable partition . It is noted that in various portions of certain structures or components are partially sectioned for sake of clarity and simplicity in showing various aspects of the described embodiment. In the example shown in the partition may be in the form of a folding door. In certain embodiments the partition may be used for example as a security door a fire door or as both. In other embodiments the partition need not be utilized as a fire or security door but may be used simply for the subdividing of a larger space into smaller rooms or areas.

The partition may be formed with a plurality of panels that are connected to one another with hinges or other hinge like structures in an alternating pattern of panel hinge structure . The hinged connection of the individual panels enables the panels to fold relative to each other in an accordion or a plicated manner such that the partition may be compactly stored such as in a pocket formed in a wall A of a building when the partition is in a retracted or folded state.

When in a deployed state the partition may extend from one wall A to a second wall B to act as a barrier e.g. a fire or security barrier or to divide one area or room into multiple rooms A and B. When it is desired to deploy the partition from a stowed condition to an extended position for example to secure an area during a fire the partition may be motivated along an overhead track see across the space to provide an appropriate barrier. When in a deployed or an extended state a leading edge of the partition shown as a male lead post may complementarily or matingly engage with a jamb or door post that may be formed in a wall B of a building.

As best seen in the partition may include a first barrier or structure A and a second barrier or structure B each including a plurality of panels coupled with one another by way of hinges or hinge like structures . The second structure B is laterally spaced from the first structure A. Such a configuration may be utilized as a fire door wherein one structure e.g. structure A acts as a primary fire and smoke barrier the space between the two structures A and B acts as an insulator or a buffer zone and the another structure e.g. structure B acts as a secondary fire and smoke barrier. Such a configuration may also be useful in providing an acoustical barrier when the partition is used to subdivide a larger space into multiple smaller rooms.

Various means may be used to displace the partition from a stowed condition to a deployed condition and vice versa. For example depending on the intended use of the partition it may be displaced manually i.e. by an individual pushing or pulling it along the track . In another embodiment an appropriate actuator may be used to displace the partition . For example a drive may include a motor coupled to a pulley or gear configured to drive a transmission member such as a belt or chain . In one embodiment of the present invention a cable may be coupled to the drive belt or chain as a component of a lateral restraint mechanism as will be discussed in further detail below.

A portion of the belt or chain may be coupled to a trolley that is configured to ride along the track . The trolley may be coupled to a component of the partition such as for example the lead post . Thus actuation of the motor and belt or chain in a first direction results in displacement of the trolley and lead post so that the partition may be deployed. Actuation of the motor and belt or chain in a second direction results in displacement of the trolley and lead post so that the partition may be retracted.

Additionally while not specifically shown various sensors and switches may be employed in association with such a drive to assist in the control of the partition . For example as shown in when used as a fire door the partition may include a switch or actuator commonly referred to as panic hardware. Actuation of the panic hardware allows a person located on one side of the partition e.g. in room A to cause the partition to open if it is closed or to stop while it is closing so as to provide access through the barrier formed by the partition for a predetermined amount of time.

It is noted that while the above description has been more directed to an embodiment including a single partition extending from one wall A to another wall B other movable partitions may be utilized. For example a two door or bi part partition configuration may be utilized wherein two similarly configured partitions extend across a space and join together to form an appropriate barrier as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Still referring to a lateral restraint mechanism is operatively associated with the partition to minimize or prevent lateral displacement of a lower edge of the first structure A the second structure B or both. In one embodiment the lateral restraint mechanism may include a cable as previously mentioned having one end thereof coupled to the lead post and another end thereof coupled to a portion of the drive belt or drive chain . While generally referred to herein as a cable it is noted that the term cable is intended to include other components such as for example a wire rope chain or other elongated elastically deformable structural member may be utilized.

The cable extends between the lead post and a first redirect structure or mechanism such as for example a pulley or a static guide located at a longitudinal end of the partition opposite that of the lead post e.g. in or adjacent the door pocket if a door pocket is being used . In one embodiment the portion of the cable extending between the door post and the redirect mechanism may also be disposed between and extend substantially parallel to the first and second structures A and B such that it is substantially concealed from a user after installation and during conventional operation of the partition .

Another portion of the cable extends from the first redirect mechanism to a second redirect mechanism which may be located near the overhead track such as for example near the motor . Again the redirect mechanism may include a dynamic mechanism such as a pulley or a static mechanism such as an eyelet a bent channel or some other similar structure. Yet another portion of the cable extends from the second redirect mechanism in a direction substantially parallel with the drive belt or drive chain and has a portion thereof such as at or near its end coupled to a portion of the drive belt or drive chain .

Referring briefly to the schematics shown in in conjunction with the drive belt or drive chain may be configured as a circuitous structure. Thus for example when actuated by the drive motor to deploy or extend the partition a first portion A of the drive belt or drive chain travels in a first direction as indicated by directional arrow . As previously noted the partition is coupled to the drive belt or drive chain such that the lead post travels in the same direction as the first portion A of the drive belt or drive chain and accordingly motivates the various structures A and B with their associate panels and hinge structures in the same direction as indicated by directional arrow . The portion A of cable extending between the lead post and the first redirect mechanism it being coupled to the lead post is likewise displaced in the same direction as that of the lead post and as indicated by directional arrow .

A second portion B of the drive belt or drive chain due to the circuitous configuration thereof travels in a second direction that is opposite to that of the first direction as indicated by directional arrow and which is therefore opposite the direction that the lead post of the partition is traveling .

If the partition is being retracted i.e. pulled back into the pocket the drive motor may displace the first portion A of the drive belt or drive chain in a direction as indicated by directional arrow . The lead post along with panels and hinge structures travel in the same direction as the first portion A of the drive belt or drive chain as indicated by directional arrow . The portion A of the cable extending between the lead post and the first redirect mechanism travels in the same direction as the lead post as indicated by directional arrow . The second portion B of the drive belt or drive chain travels in a direction opposite to that of the first portion A as indicated by directional arrow .

Thus in operation regardless of the position of the partition e.g. whether partially deployed fully deployed or fully retracted the cable is displaced concurrently with displacement of the lead post and other related components such that a portion A extending adjacent the lower edge of either or both of the first and second structures A adjusts in length to always remain relatively taut as it extends from the lead post to the first redirect mechanism .

By maintaining a desired level of tension in the portion A of the cable the first and second structures A and B or at least the lower edge thereof become limited in their ability to be laterally displaced i.e. displaced in a direction generally perpendicular to the longitudinal direction in which the portion A of the cable extends . For example as shown in which depicts cross sectional view of the partition as indicated by section lines in if a draft or other lateral force F is imposed on the first structure A of the partition the first structure A becomes displaced but only to the point of contacting the adjacent portion A of the cable . The cable serves to limit the displacement of the first structure A when it is subjected to such a force and thus prevents or at least minimizes air leakage from one side of the partition to the other i.e. from room A to B . In other words without a lateral restraint mechanism the lower edge of the first and second structures A and B could experience substantial lateral displacement when subjected to an external force such that a gap could be formed between the lower edge s of the first and second structures A and B and the floor or other surface directly adjacent the lower edge s of the first and second structures A and B and thereby allow substantial fluid flow through such a gap. As previously noted the development of such a gap would serve to diminish the purpose of the partition when used as a fire barrier a security barrier or even when used as a sound barrier. The variously described embodiments of the present invention minimize if not prevent substantial lateral displacement of the lower edges of the first and second structures A and B without the requirement of a track formed in the floor or other surface over which the partition traverses.

Referring now to a perspective view of a partition is shown which incorporates a lateral restraint mechanism in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. The lateral restraint mechanism may include a cable or other structure that is coupled to the lead post or other component of the partition at one end thereof and that is coupled to a take up mechanism at another end thereof. Thus the cable extends along the length of the partition near the lower edge of the first and or second structures A and B A not shown in . The take up mechanism may be configured to deploy or retract the cable concurrently and in conjunction with the deployment or retraction of the partition . For example the take up mechanism might include a drive such as a stepper motor configured such that upon deployment of the partition the motor deploys the cable at the same rate of deployment such that a desired level of tension is substantially maintained within the cable but without hindering the travel of the lead post . Similarly upon retraction of the partition the take up mechanism may be configured to retract the cable at the same rate of retraction experienced by the partition .

In another embodiment the take up mechanism may include a drive or other device that enables the cable to freely deploy until the partition is fully deployed and then applies a retraction force on the cable to induce a desired level of tension in the cable .

The take up mechanism may also include various types of drives or other actuators. In another embodiment for example the take up mechanism may include a stored energy device such as coiled spring which allows deployment of the cable upon displacement of the lead post away from the take up mechanism while using the potential energy of the coiled spring to retract the cable upon displacement of the lead post in a direction toward the take up mechanism . Such a mechanism might include a clutch or a braking device to control the storage and release of the stored energy.

While the invention may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and have been described in detail herein. However it should be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the invention includes all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following appended claims.

