---

title: Method and system for treating metal-containing fluid emissions
abstract: A system and associated method for removing metal, including metal in vapor form, from high temperature fluid emissions such as may occur at the exhaust of furnaces or thermal treatment equipment. One embodiment is the Integrated Metal Emissions Control System (IMECS™) incorporating both a Steel Screen Particulate (SSP) Filter System and a Perlite Based Sorbent (PBS) System. IMECS™ uses the SSP Filter System, with pore sizes down to one micron, to capture toxic metal particulate materials and the PBS System to capture vapor phase metals using surface-modified perlite. Using the IMECS™, EPA-listed heavy metals have been removed from representative high-temperature emissions in field tests to easily meet the NESHAP standards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07678178&OS=07678178&RS=07678178
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07678178
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070523
---
Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to an undivided interest therein on any patent granted thereon by the United States. This and related patents are available for licensing to qualified licensees. Please contact Bea Shahin at 217 373 7234.

DoD operates numerous stationary and mobile conventional demilitarization furnaces at various facilities. Air pollution regulations are becoming more stringent and require installations with these furnaces to control hazardous air pollutants HAPs . The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants NESHAP for hazardous waste combustors for incinerators includes reduction of particulate material emissions from 0.013 grams per dry standard cubic foot g dscf to 0.0015 g dscf. Allowed lead and cadmium emissions have been reduced from 230 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter g dscm to 10 g dscm. Similarly the arsenic beryllium and chromium standard has been reduced from 92 g dscm to 23 g dscm.

Preliminary analysis of emissions from the U.S. Army s demilitarization furnaces such as mobile Ammunition Peculiar Equipment APE 1408 Brass Certification Unit and stationary munitions deactivation furnace APE 1236 indicates the presence of lead cadmium and other metals. The U.S. Army operates a number of these brass certification units at various locations. The development of air pollution control technology allows for the continued use of these units within regulatory constraints significantly reducing release of HAPs.

The primary difficulty with controlling HAPs from deactivation furnaces derives from typical flow rates e.g. greater than 500 cfm of toxic metal vapors and particulates in emissions at temperatures reaching 550 C. Emissions at high flow rates require expensive pollution control systems. Speciation studies conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers Engineer Research and Development Center ERDC Construction Engineering Research Laboratory CERL on emissions from deactivation furnaces found that lead cadmium antimony and other metals are released in two phases solid particulates and vapors. Nearly 97 of the metals are in particulate form. Thus if the solids are captured in an initial treatment stage solid phase metal emissions are significantly reduced. However it is also necessary to capture vapor phase metal compounds to meet NESHAP standards.

A literature search revealed a few works dealing with the removal of lead vapor from a gas stream. Yang et al. reported a method of reducing volatile lead emissions from waste incineration by high temperature capture of vapor phase metals before they condense into fine particles. Packed bed sorption experiments with calcined kaolin at 973 1173 C. were conducted. Lead reacted with the sorbent to form water insoluble lead mineral complexes. Increased bed temperature resulted in increased capture rates but it had no effect on maximum uptake. Diffusional resistance developing in the interior of the porous kaolin particles became limiting only after the conversion of lead kaolin reached a value greater than 50 . Yang Hee Chul et al. 18 4 499 505 2001 .

Wronkowski reported adsorption of tetraethyl lead on two kinds of activated carbons at 18 C. with partial pressure from 0.03 0.9 atmosphere. The amount adsorbed depended on the specific surface of the given carbon and on the structure of its pores. Wronkowski Czeslaw 39 4 131 132 1965 .

Uberoi and Shadman evaluated several sorbents for removal of lead compounds mainly PbCl. The sorbents were silica alpha alumina and any of the natural compounds including kaolinite bauxite emathlite and lime. All experiments were conducted at 700 C. At this temperature PbClchemically reacted with the sorbent producing both water soluble and insoluble compounds. The authors provided relative sorption capacity with kaolinite giving the best result. Uberoi M. and Shadman M. Vol. 36 at 307 309 1990 .

Wey and his coworkers studied the adsorption mechanisms of heavy metals including lead on silica sands using a fluidized bed system operated from 600 800 C. At this temperature range chemical reactions rather than a physical adsorption are preferred. They noted that for lead both chemical and physical adsorption mechanisms are important and depend on the reacting environment. Saturation adsorption capacities of silica sand for lead were 16.08 mg g at 600 C. and 12 mg g at 800 C. Chen Scott et al. 216 Boston Aug. 23 27 1998. Chen J C. et al. J. of Environmental Engineering Vol. 127 No. 1 pp. 63 69 2001 .

Select embodiments of the present invention envision a system for treating metal containing fluid emissions from a source that comprises one or more first devices to capture and retain solid metal in fluid emissions the first devices connected to the source one or more second devices to capture and retain metal in vapor form the second devices downstream from the first devices with respect to the source and connected to the first devices and one or more fans connected to the second devices for facilitating movement of the fluid emissions through the system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system further comprises one or more stacks connected to the fans for exhausting the fluid emissions from the system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system further comprises connectors for connecting the source to the first devices the first devices to the second devices the second devices to the fans and the fans to the stacks.

In select embodiments of the present invention the connectors are conduits capable of withstanding temperatures up to approximately 1300 F. 705 C. .

In select embodiments of the present invention the system incorporates pressure gauges for monitoring pressure drop across each of the first and second devices.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system incorporates temperature gauges to monitor temperatures at the output of the source and the output of each first and second devices.

In select embodiments of the present invention each first and second device incorporates ports for monitoring the content of the fluid emissions.

In select embodiments of the present invention ports that facilitate removal of excess solids are incorporated in each of the first and second devices.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system incorporates valves permitting switching between multiple first devices operating in parallel thus permitting one or more first devices to be removed from operation for inspection and cleaning while the system is operating.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system incorporates valves permitting switching between multiple second devices operating in parallel such that use of the valves allows one or more second devices to be removed from operation for inspection and cleaning while the system is operating.

In select embodiments of the present invention each first device comprises one or more metal screens contained within an enclosed structure having an inlet and one or more outlets accessible during system operation the enclosed structure built to withstand a pre specified pressure and temperature.

In select embodiments of the present invention the enclosed structure and the metal screen of the first device at least partially comprise stainless steel the metal screen having a pore size in the range between of about 1 20 microns for filtering solids from fluid emissions having a temperature at or above about 650 F. 430 C. .

In select embodiments of the present invention the enclosed structure of the first device is configured to be opened by a user of the system for installation and removal of the metal screens the metal screens having a pore size of about one to about ten microns for filtering solids from fluid emissions at a temperature of about 900 1300 F. 490 705 C. and the enclosed structure is able to withstand pressure of about 100 psi and temperatures of at least 1300 F. 705 C. .

In select embodiments of the present invention the second device incorporates perlite positioned on at least one support contained within an enclosed structure having an inlet and one or more outlets and the enclosed second structure is built to withstand flows of a pre specified pressure and temperature.

In select embodiments of the present invention the perlite comprises at least in part surface modified perlite preferably acid treated.

In select embodiments of the present invention the enclosed structure of the second device is configured to be opened by a user of the system for installation and removal of the support and perlite the structure at least partially comprised of stainless steel and the support comprising in part one or more screens of about 20 100 mesh preferably about 60 mesh the perlite for filtering metal vapors from fluid emissions having a temperature in the range of about 900 F. 490 C. to about 1300 F. 705 C. and the enclosed structure for the second device built to handle pressures of about 100 psi and temperatures of at least 1300 F. 705 C. .

In select embodiments of the present invention a method for treating metal containing fluid emissions from a source comprises providing one or more first devices incorporated in a system the first devices connected with the source and used for capturing and retaining solid metal in the fluid emissions providing one or more second devices incorporated in the system for capturing and retaining metal in vapor form the second devices downstream from the first device with respect to the source and connected to the first devices and providing one or more fans incorporated in the system the fans connected to the second devices for facilitating movement of the fluid emissions through the system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method provides one or more stacks incorporated in the system and connected to the fans for exhausting the fluid emissions from the system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method further provides connectors from the source to the first devices from the first devices to the second devices from the second devices to the fans and from the fans to the stacks.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method is provided for treating metal containing fluid emissions from a source comprising capturing and retaining solid metal in the fluid emissions in one or more first devices incorporated in a system the first devices connected to the source capturing and retaining metal in vapor form in one or more second devices incorporated in the system downstream from the first devices with respect to the source the second devices connected to the first devices and facilitating movement of the fluid emissions from the source through the system via one or more fans connected to the second devices.

In select embodiments of the present invention a system for treating metal containing fluid emissions from a source comprises one or more means for capturing and retaining solid metal in the fluid emissions connected to the source one or more means for capturing and retaining metal in vapor form in the fluid emissions downstream from the means for capturing and retaining solid metal with respect to the source and connected to the means for capturing and retaining solid metal and one or more means for facilitating movement of the fluid emissions through the system connected to said means for capturing and retaining metal in vapor form.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system for treating metal containing fluid emissions further incorporates one or more means for exhausting the fluid emissions from the system connected to the means for facilitating movement of the fluid emissions.

In select embodiments of the present invention the Integrated Metal Emissions Control System IMECS incorporates both a Steel Screen Particulate SSP Filter System and a Perlite Based Sorbent PBS System. IMECS uses the SSP Filter System to capture toxic metal particulate materials and the PBS System to capture vapor phase metals.

Refer to a conceptual schematic of the IMECS . In select embodiments of the present invention the SSP Filter System efficiently captures metal and metal compound particulates at high temperatures using stainless steel screen filters. In select embodiments of the present invention the SSP Filter System may be used as a pretreatment system before a secondary emission control unit on stationary deactivation furnaces such as the APE 1236 conventional munitions deactivation furnace. In select embodiments of the present invention the base component of the SSP Filter System is a custom fabricated multi layer diffusion bonded screen with micron sized pore structures of stainless steel and high temperature alloy steels. For example in select embodiments of the present invention DYNAPORE 5 layer sintered wire mesh laminates supplied by Martin Kurtz Co. Inc. may be employed. These 1 10 m sintered 316L stainless steel mesh laminates are diffusion pressure bonded using a unique sintering process developed by Martin Kurtz Co. Inc. The sintered 316L stainless steel laminates are cut precisely to required size and passivated.

In select embodiments of the present invention these screens may withstand operation at temperatures up to about 1000 C. 1830 F. . In select embodiments of the present invention filters are installed within a metal housing capable of withstanding high temperatures. The air flow from a furnace exhaust passes through the filters horizontally. Select embodiments of the present invention may be used with one or more filter housings as necessary to facilitate continuous operation. In select embodiments of the present invention the filters are easy to maintain with various cleaning methods such as pulsejet sonication or back flush and the like and may be operated continuously if alternate operation cycles are split among multiple filter housings. If the pressure drop across the filter rises regardless of in situ cleaning in select embodiments of the present invention the filters may be removed for wet cleaning in an aqueous bath and reinstalled e.g. using a snap on clamping mechanism. In select embodiments of the present invention an alternative wet cleaning method is an ultrasonic bath with an aqueous cleaner fortified with surfactant. Select embodiments of the present invention may be scaled conveniently and integrated with mobile as well as stationary incinerator systems.

During investigation leading to development of select embodiments of the present invention stainless steel filters of various mesh sizes were characterized for pressure drop and particle penetration efficiency. Results of pressure drop across different pore size 1 m 2 m 5 m and 10 m steel filters are shown in . The data were collected in a laboratory test setup using ambient air. Boddu et al. IT3 05 Conference Texas May 2005 .

Table 1 includes the filtration efficiencies for four different m sized dust particle ranges for each of four stainless steel filters. As may be expected the volumetric flow rate for the 10 m filter was higher than for the other three. All the filtration efficiencies shown are based on particulate counts. The overall efficiency is calculated based on the total number of particles observed upstream as compared to downstream of the filter.

The PBS System as used in select embodiments of the present invention may comprise a dry high temperature metal container such as a stainless steel barrel filled with surface modified perlite as the sorbent material. In select embodiments of the present invention the sorbent material is chosen to sorb lead cadmium and other metals in vapor phase. Perlite is a very porous volcanic aluminosilicate material. The sorbent described here is an adaptation of the technology developed by ERDC CERL and described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 524 794 B2 Perlite Sorbents for Vapor Phase Metals and Metal Compounds to Boddu et al. issued Apr. 28 2009 and incorporated herein by reference. This sorbent is stable at high temperatures and has significant capacity for metal compounds including those of lead and other heavy metals. Lead sorbing on sulfuric acid modified perlites as a function of operating temperature is shown in . The sorbent performs well at temperatures above about 150 C about 300 F . This temperature is easily maintained at the exhaust stack of typical incinerators. Perlite with sulfuric acid surface modification was also used in the PBS System during tests conducted at Tooele Army Depot AD .

A select embodiment of the present invention the IMECS was installed and tested on a mobile APE 1408 Brass Certification Unit at Tooele AD. It treated a 500 cubic feet per minute cfm exhaust stream containing metal particulates and vapors. The IMECS captured approximately 97 of the lead and 99.5 of the copper in the stack emissions. The concentration of cadmium in the emissions was a maximum of about 4.4 g m. About 90 of the lead was removed by stainless steel filters with the remaining amount of captured lead sorbed by a modified perlite sorbent. The tests further demonstrated that the PBS System should be heated above about 150 C. about 300 F. before feed stock such as spent brass cases from small arms ammunition is introduced to a furnace.

Stainless steel filters can be operated at temperatures up to 1000 C. The sorbent used in select embodiments of the present invention performs best at temperatures at or above 150 C. In select embodiments of the present invention pressure drop across the filters is minimal because they are cleaned continuously with on line intermittent methods e.g. sonication. In select embodiments of the present invention the filters may be cleaned off line in an aqueous cleaning bath if required.

In select embodiments of the present invention the dry sorbent bed for capturing metal vapors uses modified perlite an aluminosilicate derived from volcanic sands readily available and very inexpensive. The stability and surface characteristics of perlite make it extremely well suited for high temperature applications. The sorption capacity for lead vapors particularly for sulfuric acid surface treated perlite as employed in select embodiments of the present invention is very high in comparison to conventional inexpensive sorbents used at similar temperatures. In select embodiments of the present invention the metal loaded sorbent may be regenerated easily and the metals recovered vitrified or encapsulated for disposal.

The IMECS as employed in select embodiments of the present invention is compact and may be easily scaled. Select embodiments of the present invention may be used as a stand alone system or components may be used separately as a pre treatment or post treatment system in conjunction with existing emission control systems.

Select embodiments of the present invention such as the IMECS have applications for treating particulates to include PM 2.5 and vapor phase emissions from fossil fuel burning and for treating emissions containing heavy metals such as lead and mercury. Stainless steel filters such as may be used with an embodiment of the present invention may be used as a pretreatment system in high temperature applications. In select embodiments of the present invention stainless steel filters in various configurations may replace bag houses and facilitate high temperature filtration. In select embodiments of the present invention the sorbent employed may be injected into the stack emissions and collected downstream in bag houses or any of various particulate filter collection systems.

Select embodiments of the present invention such as the IMECS are uniquely scalable to small combustion sources making them ideally suited as portable units. Unlike electrostatic precipitators IMECS may be used for both charged ionic and non charged particulates. Further select embodiments of the present invention do not use high voltage sources thus requiring less energy and reducing capital costs. Additionally in select embodiments of the present invention the individual components i.e. stainless steel filters or the dry sorbent may be used separately. In select embodiments of the present invention perlite is used as a sorbent for metal vapors specifically those existing at high temperatures. Preferably perlite employed in select embodiments of the present invention is surface modified perlite of any type such as chemically modified mechanically modified or a combination of the two. In select embodiments of the present invention perlite including surface modified variants may be injected into the exhaust stream or enclosed in a fixed bed either method employing perlite as a sorbent for metal vapors preferably at temperatures above about 150 C. about 300 F. .

The APE 1408 Brass Certification Unit as may be represented as a furnace in heats spent ammunition normally comprising a brass casing in some cases a spent steel primer residual primer compound and residual smokeless propellant gun powder at temperatures to about 1000 1200 F. about 490 650 C. for a pre specified duration. During this heating any of the residuals and any duds unfired cartridges possibly with a full complement of propellant and the copper clad lead core bullet are safely burnt or diffused. This cooking of the spent ammunition ensures safe handling for further metal recovery i.e. mainly the brass component of the casings . However during the cooking small amounts of residual regulated metals such as lead and cadmium may be released into the atmosphere. These regulated metals may be released in the form of either particulates or vapors or both.

Select embodiments of the present invention provide both a process and equipment for control of airborne metal emissions. Microporous steel screen filters located in metal housings A B capture particulates solids of metal while metal vapors are adsorbed by filter beds as contained in housing preferably employing surface modified perlite sorbents.

Refer to a schematic of a select embodiment of the present invention as may be represented by an emissions control system termed IMECS . The particulate filtering system termed the SSP Filter System a sub system of IMECS consists of two filter housings A B to accommodate approximately 20 inch square stainless steel filters not shown separately in valves for operating the individual filter housings A B separately as necessary and pressure gauges for monitoring pressure drop in each housing A B for indications of the efficiency of each and to indicate the need for off line cleaning when the pressure drop reaches a pre specified figure. In select embodiments of the present invention the steel filter housings A B are equipped with sonic horns not shown separately that are operated periodically or intermittently at a pre specified sonic frequency for cleaning by sonication.

In select embodiments of the present invention the filter housings A B are operated alternately permitting one to be cleaned off line as necessary e.g. a filter may be removed and cleaned in an aqueous cleaner bath and replaced without interruption of the filtering of the exhaust from the furnace .

Refer to . is a schematic of a sorbent bed system as may be used in select embodiments of the present invention e.g. as the PBS System of the IMECS . In select embodiments of the present invention the emissions from the particulate filtering system pass through a sorbent bed system prior to being exhausted through a flanged opening via a fan through a stack . In select embodiments of the present invention the pressure drop across the sorbent bed system is monitored by a pressure gauge and the temperature of the exhaust stream is also monitored via a temperature gauge to insure optimum conditions for sorbing of metal vapors onto the sorbent. Further in select embodiments of the present invention a sample port is provided at the output of the sorbent bed system to monitor performance of the system. In select embodiments of the present invention a butterfly valve is provided to serve as a drain for accumulated solids in the sorbent bed s supported on screens and the individual beds may be accessed via a flanged lid at the top of the sorbent bed system . In select embodiments of the present invention the sorbent system is designed to withstand internal pressure of about 100 psi at about 800 F. about 425 C. .

In select embodiments of the present invention one sorbent supporting screen is attached at the top of the sorbent bed system via a top screen support nominally 100 mesh stainless steel bolted to support brackets not shown separately welded into the inside diameter of the sorbent bed system and one sorbent supporting screen nominal 100 mesh stainless steel is supported by its support that includes support brackets A for holding sorbent at the bottom of the sorbent bed system . Other embodiments of the present invention may use a single sorbent support screen or even more than two sorbent support screens depending on user requirements. Further a second sorbent bed system not shown separately may be added in parallel if required for long term continuous operation so that one of the sorbent bed systems may be taken off line for re generation or cleaning. The saturated sorbent bed system also may be recharged with fresh sorbent during off line refurbishing.

Refer to a schematic of a support system for containing multiple sorbent beds in a cylindrical support bed system . During testing at Tooele Army Depot AD the sorbent modified perlite as described for a select embodiment of the 794 patent of a 60 mesh size was distributed among five beds using a total of five 100 mesh stainless steel screens top bottom and three equally spaced between the top and bottom screens . The central screens were placed on the supporting arms which were bolted on to a central supporting tube using the individual screen support configuration comprising rods affixed to a collar with a set screw or bolt through it for affixing to the supporting tube . An end cap is affixed to this supporting tube . In select embodiments of the present invention the central screens may be reduced to two or one. The purpose of additional screen supports for additional beds is to distribute the sorbent through the height of the sorbent bed system to prevent or reduce channeling in individual beds.

Pressure drop and particle penetration characterization of stainless steel filters and sorbent beds has been done in the laboratory. Boddu et al. 2005 . Further metal sorption solids and vapors combined at various locations within a fielded emissions control system was determined by comparing measurements of lead cadmium and other metals concentrations at each of these locations for six different test scenarios. Concentrations were measured using X Ray Florescence XRF . Concentrations of lead Pb Cadmium Cd Copper Cu Zinc Zn and Antimony Sb were monitored. Air flow rates pressure drop and temperatures were taken at the stainless steel screens sorbent bed and from the emissions stack of the fielded emissions control system.

In all of the six test scenarios the feed to the furnace was depleted brass casings not shown separately as described above. Although is not an exact schematic of the fielded emissions control system major items and their relative positions may be properly located thereon so references to may be applied in the following discussion of testing.

For this testing and sample collection the process consisted of Starting the APE 408 waiting until it reached operating temperature of about 700 F. 370 C. loading brass casings and additional lead as appropriate . Upon loading the APE 408 sample collection began. Samples were collected for about 20 minutes per sampling event. During the collection the flow rate of the emissions and pressure drops throughout the system were monitored. Untreated samples were collected by splitting the exhaust stream and passing it through a composite filter designed by Cooper Environmental Services Portland Oreg. The composite filter collects particulate matter and also vapor phase metals. The total flow of the air was measured through these sampling filters and from this an estimate was made of the concentration of each metal in the exhaust stream. Once a sample is collected the sonication horn is activated for a few seconds nominally 10 sec and after the sonication event the next sample collection began. A typical test ran about 1 1.5 hours including heating the furnace sonication events and sample collection.

In the first of the six test scenarios the brass casings were fed into a 950 F. 510 C. furnace at 200 lb hr and no lead was added. The flow rate at the stack was 500 actual cubic feet per minute acfm and the stainless steel filters not shown separately but embedded in the SSP Filter System of had a pore size of 2 m the smallest size used in any of these six test scenarios. Results of this field study for each of five targeted metals are shown in where Location is at the exhaust of the furnace Location is after the stainless steel filter system but before the sorbent bed system and Location is at the stack . As can be seen a considerable portion of each metal is removed at the stainless steel filter system and virtually all of each metal is removed after the exhaust flows through the sorbent bed system to the stack . Note that negligible amounts of Cd were present at the start of treatment Location .

A second test scenario changed the feed rate and the furnace temperature and added lead. The feed to the furnace was depleted brass casings as described above. Note that the brass casings may not have been of the same type for each of the firings in the six tests and there was no effort to insure homogeneity of feed stock for all six tests e.g. mixing enough brass casings together to supply all six tests and randomly selecting brass casings for each test from the bulk mixture. The feed rate for different tests was planned to be different as well as the lead content. The intention was to test different rates of loadings however the temperatures were also varied slightly as may be experienced in real world operation of similar systems. 

The casings were fed into a 1192 F. about 650 C. furnace at 156 lb hr and lead was added at 1.5 lbs hr. The stack flow rate was 500 acfm and the stainless steel filters had a pore size of 2 m. Results of this field study for each of the targeted metals are shown in where Location is at the exhaust of the furnace Location is after the stainless steel filter system but before the sorbent bed system and Location is at the stack . As can be seen even with added lead a significantly higher percent of metal was removed at the stainless steel filter system than in the first test when lower furnace temperatures were employed and nearly all of each metal is removed after the exhaust flows through the sorbent bed system . Thus select embodiments of the present invention are particularly effective at high exhaust gas temperatures. Note again that negligible amounts of Cd were present at the start of treatment Location .

A third test kept the feed rates of the second test reduced the furnace temperature somewhat and added even more lead while more than doubling the pore size of the stainless steel filters. The feed to the furnace was depleted brass casings as described above. The casings were fed into a 1094 F. 590 C. furnace at 156 lb hr and lead was added at 2.25 lbs hr. The stack flow rate was 500 acfm and the stainless steel filters had a pore size of 5 m. Results of this field study for each of the targeted metals are shown in where Location is at the exhaust of the furnace Location is after the stainless steel filter system but before the sorbent bed system and Location is at the stack . As can be seen even with more added lead and reduced furnace exhaust temperature a high percent of metal was removed at the stainless steel filter system and virtually all of each metal is removed after the exhaust flows through the sorbent bed system . Thus select embodiments of the present invention are particularly effective at relatively high exhaust gas temperatures even with increased lead loads. Note again that negligible amounts of Cd were present at the start of treatment Location .

A fourth test kept the feed rates of the second test reduced the added lead and increased the furnace temperature to approximately that of the second test and kept the pore size of the third test while increasing the emissions flow rate. The feed to the furnace was depleted brass casings as described above. The casings were fed into a 1199 F. about 650 C. furnace at 156 lb hr and lead was added at 1.5 lbs hr. The stack flow rate was 625 acfm and the stainless steel filters had a pore size of 5 m. Results of this field study for each of the targeted metals are shown in where Location is at the exhaust of the furnace Location is after the stainless steel filter system but before the sorbent bed system and Location is at the stack . As can be seen even with increased stack flow rate high furnace exhaust temperature and the increased pore size a high percent of metal was removed at the stainless steel filter system and nearly all of each metal is removed after the exhaust flows through the sorbent bed system . Thus select embodiments of the present invention are particularly effective at high exhaust gas temperatures even with increased stack flow rates. Note again that negligible amounts of Cd were present at the start of treatment Location .

A fifth test kept the feed rates of the second test increased the added lead and decreased the furnace temperature to just above that of the first test and kept the pore size of the third test and the emissions flow rate of the fourth test. The feed to the furnace was depleted brass casings as described above. The casings were fed into a 1017 F. about 545 C. furnace at 156 lb hr and lead was added at 3 lbs hr. The stack flow rate was 625 acfm and the stainless steel filters had a pore size of 5 m. Results of this field study for each of the targeted metals are shown in where Location is at the exhaust of the furnace Location is after the stainless steel filter system but before the sorbent bed system and Location is at the stack . As can be seen even with increased stack flow rate high furnace exhaust temperature and the increased pore size a high percent of metal was removed at the stainless steel filter system and nearly all of each metal is removed after the exhaust flows through the sorbent bed system . Thus select embodiments of the present invention are particularly effective at even relatively high exhaust gas temperatures even with increased lead feed and increased stack flow rates. Note again that almost immeasurable amounts of Cd were present at the start of treatment Location .

A sixth test kept the feed rates of the second test and the increased added lead of the fifth test increased the furnace temperature to just above that of the third test and kept the pore size of the third test while the emissions flow rate was increased to the highest of all tests. The feed to the furnace was depleted brass casings as described above. The casings were fed into a 1130 F. 610 C. furnace at 156 lb hr and lead was added at 3 lbs hr. The stack flow rate was 708 acfm and the stainless steel filters had a pore size of 5 m. Results of this field study for each of the targeted metals are shown in where Location is at the exhaust of the furnace Location is after the stainless steel filter system but before the sorbent bed system and Location is at the stack . As can be seen even with increased stack flow rate high furnace exhaust temperature and the increased pore size a very high percent of metal was removed at the stainless steel filter system and nearly all of each metal is removed after the exhaust flows through the sorbent bed system . Thus select embodiments of the present invention are particularly effective at high exhaust gas temperatures even with increased lead feed and increased stack flow rates. Note again that almost immeasurable amounts of Cd were present at the start of treatment Location .

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of some of its embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples for collecting airborne metal emissions it may be used for any type of fluid emissions and thus may be useful in such diverse applications as manufacturing mining smelting refining re cycling remediating power production and the like. Emissions of interest may be from stacks at manufacturing plants or power production facilities smelters refineries portable incinerators portable generators portable treatment furnaces and the like. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

