---

title: Service summary indicator
abstract: A method, system, and computer-readable storage media is provided for consolidating an operating status of a mobile device. APIs and applications operate in the mobile device to collect various data associated with the operation of the mobile device. The mobile device can be configured by a user or a service provider system to determine which data to collect. The collected data is consolidated through calculations resulting in a single value or variable that indicates the operating health of the mobile device. A visual representation of the single value or variable is provided in a display at the mobile device to illustrate the health of the mobile device to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08423086&OS=08423086&RS=08423086
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08423086
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071011
---
The present invention generally relates to providing a summary indicator about the operating health of a mobile device. Various data surrounding the operating condition of the mobile device may be collected and analyzed. The collected and analyzed data may be consolidated through various calculations into a consolidated status.

In a first aspect a method for consolidating an operation status of a mobile device into a single view is provided that includes collecting sets of information related to an operation of the mobile device. The sets of information are consolidated into a variable. The variable represents a consolidated status of the mobile device. A visual representation is provided of the variable at a display at the mobile device.

In another aspect a system to provide a consolidated operating status of a mobile device is provided that includes a processor a memory and a display connected together in the mobile device. The processor operates to initiate and receive an information. The processor operates application programming interfaces that access different operational data related to the mobile device. The processor operates applications to read the different operational data from either or both the application programming interfaces and the memory. The memory operates to store the different operational data. The applications operate to consolidate the different operational data into a single representation that indicates an operational health of the mobile device. The display operates to show the single representation.

In yet another aspect computer readable storage media having computer instructions embodied thereon for performing a method for consolidating an operation status of a mobile device into a single view is provided that includes collecting sets of information related to an operation of the mobile device. The sets of information are consolidated into a consolidated status of the mobile device. A visual representation of the consolidated status is provided at a display at the mobile device.

The present invention provides a method system and computer readable storage media for consolidating an operation status of a mobile device. In an embodiment a summary indicator is created illustrating the operating health of a mobile device. Various data surrounding the operating condition of the mobile device is collected and analyzed. The collected and analyzed data may be consolidated through various calculations into a consolidated status.

Having briefly described an embodiment of the present invention an exemplary operating environment for the present invention is described below.

The present invention operates in a computing device environment. In particular a mobile device is used to implement the present invention to provide a consolidated status about the mobile device. The mobile device is a computing device and includes components such as a processor memory and a display. Other components may be found in the computing device and more specifically the mobile device may include components not mentioned here related to its particular function. Typically the mobile device includes devices such as cellular telephones personal digital assistants PDAs short message service SMS devices smart phones handheld computers and other wireless devices.

Along with the description of the mobile devices above the present invention is implemented with various software programs. The software programs operate on the mobile devices and may be found in the form of applications application programming interfaces APIs and operating systems.

As previously mentioned the present invention generally relates to providing a summary indicator about the operating health of a mobile device. Various data surrounding the operating condition of the mobile device may be collected and analyzed. The collected and analyzed data may be consolidated through various calculations into a consolidated status which can be provided in a visual representation.

In a block diagram of an exemplary operating environment is shown. Environment operates with a battery level a radio frequency RF strength a signal strength a billing plan and a usage states . Collectively battery level RF strength signal strength billing plan and usage status may be referred to as the set of operating data. As environment is an exemplary operating environment the set of operating data is exemplary and may include other data not mentioned here. Other data may be used in other implementations of embodiments of the present invention.

The set of operating data along with other data may be termed as services awareness. For example billing plan and or usage status can be based on the user s data plan and usage subscription status. In a scenario the user might have used 2.05 megabits of data at a cost of sixty dollars. In some cases the user now has to pay premium rates because they have exceeded a certain limit. Hence usage status may be recorded as being low or bad. Or the user may have an unlimited data plan. In this case usage status may be recorded as being high or good. RF strength may provide a status such as roaming status. Signal strength can provide information on quality.

Service awareness includes being aware of a user s service plan such as specific quality of service QoS rates in a subscription. Service awareness can include monitoring background data processing such as a listener type of applications or background SMS. Service awareness may also include logging or diagnostics for any application running in the foreground. Even further service awareness may include any connectivity lags in real time or near real time such as the lag between two instant messages.

The set of operating data that exists is broad and not only describes the particular items mentioned above but also describes the flow of information back and forth into the mobile device and other systems not shown. For example radio frequency strength represents the data that flows into the mobile device and also represents the data related to it in the mobile device.

As shown in battery level RF strength signal strength billing plan and usage status may be collected and provided to consolidator . Consolidator exists in various forms depending on the implementation of the embodiment of the present invention. Consolidator may be an aggregator of the data that comes to it. It may also be an algorithm that performs one or more calculations based on the data that is provided to it. Consolidator can exist as part of a processor or can be a standalone applications that operates with other software.

The output of consolidator may be provided as a status . Status can represent a consolidated status that is created as a result of the efforts of consolidator . Also status may be a visual representation of the output of consolidator . For example the set of operating data may be manipulated by consolidator to provide a single result. This single result may in turn correlate to a set of visual representations that can be displayed. The result may be provided in the form of a picture a graph a set of colors or a text. As the result changes the corresponding visual representation also changes.

The set of operating data is dynamic as to which type is used in an embodiment. Not all of the set of operating data needs to be provided to consolidator . For example in one embodiment a user or a system may configure the mobile device to collect information related to battery level and signal strength . This configuration would allow consolidator to receive or read information related to battery level and signal strength to provide status . In another embodiment the user or the system may configure the mobile device to collect information related to RF strength and usage status . Again consolidator can manipulate the operating data to provide status .

Turning now to an exemplary display of a mobile device is shown with a display and a service status . Display is a screen display that may be found in various handheld devices such as mobile phones PDAs SMS devices and handheld computers. Display provides visual information for a user to interact with mobile device . Typically display may illustrate a set of graphical icons or other text information which allows a user to interact with the mobile device. This interaction may include the user providing input to the mobile device using a set of keys with the keystrokes shown through the visual representation on display . This interaction may also include the user receiving visual information from the mobile device at display .

A set of visual information may be received from display . The type of visual information is extensive and can be dynamic depending on a number of factors related to the operation of mobile device . Display functions as the primary visual interface for mobile device . For example the user can manipulate various functions related to mobile device using display . In some embodiments display may accept inputs and provide the visual information. In other embodiments as mentioned earlier display may provide the visual information based on inputs provided at a keyboard or a set of keys located elsewhere.

With an implementation of an embodiment of the present invention service status can be seen on display . Service status illustrates an operation status of mobile device . In this case service status shows a smiling face which would indicate a good operating condition of mobile device . The smiling face is a single visual reference that can correspond to a variety of factors underlying the pictorial representation. As discussed above mobile device may include a configuration that considers several data inputs related to the operation of mobile device . The goal of the present invention is to prevent the user from locating each operating aspect of mobile device to determine its operation health. Rather than locate battery level determine RF strength or monitor usage status the user can view one visual representation in the form of service status . The underlying calculations and consolidations are performed automatically in the background to improve the user s experience and ease of use with mobile device .

In another exemplary display of a mobile device is shown implementing an embodiment of the present invention. Exemplary display and mobile device are similar to exemplary display and mobile device . Mobile device includes a display which is similar to display . As shown in a service status shows a sad face indicating a problem with the operation health of mobile device . Service status provides a quick reference about one or more problems that may exist in mobile device . The user is provided quick visual information about mobile device without having to search for a variety of information.

The list of things that can go wrong with mobile device can vary tremendously. Service statuses and provide quick references to the user to obtain instant information regarding the health of the mobile device. The way in which the user obtains service statuses and can vary according to an implementation of the embodiment of the present invention. For example the embodiment can be implemented to automatically provide a service status on a periodic basis. The user can configure the mobile device to provide a service status on the display every three 3 hours or some other time period. Another embodiment can be implemented where the user configures the mobile device to provide a service status only when there is a problem such as service status . In this embodiment the mobile device can be configured such that a periodic calculation occurs in the background without the user knowing about the calculation at consolidator . If the result indicates service status no action is taken and the result is treated as a normal operation. However if the result indicates service status service status is shown on display notifying the user of an abnormal operating condition of the mobile device. If desired further the user can obtain details behind the calculations to pinpoint the cause of the abnormal operating condition indicated by service status .

In other implementations of embodiments of the present invention status which is shown above at service statuses and may be illustrated in other forms at displays and . For example rather than a smiley face or a sad face service statuses and can also be a graph a set of colors or a text. The graph can provide an indicator with a set of reference markings identifying the operating health of the mobile device. In another embodiment colors may be used to indicate the operating health. The color green may be used to indicate a good or normal operating condition. The color yellow may be used to indicate a warning condition. The color red may be used to indicate a bad or harmful operating condition. The color red may also be used to indicate no service for the mobile device. Finally text may be used to provide detailed information to the user. Text can also be used to pinpoint the source of a problem. Although various service statuses are discussed the list of the types of services statuses that may be provided at displays and is not exhaustive and may include others not listed here. The common aspect of the service statuses is that they are derived based on a consolidation of operating data. The service statuses can be created based on the output from consolidator or based on a variable that is created as the result of consolidator .

An implementer of an embodiment of the present invention may vary the information indicated by status and service statuses and . Service indication from status and service statuses and can also include and be the following a simple indicator to notify the user of the quality and status of service a data miner of the mobile device s logs which derive user decipherable indicators an indicator of logs or data that are delivered to back office systems for analysis or archiving or an indicator with a real time interface between a customer care organization and the mobile device to check service status. In addition status and service statuses and may provide service indications for an impact of certain service types such as roaming and not receiving certain data feed. Status and service statuses and may provide service indications of corrective measures. For example a message can be received that states due to high traffic the user s text message will be queued and delivered within approximately five minutes.

Turning now to an exemplary process for consolidating an operation status of mobile devices and is shown in a method . In a step mobile devices and are configured to select data for consolidation. This data is similar to battery level RF strength signal strength billing plan and usage status . This data was identified earlier as the set of operating data. At least two or more of these data items are selected for consolidation. In a step the selected data items are collected and stored at the mobile device. Typically these data items relate to the operation of mobile devices and . In a step consolidator consolidates the data items into a variable. This step takes a multitude of information and aggregates or calculates a single variable which acts as an indicator of the operation health of mobile devices and . In a step a visual representation of the variable is provided at displays and respectively in mobile devices and . The visual representations are service statuses and or other variations such as a graph set of colors or text.

In an exemplary process for operating a system to consolidate an operating status of mobile devices and is shown in a method . In a step mobile devices and operate a processor memory and a display connected together in their respective devices. In a step the processor in mobile devices and can initiate and receive either telephone calls or text messages. In a step the processor can operate APIs to access operating data related to mobile devices and . In a step the processor can also operate applications to read data from the APIs running in the processor or from memory. In a step the memory stores data which may be accessed by the processor. In a step applications operate to consolidate consolidator data into a representation that indicates an operational health of mobile devices and . The representation can be status or service statuses and . In a step the display operates to show the representation. The display can be displays and .

The steps identified in may be executed without regard to order. Some of the steps are coupled together but this is merely exemplary to illustrate the embodiment of the present invention. For example step may be executed before step . Step may be executed before step .

When mobile device encounters a problem that is detected and illustrated with service status mobile device may be configured to perform a self analysis to identify the particular problem. In addition mobile device may be configured to fix the problem with little or no user interaction. For example a problem with the battery level could tell the user with service status to recharge the battery. Or additional information could tell the user that the user is approaching or exceeding limits imposed by the user s billing plan. If the user has a fixed number of talk minutes for the mobile device an implementation of an embodiment of the present invention can provide information related to the user s usage of the mobile device.

As discussed above various implementations of the present invention can use the service statuses and other information to provide solutions to the user s problems with the mobile device. Some of the problems can be resolved automatically while others may require manual intervention by the user or the service provider s system. A user s manual intervention would be in the form of physically charging the devices battery while a system s manual intervention would be in the form of boosting the signal strength either at the mobile device or another network device. The system could also modify signaling connections to make improvements such as transferring communication between mobile device and network device A to mobile device and network device B.

In continuing the discussion of self analysis and resolution of problems the user of the mobile device could interact with a customer care organization to fix problems once the user receive a service status like service status . For example in the case of service disruption the user could chat with the customer care organization using instant messaging text messaging or high performance push to talk HPPTT which is a version of QCHAT developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. The customer care representative can push a message to the mobile device such as the following Hi I am your customer care help. You seem to be roaming. Please be aware that you may incur higher charge on the usage of this service while roaming on a different network. 

Implementations of embodiments of the present invention can provide a basis for cross selling of new features and services. For example service status dispatches from the mobile device can alert a sales team that a customer is using a low horsepower mobile device to play high speed games. In a scenario the sales team can send a message to the user about a better mobile device that may be suited or more compatible for the games that are played. Or another scenario may involve the user that travels extensively. The sales team can send a message about a better phone service plan that might include nationwide roaming or might include mobile device features with international capability.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that methods and systems in accordance with the present invention may be implemented using computer software. Such software may take the form of computer readable code embodied on one or more computer readable media. Software implementing the present invention may operate independently but may also be incorporated with other software or vendor programs. Various software languages may be used to implement methods and systems in accordance with the present invention.

