---

title: Method and apparatus for implementing optical deflection switching using coupled resonators
abstract: A method of implementing optical deflection switching includes directing a tuning operation at a specific region of coupled optical resonators coupled to an input port, a first output port and a second output port, the coupled optical resonator including a plurality of cascaded unit cells; wherein the tuning operation interrupts a resonant coupling between one or more of the unit cells of the coupled resonators so as to cause an input optical signal from the input port to be directed from the first output port to the second output port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139904&OS=08139904&RS=08139904
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08139904
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070918
---
This invention was made with U.S. Government support under DARPA ONR grant No. N00014 04 C 0455. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to optical switching techniques and more particularly to a method and apparatus for implementing optical deflection switching using coupled optical waveguide resonators.

Multi core microprocessor architectures have been developed in order to mitigate increased power dissipation in high performance computer chips. However the bandwidth limitations for global electrical interconnections between various cores are rapidly becoming the major factor in restricting further scaling of total chip performance. One approach resolving this interconnect bottleneck is to transmit and route signals in the optical domain since optical signals can provide both immense aggregate bandwidth and large savings in on chip dissipated power.

Many existing types of optical switches fall under the category of microelectromechanical MEMS devices in which tiny components such as prisms or mirrors are positionally adjusted in order to redirect input optical signals. However such MEMS devices are not suited for multi core chip scaling purposes. On the other hand the field of integrated optics has expanded tremendously in recent years and integrated optical device solutions are now being proposed for applications in a variety of fields including for example telecommunications data communications high performance computing biological and chemical sensing and radio frequency RF networks.

In this regard an optical waveguide or combination of optical waveguides may be formed on an integrated circuit IC to form devices such as optical resonators arrayed waveguide gratings couplers splitters polarization splitters combiners polarization rotators Mach Zehnder MZ interferometers multimode interference waveguides gratings mode transformers delay lines and optical vias. Such on chip devices may in turn be used to create an integrated optical circuit or planar light wave circuit that performs one or more optical functions such as for example multiplexing demultiplexing optical add drop variable attenuation switching splitting combining filtering spectral analysis variable optical delay clock distribution amplitude phase modulation polarization rotation comb generation and dispersion compensation.

Although recent advances in silicon nanophotonics has improved the prospects for complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS compatible on chip networks for multi core chips there is still a need for a broadband scalable optical switching methodology and structure that has low latency low power dissipation and high throughput.

The foregoing discussed drawbacks and deficiencies are overcome or alleviated in an exemplary embodiment by a method of implementing optical deflection switching including directing a tuning operation at a specific region of coupled optical resonators coupled to an input port a first output port and a second output port the coupled optical resonators including a plurality of cascaded unit cells wherein the tuning operation interrupts the resonant coupling between one or more of the unit cells of the coupled resonators so as to cause an input optical signal from the input port to be directed from the first output port to the second output port.

In another embodiment an optical deflection switch apparatus includes coupled optical resonators formed on an integrated circuit substrate the coupled optical resonators including a plurality of cascaded unit cells an input port a first output port and a second output port coupled to the coupled optical resonators and a tuning mechanism is configured to introduce a tuning operation at a specific region of the coupled optical resonators wherein the tuning operation interrupts a resonant coupling between one or more of the unit cells of the coupled resonators so as to cause an input optical signal from the input port to be directed from the first output port to the second output port.

Disclosed herein is a method and apparatus for implementing optical deflection switching using coupled resonators. Briefly stated the present embodiments implement an optical switching solution in which an input optical signal is selectively switched so as to be routed between a dropping port and a through port depending upon whether at least one of the optical resonators in a series of coupled resonators e.g. a multiple unit ring shaped optical resonator is tuned in a manner so as disturb or interrupt the resonant coupling between the individual units of the compound resonator. By deactivating the source of the tuning the resonant coupling between the individual units of the compound resonators is then restored thus switching the output path of the input optical signal back to the dropping port or the through port depending upon how the ports are defined . Stated more generally the coupled resonator switches the path of an input optical signal between a first output port and a second output port when tuned by the application of a tuning operation thereto and vice versa when the tuning operation is removed.

Advantageously the optical characteristics of only one unit cell of the coupled optical resonators or one coupling region between a pair of unit cells need be altered by the tuning operation in order to interrupt the resonant coupling between the units. Consequently the device area and power used for tuning of the switch may be reduced since the tuning need not be directed to the entire unit structure of the coupled resonators. More generally so long as the tuning mechanism operation utilized does not alter all of the resonator unit cells in the same manner with respect to one another the resonant coupling therebetween will be disturbed as described in further detail hereinafter. As also described herein the present optical switching approach can also be used to simultaneously switch input optical signals within multiple passbands.

Optical resonators are optical cavities supporting standing or traveling wave resonant optical modes. Examples of optical resonator waveguides include an optical waveguide curved in a form of a disk geometry ring geometry ellipse geometry or racetrack geometry. Optical resonator waveguides having the ring geometry are the most commonly studied resonator cavity for integrated optical devices with a set of resonance wavelengths determined by the radius and effective index of the cavity. Optical resonators may be used singly or alternatively in multiple units so as to form coupled optical resonators of higher order cascades e.g. 3 5 etc. .

Referring initially to through there are shown schematic diagrams of various examples of coupled optical resonators respectively suitable for use in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the coupled resonator includes a plurality of cascaded individual resonators which are also referred to herein as unit cells formed on a substrate which may also serve as an optical waveguide. In this particular example each unit cell includes a plurality of individual ridges and at least one other ridge which has a different optical property e.g. size material with respect to ridges . Similarly the coupled resonator of includes a plurality of cascaded individual resonators or unit cells formed on a substrate which again may also serve as an optical waveguide. In this embodiment each unit cell includes a plurality of individual features such as holes formed in the substrate and at least one other feature which has a different optical property e.g. a hole filled with a material with respect to holes .

Each of the coupled resonators described above is configured for used as a space type switch which is characterized by multiple input output ports to redirect optical signals as opposed to a gate type switch having one input port and one output port to switch the optical signal on and off . More specifically the coupled resonators are coupled to an input port a through port and a dropping port. Depending upon whether the resonator is tuned an input optical signal is directed through one of the through port or the dropping port. By way of example it is assumed herein that when the coupled resonator is not tuned i.e. the effective refractive index of each unit cell remains constant with respect to one another and hence the resonant coupling therebetween is undisturbed the optical signal is directed to the dropping port. Conversely when the coupled resonator is tuned i.e. the effective refractive index of at least one unit cell is altered with respect to the others and hence the resonant coupling therebetween is disturbed the optical signal is directed to the through port. It should be appreciated however that the directions could also be reversed by changing the definitions of the dropping and through ports or the initial operational condition.

As specifically shown in the top portion of the graph there are a plurality of pass bands in the near infrared NIR spectrum through the drop port when all of the unit cells of the coupled resonator are in tune with one another i.e. the resonant coupling between the cascaded unit cells remains undisturbed . Correspondingly the bottom portion of the graph depicts transmission spectra in the through port. However when the resonance of one of the rings e.g. the third ring is individual tuned the resonant coupling between the unit cells is disturbed. As a result it is seen from the top portion of the graph that the pass bands are now attenuated in the drop port and are instead passed through the through port in the bottom portion of the graph of .

As will also be noted from the tuner may be configured to selectively disturb the resonant coupling between the unit cells in any of a number of ways. However one economical way of carrying this out is to focus the tuning operation on just one of any of the N unit cells as indicated by the dashed arrows or by focusing the tuning operation on a coupling region or junction of adjacent unit cells as indicated by the solid arrow . Other possibilities are also contemplated for the tuning operation e.g. changing the effective refractive index of all but one of the unit cells so long as the applied index of refraction change does not affect all of the cells in the same manner. Otherwise where the same index change is applied to all unit cells the resonant coupling between the unit cells in the coupled resonator is not actually disturbed rather the resonator merely acts as a tunable filter in this instance to pass a different band s through the drop port and not act as a space type switch.

Referring next to and the pair of graphs shown therein illustrate the switching effects of the resonator as the tuning changing of effective index of refraction in the excited region of the resonator is shifted from 0 to 0.03 in increments of 0.003. depicts transmission curves of a transmission spectrum through the dropping port as the effective index is increasingly changed while depicts the corresponding transmission curves through the through port. As is shown where no laser energy is applied curve in both figures the effective index remains unchanged and the pass band wavelengths are passed through the dropping port and are essentially blocked through the through port.

Then as more power is applied by the laser the effective index at the targeted region of the resonator is gradually increased in increments of 0.003 as reflected in curves through of and wherein the last pair of curves represents an index change of 0.03. As is shown the increase in effective index begins to disturb the resonant coupling in the resonator and gradually blocks transmission of the pass band through the drop port while passing the band through the through port.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment or embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

