---

title: System and method for remote data acquisition and distribution
abstract: Methods and systems for remote data collection and distribution include components and operations for receiving, at a server, data transmitted by a first client device via a communication network. The method may also include selecting, by one or more client devices associated with the communication network, a second device to receive the data. The method may further include establishing a connection between the server and the selected second device via the communication network. The method may also include automatically transmitting the received data to the second device using the connection via the communication network. The method may further include causing, by the one or more client devices, the second device to execute a predefined operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860994&OS=07860994&RS=07860994
owner: Reality Mobile LLC
number: 07860994
owner_city: Herndon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070116
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 758 983 filed Jan. 17 2006 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application relates generally to data collection systems and more particularly to a system and method for remote data acquisition and distribution using fixed or mobile computing platforms.

There are various technologies available in the marketplace for an organization to communicate in real time with its personnel deployed in the field.

At the most basic level the organization can maintain direct verbal communication using one or more kinds of mobile communication devices such as cellular phones two way radios or other handheld devices. With the necessary wireless data connection some of those devices can also transmit and receive various data through instant messaging text messaging mobile email multimedia messaging and comparable service offerings. Using multimedia messaging for instance the organization and its deployed personnel can share messages with each other that include previously stored data files such as text photos animated graphics voice messages and pre recorded video clips.

The ability to communicate effectively becomes more challenging as the situation in the field becomes more fluid. An incident may have occurred be in the process of occurring or be at risk of occurring. The more urgent and or geographically dispersed the incident the harder it can be for the organization to remotely monitor the situation and provide effective guidance to deployed personnel. Hurricane Katrina provides but one recent example of the communication challenges that can arise. At least in the initial stages of an incident an organization may be relying on two way verbal communications with fast moving personnel on the ground. If the organization wants live visual imagery to help monitor and analyze the situation it has several potential means to obtain it.

The organization can seek any available satellite imagery or aerial photography of the incident location. These technologies can produce high resolution images which are increasingly available from public and private sources. For example the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration made available on its Website images of the Gulf coast following Hurricane Katrina http ngs.woc.noaa.gov katrina . From the organization s perspective the problem with these technologies is the lag that occurs from the time an incident has first occurred to the time the satellite or aerial vehicle is physically in a position to capture the imagery if at all to the time it takes to process the captured imagery and make it available for viewing. This time lag can be measured in hours days or longer depending on various factors.

If the organization has its own video surveillance network in place in the area of interest it can check whether any of its networked cameras are capturing the requisite imagery. That technology has been evolving over the years. The traditional closed circuit TV setup involves analog cameras mounted at fixed positions and connected to a central command center via a dedicated cable connection. The cameras capture and transmit complete image frames which are viewed on a television monitor and archived using a video recording device. If a particular camera has pan tilt zoom PTZ controls the command center may also be able to remotely access those controls for enhanced viewing angles.

A recent trend has been the creation of IP based surveillance networks of fixed cameras connected via wired and or wireless networks. Such fixed IP cameras capture raw image frames that are compressed prior to transmission using a commercially available compression standard. Equipment on the network can also convert analog camera frames to digital ones using various commercially available technologies. Two of the most common compression standards are the Motion JPEG or M JPEG standard and the MPEG standard.

The motion JPEG standard or Motion Joint Photographic Experts Group standard compresses each raw image on an intraframe or frame by frame basis. The MPEG standard or Moving Pictures Expert Group standard compresses the raw images on an intra frame and inter frame basis. Once compressed the imagery is capable of being viewed analyzed and stored in multiple ways. By way of example the imagery can be viewed on computer monitors certain mobile devices and other equipment and can be archived on digital video recorders personal computers and other mass storage solutions.

An IP based network can provide other benefits as well. Many fixed IP cameras and converted analog cameras have a Web server application embedded in them. Each Web server has a unique URL or Uniform Resource Locator which may allow a fixed camera s live image stream to be viewed remotely through any Web browser or other Web enabled application. The Web browser communicates directly with the fixed camera s dedicated Web server using a common Web protocol such as HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol or RTP Real Time Protocol . Various vendors make available software applications that allow a mobile communication device to remotely view a fixed camera s live image stream through the embedded Web browser on the mobile device. Some of those applications also allow the mobile communication device to remotely control a fixed camera s available PTZ movements.

Further a fixed camera s geospatial coordinates if available can be mapped to a Geographic Information System GIS or other viewing application for enhanced visualization by an organization. The Google Earth viewing application is one increasingly popular example of this type of service offering. Depending on each service offering s particular format a camera s physical location can be depicted as an icon on a map and the camera s URL can be shown as a hyperlink. By clicking on the hyperlink the camera s live image stream can be viewed on the screen using a Web browser connected to the camera s server.

One problem with any analog or IP based surveillance network is the inherent geographical limits of its fixed network cameras. A video camera has a limited viewing area range. If an incident is occurring 50 miles from the nearest fixed camera the organization and its mobile personnel will not be able to view the event. If an organization has the available resources it can seek to put in place near the incident a temporary surveillance network using cameras that transmit over a wireless network. This type of network is often set up using a Wi Fi wireless local area network or in some cases using an available commercial cellular network or a satellite connection.

Even if an organization deploys a temporary mobile network there are inherent limitations. There will inevitably be an initial time delay in setting up the network and the network will still not be effective beyond the range of its cameras. There will also be an additional lag each time the network is redeployed to a new location in an effort to keep up with a geographically dispersed incident.

An organization can also seek to obtain visual images and other data from its deployed personnel or other sources near the incident. There are various data distribution technologies available to do so.

There are commercially available videophones and other video conferencing technologies that allow for simultaneous peer to peer video and audio data transmissions but only among connected users operating compatible viewing hardware.

A person with a digital camera camcorder webcam or comparable device can capture live images transmit them via a wired or in some cases wireless connection to a personal computer or a laptop and save them as data files. Those data files can then be transferred through an email type transfer via a wired or wireless connection. If the person has a media server installed on the personal computer or laptop the data files can be made available for remote viewing on the media server. Alternatively the data files can be transferred to a central server that is accessible via a communication network such as the Internet. That stored data is then available for remote downloading by other registered users using a compatible video player.

If the person has a mobile communication device with an embedded camera such as a camera equipped cell phone that person may be able to capture a still image or a short video clip on the device save it as a data file and transfer it through an email type transfer via a wired or wireless connection to one or more cellular numbers or email addresses. The individual can also transmit an accompanying text message or voice recording. Alternatively there are applications available that allow the mobile communication device to stream live video and or audio data directly to a central server for remote viewing as well.

In some cases the ability to webcast podcast or use similar technologies allows certain data files to be made available for remote viewing by other users or automatically delivered to another user s computer at prescribed intervals or based on the occurrence of some event.

The preceding data distribution technologies may also allow certain captured data files to be tagged with their corresponding geospatial coordinates for subsequent viewing on a GIS service. Through various available means the coordinates can be added to a digital image s exchangeable image file format EXIF an industry standard allowing the image to be displayed as an overlap on a digital map. Some services allow a digital image of any age to be manually dragged to its originating location on a digital map to create the linkage. Google s Picasa photo organizer for instance offers a tagging service in conjunction with Google Earth. The tagging can occur through multiple other means as well. The tagging can occur on the device itself for example if the device has the necessary Global Positioning System GPS chipset or if the device may be communicatively coupled to a separate GPS receiver. The tagging can also be accomplished through the use of digital mapping software applications and other means in which the timestamp of a digital image is matched to the timestamp of the geospatial coordinates captured by the separate GPS receiver.

One disadvantage with data distribution technologies such as those described above is that the data flows can be relatively slow and inefficient particularly during an emergency. With e mail type transfers it can take time to set up the e mail message add one or more addressees add the attachments and type any accompanying text. With a media server a remote viewer must know the IP address of the media server must know the file is available for viewing and must have access to a compatible media player to view it. Further the connection might not even be available if the media server is running on hardware that is using a wireless data connection due to the manner in which the commercial cellular networks assign changing IP addresses.

Uploading or streaming data files directly to a central server allows for simultaneous viewing by any number of associated users but that by itself is not conducive to real time interaction among the organization and its dispersed personnel. The data flow is still passive as data files are typically deposited in a single location for remote viewing by associated users who may be required to search identify download and execute applications for displaying or processing the data files. For example if employee A is streaming live video directly to the server employees B and C may be required to affirmatively establish independent connections to that server to view the live feed or the archived feed if employee A has ceased transmitting video at the point employees B and C establish their server connection .

One potential challenge arises when Employee A is streaming live video and wants one or more devices in a heterogeneous network with entirely separately geographical locations some with fixed computing platforms and some with handhelds and other mobile computing devices to immediately and automatically display the same live video stream. Another challenge may arise when employee A is watching a live feed from another source such as a fixed camera and wants one or more devices to display the live feed. In another example employee B may be watching a live feed being sent simultaneously i.e. in real time by employee A and employee B wants to cause the devices associated with employees C and D to display that same live feed as well without requiring action by employees C and D. In yet another example an organization or associated user of an organization s network may create a new data file or obtain an existing data file such as a still photo a map or other data file and may wish to share the file immediately with other users without requiring any prior notification to them or any independent action by them. Thus a dynamic command and control communication system may be required that allows an organization and its employees to acquire and distribute live video audio and data streams in real time and provide a platform for causing one or more devices on the organization s network to automatically display stream or process the data without specific interaction from a user of the device.

Thus a need exists for a mobile command and control system that can overcome the problems associated with the real time capture and distribution of data files using fixed or mobile computing platforms.

In accordance with one aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a method for the remote acquisition and distribution of data files using any fixed or mobile computing platform. The method may include receiving at a server live streaming video audio and or other data being transmitted by a first client device via a communication network which may be a wired network wireless network or some combination thereof. The streaming data may originate with the first client device using the device s built in video and or audio capture functionality or from another source that is communicatively coupled to the first data collective device such as separate camera or other applicable data collection source. A second client device may be selected by the first client device to receive the streaming data and a connection between the server and the selected second client device may be established via a communication network. The received streaming data may then be automatically transmitted to the second client device using the connection via the communication network. The method may also include causing the second device to display the streaming data while the first client device continues to transmit that data.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a system for collecting and distributing real time streaming video. The system may include a first client device comprising one or more of a camera for collecting video images a microphone for collecting audio data an internal or external GPS receiver for collecting location data a processor for transforming those video images and audio data into streaming data and a transmitter for transmitting the streaming data via a communication network. The system may also include a first client device that is communicatively coupled to a separate camera or other applicable data collection source. The system may also include a second client device comprising a receiver for receiving data via the wired and or wireless network and a screen for displaying the received data. The system may also include a server configured to receive the streaming data transmitted by the first client device via the wired and or wireless network select the second client device from among a plurality of client devices establish a connection with the second client device via the wired and or wireless network automatically transmit the received streaming data to the second device using the connection via the wired and or wireless network and cause the second device to display the streaming data while the first mobile device transmits the data.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a method for the remote acquisition and distribution of data files that may include allowing a third client device to independently search for select and display the streaming data from the first client device while the first client device continues to transmit that data and allowing the third client device to independently select a fourth client device from among a plurality of client devices to receive the streaming data. A connection between the server and the selected fourth client device may be established via a communication network. The received streaming data may then be automatically transmitted to the fourth client device using the connection via the wired and or wireless network. The method may also include causing the fourth client device to display the streaming data while the first client device continues to transmit that data.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a method for the remote acquisition and distribution of data files that may include allowing a first client device to remotely access any relevant data source available at the central server or any associated servers such as the archived video streams previously transmitted by a client device or to upload a data file for delivery to the central server or any associated server in each case via a communication network. The uploaded data file may originate from numerous sources such as the first client device itself or from another data collection source that is communicatively coupled to the first data collective device or from an uncoupled source such as a separate digital photo or other data file stored on a compact flash SD card or other suitable media. The method may also include allowing the first client device to independently select a second client device from among a plurality of client devices to receive any relevant data source available at the central server or any associated servers or to receive any data file uploaded by the first client device. A connection between the server and the second client device may be established via a communication network. The data file selected by the first client device may then be automatically transmitted to the second client device using the connection via the wired and or wireless network. The method may also include causing the second client device to display or otherwise process the selected data file. The method may also include allowing the second client device to independently select a third client device from among a plurality of client devices to receive the same selected data file or any other available data file.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a system for the remote collection and distribution of real time streaming video from a fixed or mobile video camera. The system may include allowing a first client device to select through the central server a specific video camera for remote viewing and to establish a connection to that camera via a communication network. The system may include allowing the first client device to display the live video stream from the selected camera. The system may also include allowing the first client device to independently select a second client device from among a plurality of client devices to display the same live feed from the selected camera and a connection may be established between the second client device and the selected camera via a communication network. The live video stream from the selected camera may then be automatically transmitted to the second client device using the connection via the wired and or wireless network. The method may also include allowing the second client device to display the streaming data whether or not the first client device continues to maintain its own connection to the selected camera. The method may also include allowing the second client device to independently select a third client device from among a plurality of client devices to display the same or different steaming video.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a method for the remote acquisition and distribution of data files that may include allowing any client device to exercise the various other command and control functionality described below in order to permit the remote acquisition and distribution of data files in real time.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a command and control system that incorporates a user interface that allows a user of the client device to establish when the client device will be available for data transfer i.e. when the device will be accessible and or controllable by one or more other devices on the network . Alternatively and or additionally the user interface may allow a client device to periodically and or continuously check in with other systems of the communication network. During check in the client device may receive any data files and or any requests for data that were provided to the device during periods where the device was unavailable. By providing an interface that allows the device to check in to the network the presently disclosed system may provide a means for organizations to maintain contact with the client device during for example an emergency although the device may be periodically unavailable or inaccessible to the server.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a mobile command and control system that enables one or more client or command center devices to track position and or location associated with one or more client device and or other incoming data sources.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a mobile command and control system that may readily interface with one or more data collection devices such as microphones audio recorders flash drives digital cameras sensors or any other suitable data collection device. The mobile command and control system may collect information either actively or passively and in a variety of communication formats such as wireless communications e.g. Bluetooth WLAN etc. hard docking e.g. flash drives discs DVD ROM etc. or wire based communications e.g. USB fire wire Ethernet etc. .

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a mobile command and control system that has been specifically designed to allow for the integration of additional third party components and systems.

Various features of the exemplary embodiments will now be described with reference to the drawing figures in which like parts are identified with the same reference characters where convenient. The following description of embodiments consistent with the invention is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is provided merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the invention.

Embodiments of systems and methods consistent with the present disclosure relate to a mobile command and control system that may comprise mobile client software that may be installed on one or more customized and or commercially available handheld devices or other mobile communication devices. The mobile client software may allow users to collect and transmit live video streams live audio streams still images location data etc. to a central server via a communication network. The software may allow certain devices designated by a network administrator to remotely access and command one or more client devices thereby allowing the designated devices to remotely control certain operational aspects associated with the client devices. For example according to one embodiment one or more client devices may be designated to among other things cause one or more other devices to display a particular video stream or image file. Alternatively and or additionally one or more client devices may be designated to activate a camera microphone location sensing technology data sensor or other input device to begin collecting data and streaming the collected data to one or more client devices and or a central server.

Embodiments of a mobile command and control system consistent with the invention may further comprise desktop client software that may be installed on one or more personal computers laptops and other fixed or mobile computing platforms and that functions substantially in the same manner as the mobile client software allowing for variations in the underlying functionality of the computing platform on which the desktop client software is installed. For example unlike many mobile communication devices the desktop client hardware may not have a built in video camera but may nonetheless be communicatively coupled to an external video camera to allow for the transfer of streaming video to the central server. Both the mobile client software and the desktop client software may be communicatively coupled to one or more data collection devices such as GPS receivers audio recorders sensors or any other suitable data collection device.

Embodiments of a mobile command and control system consistent with the invention may further comprise server software that may be installed on server hardware and that receives and processes the incoming and outgoing data traffic to from and among the mobile client devices and the desktop client devices among other things. The server software and the server hardware on which it is installed may be referred to generally as a command center server. As described further below an organization can maintain one or more command center servers depending on its specific requirements each of which may serve a different function in the system.

Embodiments of a mobile command and control system consistent with the present disclosure may further comprise a desktop application that runs on one or more personal computers laptops and other fixed or mobile computing platforms and that allows its operator to exercise command and control functionality including the ability to access the data maintained on the command center servers to view incoming and stored data files in multiple viewing formats and to transmit messages commands and other data files to mobile client devices and desktop client devices near or in real time among other things.

In the embodiment shown the system may further comprise desktop client software that runs on a plurality of desktop personal computers laptops and other fixed or mobile computer platforms desktop client devices . Desktop client device may communicate with other components of the system via a wireless network or a wired network or a combination of the two. The desktop client software functions in substantially the same manner as the mobile client software allowing for variations in the underlying functionality of the computing platform on which the desktop client software is installed. For ease of reference and unless the context specifically requires otherwise below the mobile client software and the desktop client software are referred to collectively as the client software and the mobile client devices and the desktop client devices are referred to collectively as the client devices.

In the embodiment shown the system may further comprise any or all of an organization s fixed and or mobile networked cameras and and other available fixed or mobile cameras through the networks e.g. fixed cameras that the organization wishes to incorporate into the system . A fixed camera may communicate via the wireless network or can be connected to a wired network . The wireless network is connected via a communication path to the wired network . The wired network can and often will comprise a plurality of wired networks that interface to provide access to from the client devices. For example a first wired network can be the Internet which is then connected to a local area network and or wide area network or an organization s other type of wired network. Collectively these are referred to as the wired network . Similarly wireless network may comprise a plurality of wireless networks such as interconnected wireless networks of various wireless service providers e.g. Verizon Wireless Sprint Cingular TMobile etc. .

The system may further comprise one or more command center servers . Each command center server may be comprised of one or more types of server software that is installed on one or more types of server hardware . The command center servers may transmit data to and receive data from any client device via wireless network for example where the server hardware comprises a laptop or other mobile computing platform that is capable of connecting with wireless network or via wired network or a combination of the two. As described further below an organization can maintain one or more command center servers depending on its specific requirements each of which may serve a different function in the system .

As shown the system may further comprise a desktop application that is installed on one or more personal computers laptops or other fixed or mobile computing platforms command center PCs . Command center PC communicates with command center server and can be connected via wired network or wireless network or a combination of the two. Any person who operates command center PC is referred to generally as a command center operator. In another embodiment the functions of a command center PC and a command center server may be combined in a single computer system. For example a single computing platform may have installed on it both server software and the desktop application . In another embodiment a variation of the desktop application may be installed separately on a mobile client device or a desktop client device .

The mobile client device shown further comprises radio frequency RF transmitting receiving circuitry for wireless communication such as RF circuitry . As one of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate various types of RF technologies may be used and mobile client device may include separate RF circuitry to support one or more of them. For example mobile client device may comprise RF circuitry to support a cellular wireless standard and RF circuitry to support the Bluetooth short range wireless connectivity standard the details of which are known in the art and omitted in the interest of brevity.

In addition mobile client device may be capable of supporting additional RF technologies through a communicative coupling with other hardware that has RF circuitry embedded in it such as RF external adapter . For example there are commercially available RF external adapters available to support the Wi Fi wireless standard. This type of RF external adapter may attach to the mobile client device in different ways such as through memory slot or input output port or through a Bluetooth wireless connection if both the mobile device and the RF external adapter support that standard.

As shown mobile client device can have an internal GPS receiver or may be communicatively coupled to an external GPS receiver such as through the memory slot the input output port or through a Bluetooth wireless connection if both the mobile device and the external GPS receiver support that standard. In either case the GPS receiver may be used to triangulate longitude latitude and other location data by receiving radio wave signals from GPS satellites. Alternatively a location may be determined by a cellular signal broadcast from the mobile device to triangulate the position of the mobile client device using available cellular emergency location technology e.g. federal E911 program etc. . The use of location data is discussed in greater detail below.

As shown mobile client device memory may contain the device s operating system which interacts with mobile client software . The mobile client software may comprise any number of components depending on the nature of the data being transmitted within the system . For example the mobile client software may comprise eight separate major functions each of which is shown on the exemplary schematic block diagram of the mobile client software appearing on and each of which may have any number of subfunctions associated with it. As shown in 

As shown on the preceding the mobile client device operating system may also contain a virtual private network VPN and or other encryption technology to encrypt the incoming and outgoing data traffic between the mobile client device and an organization s data network. An organization may install on the mobile client device its own preferred encryption technology such as a commercially available Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS 140 2 compliant encryption technology.

It is contemplated that operating system associated with mobile client device may contain additional and or different programs than those listed above such as one or more software applications . It is further contemplated that components and or software described in association with operating system are exemplary only and not intended to be limiting.

As noted earlier the desktop client software may function in substantially the same manner as the mobile client software . For example as with a mobile client device a desktop client device can have an internal GPS receiver or may be communicatively coupled to an external GPS receiver such as through a USB serial connection or through a Bluetooth wireless connection. Further the desktop client device may also comprise any number of components depending on the nature of the data being transmitted within the system and may at minimum comprise the software applications previously shown on the exemplary schematic block diagram of the mobile client software appearing on .

As with a mobile client device it is contemplated that operating system associated with a desktop client device may contain additional and or different programs than those listed above such as one or more software applications. It is further contemplated that components and or software described in association with operating system are exemplary only and not intended to be limiting.

In one embodiment the Web server may include the Microsoft Internet Information Services Web Server and the database application may include the Microsoft SQL Server. However it is contemplated that additional and or different applications may be included with server operating system Web server and or database application respectively. It is further contemplated that components and or software described in association with operating system are exemplary only and not intended to be limiting.

As noted earlier live imagery may be transmitted by a mobile client device a desktop client device or other sources such as a fixed camera to the command center server in any compatible format such as the JPEG format. In a preferred embodiment a command center server may also include the capability to transcode an incompatible format into a compatible format for incorporation within the system . According to one embodiment imagery may be transmitted on a frame by frame basis for example as streaming video data. The image service may receive and process each image frame. As shown in the image service may include one or more subcomponents such as a reception service a time encoding service an image buffer a geocoding service an archiving service and a data service .

An exemplary reception service may receive each incoming image frame and transcode it into any image file format such as the Exchangeable Image File Format EXIF . Image format files including the applicable file format are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are not described further in the interest of brevity. The reception service may be configured to handle multiple simultaneous incoming connections.

In one embodiment each image frame may then be routed to the time encoding service which writes date and time information associated with each frame to the image file format.

Each image frame may then be routed to and stored in an exemplary image buffer . The image buffer may be configured to store one or more image frames. As the image buffer fills up each image frame may be routed on a first in first out basis to an exemplary geocoding service . The image buffering process is also well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and is not described further in the interest of brevity.

Image frames stored in the image buffer may be retrieved for live viewing by command center PC by any mobile client device by any desktop client device or by other sources. These images may be transferred automatically periodically and or in response to a request from the applicable viewing source. For example the desktop application in the case of command center PC or the watch function in the case of a client device may retrieve image frames stored in the image buffer . In any case the requested image frames may be formatted and transmitted by the image buffer as an M JPEG video stream or any other suitable format. In addition the image frames may also be viewed by various other sources such as by a third party application capable of receiving a formatted video stream or by a digital video recorder or network video recorder or by a Web browser or third party media player such as the Windows Media Player capable of viewing formatted video streams. The image buffer may be configured to handle multiple simultaneous outgoing connections.

Once the geocoding service receives the time encoded image frame from the image buffer it may retrieve from the last known table in the database application the last known location data for the applicable client device or other source that originated the image frame. As described in greater detail below the available location data may have been received in different ways by the command center server and may accordingly be processed by the geocoding service in different ways.

In one embodiment the geocoding service may first determine whether the date and time of the image match the date and time of the available location data or alternatively if the respective dates and times are within a designated time interval of each other and if so the geocoding service may reformat the image frame incorporate that location data into the applicable image file format and route the image frame to the frames database in the database application for archiving and subsequent retrieval. If however the available location data falls outside the designated time interval the image frame may instead be routed to the frames database without further action thereby potentially reducing the risk that dated location data may inadvertently be incorporated into the wrong image frame.

Alternatively the client device may have transmitted the image frames and the corresponding location data together to the command center server using different potential methods as described further below in which case the geocoding service may route those images to the frames database without further action.

As shown in an exemplary archiving service may process one or more requests to view archived image frames by retrieving them from the frames database and reformatting them as an M JPEG video stream or other suitable format. As with live video frames in the image buffer the archived image frames may also be viewed by a command center PC a client device or by various other sources such as by a third party application capable of receiving a formatted video stream or by a digital video recorder or network video recorder or by a Web browser or third party media player such as the Windows Media Player capable of viewing formatted video streams. The archiving service may be configured to handle multiple simultaneous outgoing connections.

An exemplary data service may process one or more requests to view archived image frames in their original format together with any associated information contained in the frames database for those archived image frames.

Database application may maintain any number of databases to store applicable data. For example the types of databases that can be used in the system may include 

According to one exemplary embodiment the types of data that can be maintained in the frames database of the database application may include for example 

As shown on the preceding the messaging and routing service may include one or more components such as a check in service a message delivery service and a roving camera service . According to an exemplary embodiment and as described further below the check in service may exchange data with any one or more client devices at designated time intervals the message delivery service may receive messages commands and other data from command center PC or any other client device and then route them to the message queue to await the next check in service and the roving camera service may communicate information about the client devices when they stream live video and other data files to command center server .

Further in one embodiment the messaging and routing service may be implemented as a SOAP based Web service. SOAP or Simple Object Access Protocol is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and is not described further in the interest of brevity.

As shown in the cataloging service may include a data repository such as an XML Extensible Markup Language or other suitable data file camera catalog . An exemplary camera catalog may maintain an entry for each fixed camera selected by an organization. XML is a technology well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and is not described further in the interest of brevity. According to one exemplary embodiment an organization may include separate entries in camera catalog for each fixed camera including one or more of its networked cameras and other cameras available to it.

One or more exemplary types of data may be maintained in camera catalog and incorporated into the system . For example 

Referring again to according to one exemplary embodiment the server software may be configured to scale readily with the number of client devices. The server hardware itself may support a specified number of client devices streaming live imagery and other data e.g. location data audio data etc. to and from any command center server at substantially the same time. The number can vary depending on the capacity of the particular server hardware and the available network throughput. As one of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate those are variable limitations based on the hardware and network constraints and not on the system and method according to exemplary embodiments of the invention.

The server software may be configured to accommodate one or more additional client devices. First different and or additional server hardware may be communicatively coupled to command center server in which case data stored on those pieces of hardware may become an integrated pool of information. For example command center server A illustrates two or more pieces of server hardware communicatively coupled to one other.

Second an organization may allocate client devices to geographically dispersed command center servers A B. For example in command center server B is shown in a separate physical location from command center server A. As shown command center server B may be configured with a single piece of server hardware or in an alternate embodiment command center server B can be configured with additional pieces of server hardware as well to accommodate a higher data load at that physical location.

If an organization opts for geographically dispersed command center servers whether each geographic location is configured with a single piece of server hardware or multiple interconnected pieces of server hardware the data stored at each separate location may include a separate library that can be accessed remotely by any command center operator. In addition the desktop application may include a drop down menu or other method allowing a command center operator to remotely access any of the organization s command center servers . Further the separate command center servers can be configured to exchange data among them according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Further and as noted earlier the system may comprise one or more additional command center servers such as proxy servers data gateways and other intervening servers to facilitate the flow of data files to from and among client devices within the system .

As shown on the command center PC can further comprise one or more computer monitors or any other video display system integrated into the system . In the case of one or more computer monitors for example an exemplary control monitor may display the desktop application described further below while one or more additional computer monitors viewing monitors may display data collected through the system in various formats such as viewing image streams from the fixed cameras or from any client device using one or more integrated GIS viewing applications . In another embodiment an organization may use a single display monitor as in the case of a laptop in which case the command center operator may simply toggle between screens or display them simultaneously in separate windows etc.

The command center PC may also include any hardware and software components typically found in a computer the details of which are omitted in the interest of brevity. The desktop application will be discussed in greater detail below.

In one embodiment with respect to the system may include among other potential security protocols various access controls which may be configured to establish permissions associated with one or more users and or client devices associated with the system. For example these access controls may regulate when and under what circumstances any party to the system may exercise command and control functionality including for example the ability to establish whether and under what circumstances a client device may access a particular fixed camera or other client device or when one client device may remotely cause a second client device to take a particular action or to cease taking a particular action. It is further contemplated that certain authentication mechanisms e.g. password prompts etc. may be provided to prevent unauthorized access to or use of the system .

As noted earlier the client software may comprise one or more major functions such as the configuration function the history function the panic function the transmit function the watch function the archive function the upload function and the command function which interact with and command the capabilities of the client device. Depending on the operating system of the client device each major function may be a separate software application or they may be combined into a single application or some other variation.

Once the client software has been installed on the client device each major function and or any associated subfunction may be represented by a distinctive icon or other indicator in the client device menu system. Additionally and or alternatively any major function and any associated subfunction may include various short cut methods allowing it to be launched or allowing specific functionality to be exercised after it has been launched such as by pressing a designated hardware button or combination of buttons on the client device or by using a customized hot key or combination of hot keys on the client device keyboard or other user interface. Those skilled in the art will recognize that particular short cut methods available to initiate a function or subfunction may vary depending on the specific client device. Set forth below for illustrative purposes are examples of some of the types of major functions and associated subfunctions that may be incorporated into the client software. As noted earlier and according to one embodiment the client software is designed to function in substantially the same manner on all client devices but the precise functionality may vary depending on the underlying functionality of the computing platform on which the client software is running. For example as described further below one aspect of the system allows a command center PC or a client device to remotely command a second client device causing the second client device to display a live image stream from a fixed camera or other source. Those skilled in the art will recognize that viewing options for a mobile client device such as for example a commercially available smartphone may be substantially more limiting than those for a desktop client device.

The configuration function may comprise any number of subfunctions relating to the manner in which the client software is configured to run on the client device and to communicate with the command center server and the other components of the system . According to one exemplary embodiment the configuration function may for example include a status subfunction a server subfunction an ID subfunction and a location subfunction.

In one embodiment the status subfunction in the configuration function may allow the client device to operate in one or more different communication modes such as in an on duty mode and or an off duty mode. According to an exemplary embodiment the on duty mode may be configured to ensure that the client device is in communication with the command center server check in service via the applicable wireless network or wired network or a combination of the two in order to exchange available data and off duty mode may be configured to suspend communications between the client device and the command center server . In one embodiment a user may switch between on duty mode and off duty mode by selecting a single command available on the client device.

In an alternate embodiment if a user launches a different function on the client device at a time when the client device is in off duty mode such as if the user launches the transmit function or the panic function the configuration function may be configured so that the client device may also automatically establish a connection to the check in service and go into on duty mode without additional user input.

As explained for one embodiment below with respect to the routing of messages commands and other data within the system while in on duty mode the client device and the check in service may be configured to exchange available data at a designated time interval measured in seconds minutes or longer. By way of example the on duty mode can be configured to exchange available data with the check in service every 15 seconds. With each exchange the check in service may report a connection time to a designated entry in both the last known table and the position log according to one embodiment.

As noted earlier each client device may be assigned to a command center server . In one embodiment the servers subfunction in the configuration function may allow the user to assign the client device to a particular command center server or additionally and or alternatively may allow the command center server to remotely cause the client device to be assigned to a particular command center server . If for example the organization is using geographically dispersed command center servers the organization may assign client devices to different command center servers at different times for different purposes.

According to one embodiment three separate server assignments may be specified according to an exemplary embodiment 

A client device may have for illustrative purposes been assigned to the same command center server for all purposes. While that may well be a typical situation there may be circumstances where the client device is temporarily connected to a different command center server to perform a specific task. For example a user normally assigned to a command center server in Miami may be asked to transmit particular live imagery directly to a different command center server located in Los Angeles. In that example the camera settings assignment may need to be changed accordingly to reflect the appropriate server address field and port field according to an embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment the ID subfunction in the configuration function may display the unique identification name number or other applicable identifier device ID which has been selected by the organization to track that client device in the system .

As noted earlier a client device may have an internal GPS receiver an external GPS receiver or other available location technology to obtain location data. In one embodiment the location subfunction in the configuration function may allow the user to engage a location technology or to choose from a plurality of available location technologies in order to collect the outputted location data associated with the client device and transmit the data to one or more devices associated with the system .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that location data may be outputted in different formats depending on the specific location technology. For example the NMEA National Marine Electronics Association format outputs GPS data in strings of data referred to as sentences which may contain a plurality of data including information about each satellite that is being used to triangulate a device s position. In the system different methods may be used to capture and transmit outputted location data from the location technology to the command center server according to an embodiment of the invention.

In one embodiment the location subfunction may capture the outputted location data without change store the data temporarily in the client device memory and transmit the data to the command center server with the next connection to the check in service . As described further below the check in service may route the location data to the last known table and the position log . As noted earlier there may be separate and identical entries in the last known table and the position log to store the incoming location data based on the device ID of the transmitting client device and the nature of the specific location data. For example the device ID of a client device may be stored in a device ID entry latitude data may be stored in a latitude entry longitude data may be stored in a longitude entry altitude data may be stored in an altitude entry etc.

In another embodiment the location subfunction may parse the location data to extract designated coordinates such as longitude latitude altitude heading etc. store the parsed data in the client device memory and then transmit the parsed data to the command center server with the next connection to the check in service .

Additionally and or alternatively the outputted location data whether parsed or without change may be transmitted to the command center server through another function such as the transmit function . For example as described further below if a client device is transmitting video data to the image service the available location data may be transmitted directly to the image service as well by different means such as by sending the location data as a separate stream or by first embedding the location data into the image frames on the client device and then sending the integrated video and location data to the image service .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that other types of location data alternatively and or in addition to GPS data may be used in system . For example in another embodiment the command center server is designed to allow integration with any available location based service offered by the commercial wireless carriers through the federally mandated E911 initiative all such data being referred to generally as the E911 data as described further below.

As shown in method may begin with step in which the user seeks to engage a location technology on the client device. In step method may determine whether the client device has an internal GPS receiver or a physically attached external GPS receiver in either case an attached GPS receiver .

If the client device has an attached GPS receiver yes path from step the user may power on the attached GPS receiver using any method otherwise permitted by the attached GPS receiver Step . As described earlier the user may engage the location subfunction to commence retrieving GPS data from the GPS receiver Step the location subfunction may receive and if so configured parse the incoming GPS data Step and the relevant GPS data may be stored temporarily on the client device Step . Additionally or alternatively the relevant GPS data may be streamed to the image service through the transmit function .

If the client device does not have an attached GPS receiver no path from step method may determine whether any other type of external GPS receiver or other available location technology is available such as for example a Bluetooth enabled GPS receiver connected via a wireless network to the client device Step . If a location technology is available yes path from step the user may power on the location technology using any method permitted by that technology Step . The user may engage the location subfunction to command the device to begin feeding the GPS data in the manner set forth above Step the location subfunction may receive and if engaged parse the incoming GPS data Step and the relevant GPS data may be stored temporarily on the client device Step .

As shown on method determines in Step whether the user wishes to continue to retrieve GPS data. In some situations for example the user may have decided to turn off an attached GPS receiver or there may be an error condition such as a hardware or software failure on the GPS receiver or a loss of connectivity interrupting the connection. If the user wishes to continue Step Yes method will wait a designated interval before the location sub function proceeds to retrieve incoming GPS data Step as described earlier . If the user does not wish to continue Step No the retrieval of GPS data will end until the user next engages the location subfunction.

As further shown on method determines in step whether a successful connection has occurred between the client device and the command center server . If a successful connection has occurred Step yes method will determine in step whether there is any stored GPS data. If there is stored GPS data Step yes the GPS data may be transmitted in step from the client device to the command center server . If there is no stored GPS data Step no method may wait until the next successful connection to the command center server to again determine whether there is any stored GPS data.

If a successful connection has not occurred between the client device and the command center server the GPS data may remain stored on the client device memory until the next successful connection to the command center server Step .

As shown on in step the GPS data may be received by the command center server . In step the command center server may determine whether the GPS data is valid. The validity determination in step may encompass such criteria as the age of the data fix quality and horizontal dilution among others.

If the GPS data is valid yes path from step the command center server may in step route the GPS data to the last known table and the position log as described above. If the GPS data is not valid no path from step the method may proceed to step .

In step method may determine whether location data from another source such as E911 data may be available for the client device. If there is no location data available from another source no path from step method may in step set the last known position values to Empty indicating that no known position is currently available and route that information to the last known table and the position log . If there is location data available yes path from step method may proceed in step to retrieve the available location data either through the client device or directly from the wireless carrier.

In step method may determine whether the other location data is valid. As noted earlier in the case of step the validity determination in step may encompass such criteria as the age of the data fix quality and horizontal dilution among others. If the other location data is valid yes path from step that information may be routed to the last known table and the position log . If the other location data is not valid no path from step method may in step set the last known position values to Empty indicating that no known position is currently available and route that information to the last known table and the position log step .

As noted earlier in one embodiment a user may access a history function on the client device which may maintain along with other information an updated record of each instance in which the client device has received a message command or other data communication from command center server together with associated information such as the date and time that the communication was first sent to the client device and the identity of the sender.

For example the history function may show that a client device previously received a command from the command center PC or another client device on Nov. 30 2006 at 11 18 pm to cause a specific image file to be displayed automatically on the client device display screen. In one embodiment if the user highlights that specific action the original image file may be retrieved from the command center server or if applicable an updated version of that image file since it was first distributed to the client device and again displayed on the client device.

In one embodiment the user may clear all or part of the historical record at any point by accessing a drop down menu or other selection method incorporated into the history function .

In one embodiment the panic function may allow a user to initiate a panic mode causing the client device to send an immediate alert silent or otherwise to the command center server and automatically initiate the transmit function on the client device if available. The client device display screen may also display a panic message confirming to the user that the panic function has been launched.

In one embodiment a user may also use multiple methods to cancel the panic mode including for example by exiting the transmit function at any point if it is then engaged. In one embodiment command center PC may also terminate panic function remotely and automatically by sending a designated command to the client device.

A transmit function may allow a user to capture and transmit live video from the client device to the command center server image service in many different ways. In one embodiment live audio may be transmitted with or instead of the live video. For example a user may first record and transmit an explanatory audio message e.g. I m about to send you video of . . . and then transmit the live video stream or alternatively the audio and video may be transmitted contemporaneously in one embodiment.

In another embodiment a user may assign a priority tag to certain image frames as the video stream is being sent to the command center server in a manner that does not interrupt the data transmission. By way of illustration a user may wish to tag a particular two minutes of a 30 minute transmission by selecting a single key or combination of keys or other available methods to commence the priority tagging and then selecting the same or different keys to terminate the tagging. As described further below the user may then in one embodiment subsequently search for and retrieve those frames based on the priority tagging.

In yet another embodiment location information and other applicable data such as sensor data e.g. temperature radiation levels etc. may also be transmitted with or without live video and or audio data. Additionally and or alternatively and as noted earlier such data may also be captured and transmitted from the client device to the command center server .

In another embodiment system may employ a similar method to capture and transmit live audio sensor data and other available data files from the client device. One of ordinary skill will recognize that the specific steps involved will vary depending on the nature of the data files being transferred. For example the transfer of audio or sensor data in addition to or in lieu of live video images may or may not require its own compression technology and other variations depending on the size and characteristics of the data files involved. Thus the preceding discussion of paths is intended to provide illustrative examples of the steps that may be undertaken by data flow according to one embodiment of the present invention.

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the specific process of capturing and transmitting live video images from the client device may vary depending on the specific functionality of the client device including variables such as the nature of the operating system installed on the device the available application programming interface API and whether the camera is embedded in the device or communicatively coupled with it. The following discussion is intended to provide an illustrative example of the type of steps that may be taken to capture and transmit live imagery from the client device. For illustrative purposes it is assumed that the client device has an embedded camera but a substantially similar method may be employed to the extent the camera is communicatively coupled to the client device according to an embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment the client device has embedded in it an image management library for example as installed by the hardware manufacturer. The library has the ability to manipulate the raw image data being collected by the sensors of the client device s embedded camera in multiple ways including the ability to capture raw image data format it as image frames and save the frames to a photo library maintained on the client device. Additional information about image management libraries is omitted for reasons of brevity as those of ordinary skill in the art of the present invention understand their operations.

In a further embodiment the transmit function may use the available image management library API to programmatically manipulate the raw image data collected by a client device and stream it directly to the reception service of a command center server . As described further below while the transmit function is engaged it may retrieve raw image data using the device API format it in a JPEG or other suitable format and compress it for transmission to the command center server . In one embodiment this may occur approximately every 1 10 second. At the same time if desired the user may view on the client device display screen the live imagery as it is being transmitted.

In another embodiment the transmit function may not import the image compression function from the image management library if a more efficient third party compression technology is available. This may be desirable to optimize the speed at which individual image frames are transmitted to command center server . No additional information is provided about third party compression applications that may be integrated into the transmit function as compression processes are well understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

In another embodiment each image frame may be watermarked for authentication purposes. Digital watermarks are generally used for one or more purposes such as for example data monitoring copyright protection and data authentication. Digital watermarking can be either visible or invisible to the viewer. A visible watermark is primarily designed to display a copyright notice telling the viewer who owns the image rights. An invisible watermark can also be used to assert a copyright but it is designed to catch those persons who may try to infringe on the copyright by using the image without the owner s permission. Watermarks can also be used to authenticate the integrity of an image. When used for this purpose a software program is used to calculate a unique number using the image data. To establish specific ownership of the image an encryption key assigned to the owner of the image can be used to encrypt the unique number generated from the image. The encrypted number is then inserted by various methods into the image itself. If ownership is not important then only the unencrypted value is used. Though the actual techniques used are complex and vary from one manufacturer to another the process of inserting this value into the image alters the image data.

In one embodiment while the transit function is transmitting live video images the user may adjust the image quality such as through the use of a slide control that for example may be accessed through a drop down menu or other selection method incorporated into the transmit function .

The use of a slide control or other alternative method may allow the user to make a tradeoff or to be directed by a command center operator to make a tradeoff within a certain pre determined range between image quality and the speed at which imagery is transmitted to command center server . For example the user may use the applicable image quality control to change the image resolution or the compression level. In another embodiment of the present invention a command center operator or another client device may remotely alter the transmitted image quality on the transmitting client device by sending the appropriate command to the transmitting client device.

According to one embodiment the watch function may operate on the client device in a minimum of two modes a search mode and a viewing mode.

According to one embodiment a client device display screen may be configured to display a search mode when the watch function is launched on the client device. The search mode may include four subfunctions according to one embodiment a favorites subfunction a browse subfunction a find subfunction and a roving subfunction.

In one embodiment a favorites subfunction may allow the user to use different methods to bookmark on the client device any fixed camera or other client device for subsequent selection and live viewing. In one embodiment for example a user may select a command shown on the display screen while the watch function is engaged. Once the user has selected a particular camera for bookmarking it may then appear automatically on the list of bookmarked cameras appearing in the favorites subfunction with or without a separate notification alerting the user as to whether that bookmarked camera is then streaming live imagery according to one embodiment. The user may then select any bookmarked camera for immediate live viewing if then available through the watch function viewing mode described further below.

In one embodiment a browse subfunction in the watch function may allow the user to remotely search for fixed cameras available in the catalog service as shown on the preceding based on different criteria such as the camera s geographical location. The browse subfunction may include various search methods such as for example a hierarchical ordering of the data in a tree format or through the use of pull down lists or other applicable user prompts. According to one embodiment each time the watch function is launched on the client device the browse subfunction may establish an available connection to the cataloging service in order to search its camera catalog to populate the applicable user prompts.

In other embodiments the user may select the applicable search criteria in order to produce a resulting list of fixed cameras available for viewing.

As noted earlier if an organization has geographically dispersed command center servers and each corresponding cataloging service maintains a different camera catalog such as each regional office maintaining a database of its regional fixed cameras only then in one embodiment the user may remotely access the different cataloging services by changing a viewer settings assignment on the client device to the relevant command center server or by having the command center server remotely change the viewing settings assignment .

In one embodiment a find subfunction in the watch function may allow the user to remotely search for fixed cameras available in the catalog service by using a simple text search. Each time the find subfunction is accessed the user may be directed on the client device display screen to a query field according to one embodiment. To initiate a search the user may type one or more letters numbers or other characters collectively query terms in the query field to initiate the search or simply select a separate option to poll all of the cameras in the catalog service . The find subfunction may then establish an available connection to the cataloging service which may search its camera catalog to identify a list of available fixed cameras that have the query terms in any of their respective camera catalog fields. A user may then select any available fixed camera and display the live image stream from that camera on the client device display screen.

In one embodiment a roving subfunction in the watch function may allow the user to remotely search for and view live video images while they are being simultaneously transmitted by another client device to a command center server .

As illustrated by the exemplary data flow diagram shown on when the roving tab has been selected the roving subfunction may in path establish an available connection to the roving camera service of the messaging and routing service and request a list of available client devices. In response the roving cameras service may first determine what other client devices are then connected to the same messaging and routing service . In path the roving camera service may then communicate with the last known table in the database application to determine which of those client devices are then transmitting live video. Based on the determination the roving camera service may then in path report the resulting information back to the roving function. The resulting list of client devices may appear on the client device display screen. The user may then select any resulting client device to display the live video stream from that device.

As with the desktop application the watch function and other components of the client software may incorporate various additional filtering and sorting options as well including for example the ability to further refine search results according to one embodiment.

As noted earlier the watch function viewing mode may display any live imagery selected by the user through the watch function search mode that may be streaming by a fixed camera or by another client device. In one embodiment the method for displaying the live imagery on the display screen varies depending on whether the user has selected a fixed camera or another client device. As noted earlier the manner in which the live imagery is displayed on the client device may also vary depending on the underlying functionality of the client device among other potential variables.

In one embodiment if the user has selected a fixed camera during the search mode the watch function may retrieve from the cataloging service the IP network information needed to access the fixed camera directly from the client device. As noted earlier that information may include the URI identified in one or more camera catalog fields. With the IP network information the watch function may assemble the unique URI of the fixed camera and cause the client device display screen to commence displaying the live image stream from that fixed camera . In an alternative embodiment an intervening command center server may be used in the system to act as a proxy server between the fixed cameras and the client devices. In that case the intervening server may establish the direct connection to the fixed camera and the watch function may use the unique URI of the intervening server to cause the client device to display the live image stream from that fixed camera . As noted earlier the use of a proxy server may permit multiple simultaneous requests by client devices to access one or more fixed cameras that may otherwise be limited in the number of direct simultaneous connections they will support.

Once the watch function has established a direct or indirect connection to the fixed camera a user may use various methods to exit the watch function viewing mode and return to the watch function search mode such as for example by selecting a menu option on the client device display screen.

Similarly if the user has selected a client device during the search mode the watch function may establish a direct IP connection to the image buffer on the command center server that is temporarily storing the live image stream transmitted by that client device and thereby commence displaying that live image stream on the display screen. According to one embodiment the watch function may compute the IP address of the appropriate image buffer based on the device ID of the transmitting client device and on the IP address of the command center server which is receiving the live image stream that is the IP address shown in the server address field in the camera settings assignment according to one embodiment .

As noted earlier an organization may include in camera catalog information on how to control remotely the available PTZ movements for a fixed camera . According to an exemplary embodiment when the watch function is in view mode it may request PTZ information from the cataloging service and store it temporarily on the client device memory. If there is available information the letters PTZ may appear on the display screen and the user may be able to remotely control the available PTZ movements from the client device. By way of example if the information is available in camera catalog the user may be able to remotely cause the fixed camera to move to the extent otherwise permitted by the fixed camera .

In one embodiment the client software may incorporate a separate image buffer which may temporarily store on the client device any live image stream displayed on the client device from a fixed camera another client device or another source and allow the user to exercise various playback and distribution functions. According to one embodiment this is substantially the same type of functionality available to a command center operator running a command center PC and the process for doing so is discussed in greater detail below.

In one embodiment the archive function may allow a user to remotely search for and view archived imagery previously captured by the system . As described in greater detail below the client device may establish a connection to the archiving service shown on the preceding to process requests to view the archived images.

In one embodiment the upload function may allow a user to remotely upload any image file .jpg .bmp .gif etc or other data file from the client device to the command center server for storage and immediate or subsequent redistribution within the system . The uploaded data file may originate from numerous sources including for example the client device itself hard drive flash drive disc DVD ROM etc. or from another data collection source that is communicatively coupled to the client device or from an uncoupled source such as a separate digital photo or other data file stored on a compact flash SD card or other media.

The uploaded file may be processed in different ways in the system depending on its characteristics. An image file for example may be processed by the image service and stored in the frames database in substantially the same manner as a live video stream from a client device. Other data files such as sensor data may be received processed and stored differently by the command center server based on their specific characteristics.

In one embodiment the command function may allow the user to exercise on the client device some all or none of the command and control functionality that a command center operator may exercise from the command center PC with respect to the creation and communication of data files within the system . In one embodiment this functionality may be accomplished through the command center server messaging and routing function described further below.

As noted earlier embodiments of the desktop application may be configured to work with a single viewing monitor as on a laptop for example or in a multi monitor setup or other video display system that may for example have a single control monitor and one or more viewing monitors as shown on the preceding or other suitable viewing displays. For illustrative purposes the following discussion describes how one embodiment of the desktop application may work with one control monitor and one viewing monitor placed side by side. In embodiments consistent with the invention the desktop application can be loaded onto the command center PC or be a Web based application that is accessed by the command center PC through its Web browser. Alternatively and or additionally the desktop application may include a stand alone application suitable for downloading and use on a client device or other available computing platform.

According to one embodiment when the desktop application is opened on the command center PC a management console may appear on the control monitor and one or more GIS viewing applications may be opened also for viewing on the viewing monitor . The mapping data available through one GIS viewing application may be integrated into the viewing display of one or more different GIS viewing applications . Those skilled in the art will recognize that there are many different GIS viewing applications available each of which may include its own customized format and functions. The desktop application may be designed to work with any GIS viewing application according to its application programming interface.

In one embodiment each time the desktop application is launched the management console may automatically poll the cataloging service and present a list of all the available fixed cameras in various formats.

In one embodiment once the list of available cameras is displayed on the management console the command center operator may use various methods to select any one or more of the listed cameras including for example by clicking on a listed camera or by selecting one or more available menu options. Once a camera is selected the desktop application may retrieve from the command center PC memory the available URI for the selected fixed camera as the watch function may do so when viewing a fixed camera from a client device as discussed earlier . The desktop application may then open a direct IP connection to that fixed camera and open a viewing window on the viewing monitor to display the live image stream from that camera.

As described in greater detail below and according to one exemplary embodiment each viewing window may have its own dedicated image buffer separate from the image buffer maintained in the command center server which temporarily records the live image stream and may allow the command center operator to exercise various playback controls including the ability to pause rewind and fast forward through the image stream and to distribute recorded images within and outside an organization via system .

In one embodiment the command center operator may have additional viewing options if camera catalog includes location data for a selected fixed camera . If there is no available data a GIS viewing application may not become engaged while the viewing window is open on the viewing monitor . If there is available location data the management console may be configured to allow that location data to be visualized on the viewing monitor . Among other potential visualization options 

In addition as described further below and according to an embodiment of the present invention the command center operator may have additional options to analyze and distribute the live imagery originating from any fixed camera including for example the ability to connect to and cause one or more client devices to display the live imagery. Alternatively and or additionally the command center may be configured to capture and distribute to any client device any individual image frame or collection of image frames shown on the viewing window.

The command center operator has other viewing options as well when displaying a live image stream from a fixed camera according to an exemplary embodiment. For example a viewing window may have variable transparency for enhanced viewing of and overlaying with the underlying fixed imagery.

For example the viewing window may employ a control such as a slide control that causes the viewing window to be rendered transparent in degrees as the control is moved one way and to be returned to its original transparency including opaque as the slide control is moved another way. When the streamed live images are displayed with some degree of transparency the underlying fixed image may be seen beneath the live streamed images.

As with the client devices mentioned earlier the command center operator may remotely access any available PTZ controls for a fixed camera to the extent that the relevant information is contained in camera catalog . The viewing window may employ a control such as a menu item buttons or other prompts to display the available PTZ options and allow the command center operator to exercise them.

In one embodiment each time the desktop application is launched the management console may automatically poll the command center server and present a list of all the client devices that have previously registered with the system .

The available information for each client device may be displayed on the management console in various ways such as for example by displaying each client device as a separate row in a user table. The user table is an exemplary interface that may allow a command center operator to interact with each client device.

The user table may also include one or more configurable columns displaying the status of each client device in the system such as for example a transmit column a watch column a panic column a tracking column and one or more types of check in status columns. As described further below the information contained in the user table for each client device may be derived primarily from the last known table in accordance with one embodiment. In addition the management console may be configured to interface with the last known table at designated time intervals in order to update the information contained in the user table.

The watch column may indicate whether the watch function view mode is engaged on a client device. In one embodiment the command center operator may then select that client device to determine specifically what fixed camera or other client device is originating the image stream being viewed through the watch function .

The panic column may indicate whether the panic function view mode is engaged on the client device. As noted earlier launching the panic function may cause the client device to execute or perform the transmit function which may in turn provide an indication on the user table.

The location column may indicate whether the client device is transmitting location data to the command center server which as noted earlier may be accomplished through the location subfunction in the configuration function in one embodiment .

The tracking column may allow the command center operator to select one or more client devices to be tracked on one or more GIS viewing applications whenever those devices are transmitting their location data. For example an operator may select two client devices for tracking that have not communicated with the check in service for the last 24 hours. In one embodiment as soon as either or both of the client devices establish a connection to the check in service and begin transmitting their respective location data the applicable GIS viewing application may automatically orient itself to show the device location s .

The check in status columns may provide various status reports about a particular client device such as whether the client device is then communicating with the check in service or the period of time that has elapsed since the device last communicated with the check in service and so on.

In an exemplary embodiment the management console may also include various filtering and sorting options including for example the ability to filter by status or keyword to sort by clicking on a column header or to group by a particular field.

In addition those skilled in the art will recognize that any number of additional or different methods and user interfaces can be incorporated into the management console to organize and highlight particular information to a command center operator. By way of example various indicators such as pop up windows audio prompts different color schemes etc. may be incorporated into the management console to for example alert the console operator that a particular client device has undertaken a particular action e.g. provide a notification as soon as X client device engages its transmit function or has failed to undertake a particular action etc. e.g. provide a notification if X client device has not communicated with the check in service within a designated period of time .

When the transmit function is engaged on one or more client devices the command center operator may employ various methods to view the live image streams. In one embodiment the command center operator may manually select the particular client device or devices for immediate viewing or the management console may be configured so that viewing monitor automatically displays the live video streams as soon as the transmit function is engaged.

As described further below in an exemplary embodiment the desktop application may access the live image stream as it is being transmitted from the client device and stored temporarily in the image buffer as shown on the preceding on the command center server open a viewing window on the viewing monitor and display the live image stream in the viewing window. As noted earlier in the case of a live image stream from a fixed camera and as described in greater detail below a separate image buffer embedded in the viewing window may record the live image stream from the client device and allow the command center operator to exercise various playback and distribution functions according to an embodiment of the present invention.

In addition if the client device is also transmitting location data the command center operator may cause the desktop application to retrieve the coordinates from the last known table and display those coordinates on the integrated GIS viewing application s . In addition the desktop application may cause the GIS viewing application s to reorient themselves as those coordinates are updated in the last known table during each subsequent communication between the client device and the command center server . Thus if a client device is streaming live imagery from a moving car for example the viewing monitor may show the underlying fixed imagery moving in sync with the vehicle s ongoing route with an icon showing the location of the client device as the location changes. As described further below and in one exemplary embodiment the command center operator may also retrieve an archived image stream and display on the viewing monitor how the client device s physical position changed during the course of capturing and transmitting that archived image stream.

Further if there is available location data for two or more client devices the desktop application may cause the GIS viewing application s to display a separate location icon representing each selected client device. Based on the information provided to it by the desktop application the GIS viewing application s may compute and zoom to an altitude sufficient to display an area that includes all the location icons representing the selected client devices on the viewing monitor . The GIS viewing application display may be reoriented by the desktop application as the available location data for those client devices is updated in the last known table .

In one embodiment the system allows a command center operator or any client device to send messages commands and other data files all such communications being referred to generally as data communications to and among client devices. As described further below any number of data communications may be issued with respect to among other things the delivery of one or more data files to a client device the retrieval of one or more data files from a client device or the remote control of the functionality of a client device.

In another embodiment the command center PC may also establish its own connection to the check in service and thus be treated as another client device in the system for the purpose of transmitting and receiving data communications. As such the command center PC and any client device may establish a two way communication channel in the system including for example the ability to send text messages and other data to each other as described further below.

Set forth below for illustrative purposes are examples of some of the types of data communications that may be issued in the system . As further described below each type of data communication may have a particular number assigned to it for easier processing in the system . In an exemplary embodiment the data communications may be issued from a command center PC or by using the client device command function or a related function on the client device. In either case as noted earlier and as illustrated by the preceding the data communication may be routed first to the message delivery service based on the device ID of each selected client device and then to the message queue to await the next check in with check in service by the selected devices. In one embodiment the message queue may be configured in different ways to manage the stored data communications including for example the ability to allow a pending data communication to be recalled by its sender prior to the next check in with the check in service or to be deleted automatically if the next check in does not occur within a designated period of time.

As one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate the exact steps for initiating a data communication may vary depending on whether a command center PC or a client device is issuing the command allowing for among other things variations in the functionality of the underlying computing platform.

As with other aspects of the system the user may use various methods to access the command functionality including for example the use of drop down menus right click menus prompts and other methods available on the particular computing platform that is initiating the command. In another embodiment the user may select one or more individual client devices or a predetermined group of client devices to receive a command simultaneously from the command center server . In a further embodiment if a viewing window is open on a command center PC or a client device the user may access menu options embedded in the viewing window. In a further embodiment a user may schedule a command to be executed at a designated future time.

In addition the command center PC or the command function on the client device may be configured to allow a command to be accompanied by any number of optional separate notifications to the target client device. Depending on the functionality of the client device for example a command such as a distribute file command referenced below may be accompanied by a notification causing the client device to vibrate to create an audible sound to display a prompt etc. A command may also be accompanied by associated data such as the identity of the sender and the date and time the sender initiated the delivery.

As also noted earlier system may include various access controls to regulate when and under what circumstances any party to the system may exercise command and control functionality and the system is also designed to allow an organization to establish its own policy procedures to govern how a particular data communication may be issued by a command center operator or any client device.

In one embodiment a user may select a message command to send a text message within the system . Once the command has been selected the user may in one implementation of a user interface be prompted first to input the text message which may among other potential variations include inputting new text retrieving a previous text message or selecting a prerecorded message and then to select one or more client devices from a list of available devices.

Once the message command has been retrieved by a selected client device during its next check in service the text message may appear on the client device display screen without interrupting any other application that might then be running on the client device. For example if the text message is sent while the client device is streaming live imagery to a command center server the message may be displayed on the client device display screen without interrupting that image stream.

In one embodiment the target client device may then use the command function to respond to the incoming text message or to forward it and any additional text message to one or more other client devices.

In one embodiment a user may select a distribute file command to distribute one or more data files within the system . By way of example the data file may be an image file an audio file such as an audio file created by the user of a client device a software application or other type of file that the client device is natively capable of processing. Once the command has been selected the user may in one implementation of a user interface be prompted first to select one or more data files and then to select one or more client devices from a list of available devices. As with the upload function a data file may originate from numerous sources including for example the client device itself hard drive flash drive disc DVD ROM etc. or from another data collection source that is communicatively coupled to the client device or from separate media such as a compact flash SD card etc.

In one embodiment once the file command is retrieved by the client device during the next check in service the client device may process the data file using a Web browser or other application available on the client device as follows 

In one embodiment a user may select a camera on command to remotely cause a client device to engage its transmit function and commence streaming live imagery to the command center server without user intervention at the remote device. Once the command has been selected the user may in one implementation of a user interface be prompted simply to select one or more remote client devices from a list of available devices.

According to one embodiment once the camera on command is retrieved by the remote client device during the next check in service the client device may launch the transmit function and commence streaming the live imagery to the extent as noted earlier that there is an available internal or external camera on the device.

In one embodiment a user may select a camera off command to remotely cause a client device to terminate its transmit function and cease streaming live imagery to the command center server without user intervention at the remote device. As with the camera on command once the camera off command has been selected the user may in one implementation of a user interface be prompted simply to select one or more remote client devices from a list of available devices.

Once the camera off command is retrieved by the client device during the next check in service the client device may automatically terminate the transmit function .

In one embodiment a user may select a phone call command to remotely cause a client device to initiate a telephone call without user invention at the remote device to the extent the target client device has available an internal or external phone functionality. The phone number may include for example a conference call bridge number together with any applicable authorization codes or passwords so that multiple callers may be connected automatically with each other. Once the command has been selected the user may in one implementation of a user interface be prompted first to enter the phone number including for example any additional numbers necessary to access a conference call bridge number and then to select one or more remote client devices from a list of available devices.

Once the command is retrieved by the remote client device during the next check in service the client device may establish a wireless connection dial the phone number and among other potential variations go into speaker phone mode.

In one embodiment a user may select a switch users command to remotely cause a client device to engage its watch mode viewing mode to display a live image stream from a designated fixed camera another client device or another source. Once the command has been selected the user may be prompted first to select the camera for viewing this step may occur automatically if the user exercises this command from a viewing window that is then viewing the same camera and then to select one or more remote client devices from a list of available devices.

Once the command is retrieved by the remote client device during the next check in service the client device may launch the watch function viewing mode and display the live imagery from the designated camera.

As noted earlier a client device may be configured to deliver certain designated information at certain intervals to the check in service such as for example battery level available broadband networks signal strength etc. In addition a user may select a status command to remotely cause a client device to report additional different or the same information about the client device or about any other device that may be communicatively coupled with the client device. According to one implementation of a user interface once the command has been selected the user may be prompted to select one or more remote client devices from a list of available devices.

Once the command is retrieved by the remote client device during the next check in service the client device may in one embodiment report the requested information back to the check in service for processing within the system .

In one embodiment the client software installed on a client device may include a kill pill function that when triggered may cause all of the data on the client device to be deleted and the device to be restored to its original factory settings. For example a kill pill may be used as a precaution in the event a client device is lost stolen or otherwise compromised. In another embodiment a user may select a kill pill command to remotely cause the kill pill function to be triggered on a client device. Once the command has been selected the user may in one implementation of a user interface be prompted to select one or more remote client devices from a list of available devices.

Once the command is retrieved by the client remote device during the next check in service the client device may automatically trigger the kill pill functionality on the client software. In another embodiment the kill pill command may be sent to the client device via another method that does not require the client device to be checking in such as through the use of short messaging service SMS . SMS is a technology well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and is not described further.

Other embodiments may combine the functionality of two or more commands such as the message command and the live viewing command into a single command.

If the client is in on duty mode yes path from step method may proceed to step . If the client is not in on duty mode no path from step the user of the client device may in step launch the configuration function and in step select the displayed option to place the client device in on duty mode. Once the client device is in on duty mode yes path from step method may proceed to step .

In step method may determine whether the client device has an open TCP IP connection with a network allowing the client device to transmit and receive data. TCP IP is a term well known to those of ordinary skill in the art of the present invention and is not described further in the interest of brevity. Alternatively any other suitable data communication protocol may be used. If the client device has an open TCP IP connection with a network yes path from step method in step may report an internal state of ready on the client device and as described further below attempt to initiate a network connection to the check in service step . If the client device does not have an open TCP IP connection with a network no path from step method may proceed to assess whether the conditions are present to establish a network connection. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these conditions may vary depending on the specific client device. For example different conditions may apply if the client device relies on a wired network or a wireless network and if the latter whether the client device relies on a commercial cellular network for wireless coverage as opposed to a Wi Fi wireless local area network or if the client device is configured with multiple types of RF circuitry . Thus the following discussion of steps is intended to provide illustrative examples of the conditions that may be assessed by method according to one embodiment.

For example in step no path from step method may determine whether the applicable RF circuitry on the client device has been turned on. If the answer is no no path from step method in step may report an internal state of not ready on the client device. As described further below for a designated period of time method may stop attempting to initiate a network connection to the check in service . According to one embodiment the designated period of time between attempts may be the check in time interval. As noted earlier for example the configuration function may be configured with a check in time interval of 15 seconds or some shorter or longer timeframe depending on an organization s specific requirements.

If the RF circuitry on the client device is on yes path from step method may determine in step whether there is an active voice call taking place on the client device temporarily preventing the client device from establishing a TCP IP connection. If the answer is yes yes path from step method in step may report an internal state of not ready on the client device. If the answer is no no path from step method in step may determine whether there is currently data coverage available via the applicable wireless network or wired network . For example if the client device is attempting to communicate via a commercial cellular network method in step may determine whether the applicable wireless carrier s data network is available.

If data coverage is not available no path from step method in step may report an internal state of not ready on the client device. If data coverage is available yes path from step method may attempt in step to open a TCP IP connection with the applicable data network. If that attempt fails no path from step method in step may report an internal state of not ready on the client device. If that attempt is successful yes path from step method in step may report an internal state of ready on the client device.

In one implementation of step in each instance in which method reports an internal state of ready the client device may attempt to initiate a network connection to the check in service step on its assigned command center server . Method may then determine in step whether that attempt is successful. If the answer is yes yes path from step method may proceed to step as described further below. If the answer is no no path from step method in step may report an internal state of not ready on the client device.

In step once a successful connection has occurred to the check in service the client device may report its device ID and other designated information to the check in service Step . The client device may then report its status to the check in service Step such as whether it is currently engaged in a specified activity. For example 

In addition according to one embodiment illustrated in the client device may in step report its location data such as its geospatial coordinates available from the location subfunction of the configuration function . As noted earlier the reported location data may be received in multiple ways including by the check in service or the transmit function and routed to specific entries for the device in the last known table and the position log .

Referring now to the client device may then in step request all pending data communications from the check in service . As described earlier and according to one embodiment of the present invention these data communications may have been originated by a command center PC or by another client device and may be stored temporarily in the message queue until they are retrieved by the check in service and delivered to the applicable client device. According to one embodiment the data communications may be delivered to the client device in the order in which they first arrived in the message queue or based on some other hierarchical ordering. By way of illustration the command center server may be configured for example so that the kill pill command as described earlier takes priority over all other pending data communication according to one embodiment.

According to one embodiment each type of data communication in the system may have its own numeric message status for identification purposes and the check in service may report the existence of a particular data communication to the client device by identifying its numeric message status and by delivering any associated data necessary for the client device to execute that pending data communication.

Set forth below for illustrative purposes are examples of some of the numeric designations that may be assigned to some of the different types of data communications that may be issued in the system . As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate actual nomenclature and numeric designations may vary in the system .

If as shown in step the message status 0 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device that there are no pending data communications.

If as shown in step the message status 1 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the message command described earlier.

If as shown in step the message status 2 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the distribute file command described earlier.

If as shown in step the message status 3 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the camera on command described earlier.

If as shown in step the message status 4 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the camera off command described earlier.

If as shown in step the message status 5 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the phone call command.

If as shown in step the message status 6 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the switch users command described earlier.

If as shown in step the message status 7 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the status command described earlier.

If as shown in step the message status 8 that may in step yes path from step inform the client device to execute the kill pill command described earlier.

After the client device has received all of the pending data communications from the check in service it may in step terminate the network connection to the check in service and the configuration function may reset its internal timer for the next check in time internal. This check in message command retrieval cycle may repeat itself step until the client device is no longer in on duty mode.

In the embodiment illustrated after the client device has completed step it may in step proceed to execute each of the data communications received from the check in service for example in the order in which they were delivered to it or based on some other hierarchical ordering.

In an alternate embodiment the user of the client device may first receive a notification as to the number and nature of the data communications that have been delivered to the client device and be given the choice as to whether and to what extent the user wishes to allow those data communications to be executed on the client device.

As described further below the command center operator and each user of a client device may have any number of options available to view and distribute live video streams. As with other aspects of the system the precise scope of the options and the manner in which options may be exercised may vary depending on the functionality of the underlying computing platform and other variables.

As noted earlier the command center PC and one or more client devices may open one or more separate viewing windows to display a live video stream from any fixed camera any client device or other potential sources. In an exemplary embodiment each viewing window may have a separate image buffer which temporarily stores the live image stream as it is being received and gives the user multiple options to view analyze and distribute the recorded image frames. As noted earlier if a client device does not support separate viewing windows the watch function viewing mode or another component of the client software may incorporate its own separate image buffer.

As shown in method may begin with the user of a command center PC or a client device. Using any of the available selection methods previously described the user may select one or more available fixed camera or client devices or other potential sources for live viewing Step .

If in step the user has selected a fixed camera for viewing then in step the desktop application if the user is using a command center PC or the watch function viewing mode if the user is using a client device may as noted earlier and according to one embodiment compute the URL for the selected fixed camera and in step open an IP connection to that fixed camera or to any intervening command center server proxy server incorporated into the system to retrieve the live image stream. The incoming image live stream may then in step be received by and temporarily stored in a separate image buffer maintained in memory on the user s applicable command center PC or client device. The image stream may be stored in the local image buffer on a frame by frame basis. In step a separate viewing window may be opened as well to display the live image stream stored in that local image buffer.

If the user has instead selected a client device for viewing step in method method may as described earlier retrieve the device s live image stream from the command center server image buffer to which the live imagery is being sent. In that case the desktop application if the user is using a command center PC or the watch function viewing mode if the user is using a client device may as noted earlier and according to one embodiment proceed in step to compute the IP address of the relevant image buffer based on the device ID of the transmitting client device and on the IP address of the corresponding command center server . With that computation method may in step retrieve the image frames by in step establishing a connection to the relevant image buffer and then in step temporarily storing the retrieved frames in a separate image buffer maintained in memory on the user s applicable command center PC or client device. The image stream may be stored in the local image buffer on a frame by frame basis in one embodiment. In step a separate viewing window may be opened as well to display the live image stream stored in that local image buffer.

According to one embodiment the user may open and view simultaneously multiple viewing windows each of which may display a different live image stream each being buffered in a separate local image buffer. As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate design tradeoffs may establish a limit on the number of image frames that may be stored in a local image buffer at any one time depending on the available memory on the command center PC or client device and on other resource constraints. In one embodiment a configurable storage limit may be set per image buffer such as by way of example a storage limit of 3000 frames. As noted earlier the image buffering process is known to those of ordinary skill in the art of the present invention and is not described in greater detail in the interest of brevity.

According to one embodiment as the user is viewing the live image stream on the viewing window the user may exercise various playback controls with respect to the image frames being stored in the embedded local image buffer including the ability to pause rewind and fast forward through the locally stored image frames. For example in one implementation of a user interface the command center operator may use various methods to pause the image display such as by the use of a designated play pause button a menu item a slide control etc.

At that point according to one implementation the viewing window may display a single image frame that image frame being referred to generally as a paused image frame and the embedded local image buffer may continue to store the incoming video stream from the applicable fixed camera or client device. According to one embodiment the embedded image buffer may continue to store the incoming video stream until the viewing window is closed by the user or if earlier the embedded image buffer has reached a predetermined storage limit as described previously.

If the user then selects the play pause button a second time the viewing window may display the live image stream from the point at which the pause first occurred according to one embodiment. For example if the command center operator is watching a live image stream and selects the pause button at a point where there are 50 image frames stored in the embedded image buffer and then selects the pause button a second time at a point where there are 200 image frames stored in the embedded image buffer the viewing window may display the image stream from the 51image frame not the 200frame. To display the live image stream from the 200th frame or whatever is then the most current image frame being transmitted by the applicable camera the user may in one embodiment use various methods to do so such as by the use of a designated button menu item slide control etc.

Comparable controls may be used to exercise any number of other available playback controls as well such as rewinding or fast forwarding at varying speeds according to one embodiment.

According to one embodiment the user may also exercise various distribution options as well from the viewing window including among other potential options the ability to distribute inside or outside the system any one or more image frames being stored in the embedded local image buffer.

In one illustrative implementation if the user has paused an image stream on the viewing window as noted above the user may choose any number of menu items user prompts or other methods to distribute that paused image inside or outside the system . Several examples of some of the types of distribution options that may be incorporated into the system are described in detail below.

First the user may distribute the paused image directly to one or more client devices. This option is one variation of the distribute file command mentioned earlier and functions in essentially the same fashion in the system according to one embodiment. In one embodiment the paused image frame is pre selected as the desired data file to be distributed and the user is then prompted to select one or more client devices to receive it. At that point the distribute file command is routed to the message delivery service to await the next connection to the check in service of the selected client device s . When that next connection to the check in service occurs and the distribute file command is retrieved by a selected client device the client device may implement the distribute file command by opening the device s Web browser and displaying the paused image frame on the display screen .

Second the user may save the paused image frame to a file system. In one embodiment the image frame may be assigned an initial file name automatically by the desktop application if the user is using the command center PC or the client software if the user is using a client device and may be saved in the same or a different file format. After naming the typical operating system procedures otherwise available on the applicable device such as Windows XP procedures may control the completion of the saving process.

Third the user may email the paused image. In one embodiment the image frame may likewise be assigned an initial file name by the applicable desktop application or client software and the named file may appear automatically in an email attachment box. After naming conventional email procedures such as Microsoft Outlook procedures may control the completion and distribution of the email.

Fourth the user may copy the image to a temporary file e.g. the clipboard such as a Windows clipboard file for subsequent retrieval by pasting or attaching to any application that supports the clipboard such as an image annotation software or a word processing software.

In another illustrative implementation the user may select a range of frames contained in the local image buffer i.e. a video clip and distribute that video clip inside or outside the system in substantially the same manner as a paused image frame. In one embodiment the user may use any of the available controls on the viewing window to first identify the first frame in the local image buffer the user wishes to include in the clip then commence a recording function such as for example through the use of a record button or other control and then cease the recording at the last frame the user wishes to include in the clip such as for example by selecting a record button or other control . At that point the user may exercise any of the available distribution options in the system including as noted above the ability to distribute the clip to one or more client devices to save the clip to a file system to email the clip etc.

As noted earlier data files introduced into the system may be stored in different ways on one or more command center servers or on one or more intervening command center servers or on one or more available storage methods that are communicatively coupled to a command center server etc. depending on their particular characteristics. In the case of live image streams from a fixed camera a client device or other source for example the incoming data files may be routed by the command center server image service on a frame by frame or other basis to the frames database in the database application for archiving and subsequent retrieval. As also noted earlier associated data files such as location data and sensor data may be embedded into the archived image frames or stored separately in the system but cataloged in a manner that permits the associated data to be retrieved automatically when the corresponding image frames are retrieved.

Stored image files and other associated and or independent data files may be displayed in the system in various ways and the command center operator and each user of a client device may have any number of options available to search for view and distribute the stored data files. Set forth below for illustrative purposes is one example of a user interface that may be implemented in the system with respect to image frames stored in the frames database according to one embodiment. As with other aspects of the system the precise scope of the user interface and the manner in which data files may be exercised may vary depending on the functionality of the underlying computing platform and other variables.

In one embodiment a user may select any number of methods available on a command center PC or client device pull down menus right click menus buttons etc. to initiate a search of the frames database . As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate any single search parameter or combination of parameters may be applied to find particular image frames in the frames database . Among other potential implementations a user may be prompted to search by any one or more of the following parameters 

As shown in the embodiment of the desktop application if a command center PC is initiating the search or the archive function if a client device is initiating the search may in path communicate with the data service via a wired network or a wireless network or a combination of the two to request the available archived image frames based on the designated search parameters.

In path the data service may retrieve the requested frames and associated data from the frames database or other source if as noted earlier the associated data is stored separately from but otherwise associated with designated image frames.

In path the data service may deliver the retrieved frames and data to an archive viewer which may store the frames and associated data temporarily in memory on the user s applicable command center PC or client device. In path the archive viewer may display the frames and associated data on the user s display screen in various formats such as a table format depending on the nature of the search results and other variables.

As noted earlier and according to one embodiment the system may allow a configurable limit on the number of image frames that may be stored locally in memory on the command center PC or a client device depending on the available memory and other resource constraints. The same may hold true for the number of archived image frames stored in association with the archive display format.

As explained a table format may be one embodiment of a user interface for displaying archived image frames. Among other potential display options the table format may include one or more configurable columns displaying information about each available archived image frame produced by the search function such as for example one or more columns displaying 

As noted earlier when a user of a command center PC or a client device is viewing a live image stream in the system any number of distribution options may be available to distribute any one or more of the incoming image frames inside or outside the system . In an exemplary embodiment any one or more archived image frames displayed in the table format may be distributed inside or outside the system in substantially the same fashion. That is as described earlier and among other potential distribution options any one or more image frames may be 

In addition to viewing still images a user may also select any number of image frames in the table format for display as streaming video such as an M JPEG video stream.

In one implementation of a user interface for archive viewer the user may use any number of menu items or other controls to select any discrete frames or ranges s of frames from the table format that the user wishes to include in the video steam. As described further below a user may then select a play button or other control to open a viewing window and display the archived video stream in one embodiment.

As noted earlier when a user of a command center PC or a client device is viewing a live image stream in the system the user may open and view simultaneously multiple viewing windows each of which may display a different video image stream each being buffered in a separate local image buffer. In an exemplary embodiment a substantially similar method may be used to view an archived video stream. As noted earlier in an alternative embodiment if a client device does not support separate viewing windows the watch function viewing mode or another component of the client software may incorporate its own separate image buffer.

As illustrated by the archive viewer may in path communicate with the archiving service via a wired network or a wireless network or a combination of the two to request designated archived image frames as described previously.

The image service may in path retrieve from the frames database the available image frames which frames may as noted earlier have additional data such as location data encoded into them or otherwise stored separately but associated with them.

The archiving service may also in path reformat the retrieved image frames as a video stream such as an M JPEG video stream and route that reformatted image stream to a separate image buffer maintained temporarily in memory on the user s applicable command center PC or client device. Path may be used to send some associated information to archive viewer .

In path available location data and other suitable data may be routed by the archiving service to one or more GIS applications that may be integrated into the archive viewer according to one embodiment.

If there is available location data the archive viewer may as noted earlier in the context of viewing live video streams be configured in different ways to allow the user to visualize the location data in one embodiment. Among other potential visualization options 

In path the archive viewer may open a viewing window to display the image stream buffered in image buffer . In addition if location data has been routed to a GIS application step the archive viewer may in one potential implementation cause the GIS application to use numeric placemarkers or other indicators give a display of geographic context such as a location on an aerial photo or map indicating the location from which archived video imagery was originally transmitted to the command center server .

As with the displaying of a live image stream on a viewing window the user may exercise playback controls when viewing an archived image stream on a viewing window according to one embodiment. For example in one exemplary user interface for archive viewer the user may use various controls such as a play pause button menu item slide control etc. to invoke the functionally described previously with respect to the playback controls for viewing a live image stream.

As with distributing an image frame from a live video feed described previously the user may exercise the same types of distribution controls when viewing an archived image stream on a viewing window according to one embodiment. For example in one exemplary user interface for archive viewer the use may pause an archived image stream using a play pause button or other control and distribute the paused image frame inside or outside the system in substantially the same fashion such as by distributing it directly to one or more client devices saving it to a file system distributing by email or copying to a clipboard.

In addition the user may select a range of frames contained in the local image buffer i.e. a video clip and distribute that video clip inside or outside the system in substantially the same manner as a paused image frame.

Further the user may cause one or more client devices to display the same archived video stream created by that user in one embodiment. This option is one variation of the switch users command mentioned earlier and functions in essentially the same fashion. Once the command has been selected the user may in one implementation of a user interface be prompted to select one or more client devices from a list of available devices. Once the command is retrieved by a selected client device during the next check in service the client device may launch the watch function viewing mode and display the archived stream.

As noted earlier camera catalog for a command center server may maintain an entry for each fixed camera that an organization wishes to incorporate into the system according to one embodiment. As one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate camera catalog may be populated in any number of ways within the scope of the invention. For example if the organization already has that data available in some format such as a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet or some other application format that data may be imported into camera catalog . In addition among other methods the system may have a separate Web based method to populate and update the information contained in camera catalog according to one embodiment.

An exemplary embodiment of a user interface for such a Web based application may allow a user to select a control shown on the management console which may cause a Web page to open accessing the cataloging service . The Web page may retrieve from the cataloging service and display a list of fixed cameras currently maintained in camera catalog . To change the information in camera catalog the user e.g. command center operator or other authorized personnel may among other potential options and according to one embodiment 

It is contemplated that additional and or different methods for how data is stored in camera catalog may exist without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example an organization may define its own fields in the camera catalog and specific attributes associated with these fields.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the server software the mobile client software the desktop client software and other components of the system may include their own respective application programming interfaces to allow for integration with a variety of third party products and systems such as for example existing third party imagery databases video surveillance tools and infrastructures third party alerting and messaging systems and artificial intelligence solutions such as facial and object recognition applications.

As noted earlier systems and methods consistent with the invention may be designed to incorporate various security features including access controls virtual private networks VPNs and other encryption technologies and user verification and authentication.

It is contemplated that various component and or subsystems associated with the disclosed data acquisition and distribution system may be included as part of a separate system or may be integrated within one or more other systems. For example it is contemplated that the processes and or systems associated with command center PC may be implemented on one or more mobile client devices designated to operate as the command center PC . Alternatively and or additionally although illustrates certain components as components external to mobile client device e.g. RF external adapter and external GPS receiver it is contemplated that these components may be integrated within mobile client device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure and the embodiments associated therewith.

Similarly it is contemplated that various processes illustrated and or described as being associated with certain components and or systems may be associated with other components and or systems. For instance it is contemplated that certain processes performed by command center PC may be performed by one or more client devices. Accordingly it is contemplated that any feature process and or system associated with command center PC may be associated with a client device. Thus one or more client devices may be designated as a command server for performing the command and control processes associated with the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore although certain components or systems may be described as being mobile it is contemplated that this term may also refer to fixed devices that may be configured as mobile or virtually mobile devices. For example throughout the disclosure reference is made to mobile client devices. It is contemplated that this term may refer to desktop and or network clients configured with certain software such as mobile client software to possess many of the same functionalities as the mobile client device.

The present invention has been described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof. However it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that it is possible to embody the invention in specific forms other than that those of the exemplary embodiments described above. This may be done without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The exemplary embodiments described herein are merely illustrative and should not be considered restrictive in any way.

