---

title: Modular current sensor for modularized servo control system
abstract: A modular current sensing system for a servo control system that includes a magnetic core with an open center portion and a connection plate that includes at least three wire connectors, wherein the wire connectors are capable of connecting at least two wires electrically in series. The system also includes a plurality of wires, including a first wire with a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the first wire is electrically connected to a first power source, and the second end of the first wire is connected to the connection plate at the first wire connector and wherein the first wire passes through the open portion defined by the magnetic core at least once. A first motor current flowing through the first wire induces a core current to flow in the magnetic core, causing the magnetic core to emit a magnetic field. A Hall effect sensor detects the magnetic field, produces an output current, and delivers the output current to a control device within a servo control system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07459900&OS=07459900&RS=07459900
owner: BAE Systems Land & Armaments L.P.
number: 07459900
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070205
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 764 868 filed Feb. 3 2006 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The invention was made by an agency of the U.S. Government or under a contract with an agency of the U.S. Government. The name of the U.S. Government agency is the U.S. Army and the Government contract number is DAAE 30 92 C 1112.

The present invention relates to motor control applications and in particular to a modularized servo control system including a modular current sensing system capable of operating across heterogeneous high amperage power interfaces and a modular thermal management system.

Modern military procurement typically requires development of a family of systems in order to gain approval. Therefore it is often desirable in military applications to provide modularized systems that can be utilized in numerous embodiments while maintaining broad applicability. For example the Future Combat Systems FCS Manned Ground Vehicle MGV will share a common architecture that focuses on high performance commonality and reliability. Control systems that are used on military vehicles such as the MGV vary widely depending on the assigned task. More specifically the servo control system must be capable of driving widely varying motor loads encountered in a family of military vehicles. Moreover the servo control must be lightweight and have a small volume. The FCS system will incorporate many servo controlled motors and actuators. For example the Non Line of Sight NLOS cannon requires motor actuator control for index magazine close breech raise load arm track gun sight and other operations.

To move an object and position it at a predetermined location a servomotor and servo control circuit are required as motive sources for obtaining a rotational position velocity torque and the like which are in accordance with commanded data. Servo control is executed to produce an output based on a comparison between an externally applied command signal input and a feedback signal indicative of the state of the servomotor.

A variety of brushless DC and AC induction motors are commonly used in this type of military servo control application. Typically the motors used in these applications are controlled by commutating the current supplied to the stationary windings. Rotor position sensors are usually included as an integral part of the motor and provide the controller with signals that indicate the position of the rotor magnets relative to the stator windings. To achieve high efficiency control of the motor current is accomplished by pulse width modulating solid state switches usually power switching transistors.

To accurately and reliably control the current as required in such an application military servo control systems employ sensitive current sensors to determine real time current flow to the servo motor. Typically multiple current sensors will be used to measure a motor s primary and secondary windings including individual phase windings. In the case of a Hall based current sensor a current carrying wire is passed through and wound around a magnetic core while a Hall effect sensor detects a magnetic field induced in the core. A number of factors may affect the accuracy of the current sensor but the number of turns around the core is a primary factor.

When the servo control system controls multiple motors of different sizes the number of different current sensors used in a system increases. One solution to this problem has been to simply sacrifice current sensing accuracy by using a current sensor optimized for a particular current across a wide range of motor currents. This optimizes accuracy within a narrow range of measured currents but seriously decreases accuracy at the outer ranges. In military servo control systems sacrificing accuracy is usually not an option. Another solution has been to design and use different current sensors for each motor size. However in military applications that value modularity and commonality carrying an inventory of many different motor specific current sensors is not a practical solution.

Accurately and reliably sensing high amperage motor current relies upon consistent reliable operation of the greater servo control system. As such another critical component of any servo control system is an efficient thermal management system. This is especially true in a military servo control system serving a wide range of high amperage servo motors.

Therefore a need exists for a universal high amperage current sensing system along with a versatile thermal management system that can accurately and reliably serve a wide range of servo motors in a greater servo control system.

One embodiment of the present invention is a modular current sensing system for a servo control system that includes a magnetic core with an open center portion and a connection plate. The connection plate includes at least three wire connectors wherein each wire connector is capable of connecting at least two wires electrically in series. The system also includes a plurality of wires including a first wire with a first end and a second end wherein the first end of the first wire is electrically connected to a first power source and the second end of the first wire is connected to the connection plate at the first wire connector and wherein the first wire passes through the open portion defined by the magnetic core at least once. A first motor current flowing through the first wire induces a core current to flow in the magnetic core causing the magnetic core to emit a magnetic field. A Hall effect sensor detects the magnetic field produces an output current and delivers the output current to a control device within a servo control system.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a method for sensing current flowing from a power source to a motor in a servo control system. The method includes generating a primary current in a power source conducting the primary current through a first primary wire winding the primary wire about a magnetic core and inducing a first core current and a first magnetic field in the magnetic core. The method also includes connecting the primary wire to a connection plate conducting the primary current through the connection plate through a splice device back through the connection plate and into a second primary wire. The second primary wire is wound about the core inducing a second core current in the magnetic core and a second magnetic field. The method further includes sensing the first and second magnetic fields with a Hall effect sensor generating an output current proportional to the sum of all core currents and sending the output current to a control device in a servo control system.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a thermal management system integrated into a servo control unit and servo power electronics system. The thermal management system includes a power side distribution manifold including at least one connection port and at least one fluid connector. This manifold also forms a cooling plate for the servo power electronics system. The thermal management system also includes a plurality of control side distribution manifolds. Each of these control side distribution manifold includes an inlet connected to the power side distribution manifold and an outlet connected to the power side distribution manifold. Also included are a plurality of control side cold plates that provide cooling for electronics located in the servo control unit. The cold plates are connected to the control side distribution manifolds. The system further includes a frame supporting the cold plates and control side manifolds and a coolant flowing through the power side distribution manifold inlets outlets control side manifolds and cold plates.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention is a method of simultaneously managing the thermal properties of a servo control unit and servo power electronics system. The method includes locating a servo power electronics system distribution manifold beneath a set of power electronics and also locating a plurality of servo control unit distribution manifolds in a servo control unit. Next is connecting a servo control unit distribution manifold to a servo power electronics system manifold via a plurality of inlets and outlets and connecting a plurality of cold plates to each servo control distribution manifold. The method also includes supporting the cold plates and the servo control unit distribution manifolds with a support frame. Other steps include flowing a coolant from the servo power electronics system through the outlets and into the servo control unit manifolds flowing the coolant from the servo control unit manifolds into the plurality of cold plates and flowing the coolant from the servo control unit manifolds through the outlets and back into the power side distribution manifold.

The above summary of the invention is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The figures and the detailed description that follow more particularly exemplify these embodiments.

The Primary Power Sense Block receives voltages from three different points on the primary power bus and a signal representing the current level in the primary power bus. It then conditions these signals and outputs the conditioned signals to the attached SCUs .

The Control Power Filter and Regulator Block takes the primary power and down converts it to the levels shown. All the outputs are filtered and isolated from each other except the 15V outputs which share a return from the input and from chassis. In the first embodiment output power is down converted to 28V 15V 15V 5V and 3.3V.

The Control Signal Summing Block receives the Power Up Down signals from the attached SCUs through and combines them using a Boolean AND function. It outputs this signal to the 3 different sets of contactors that are controlled by the SCUs .

The Common Mode Filter Block filters the primary power bus input to the SCU to reduce the susceptibility of downstream circuitry to conducted noise that is present on the bus as defined by E 55624 and MIL STD 461. This block also reduces conducted emissions caused by downstream circuitry to levels that are below the limits established in E 55624 and MIL STD 461. It outputs to the Primary Power Control Block .

The Primary Power Control Block controls the application of primary power to the SCU . It is controlled by the output of the Control Signal Summing block . It outputs to the Primary Power Sense Block and the Soft Start Block .

The Soft Start Block controls the application of the power resistor used to limit the inrush current when primary power is first supplied to the attached SCUs . When the contacts are engaged the resistor is bypassed. It is controlled by the output of the Control Signal Summing block .

The Regen Energy Steering Block provides a path for power to feedback from the SCU and motor to the primary power bus when the system is in regeneration mode.

The 2 Second Bleed Down Block provides a means to bleed the voltage off the system when primary power is disengaged. The circuit is designed to bleed down the voltage to 30V with respect to chassis within 2 seconds of primary power being turned off. It is controlled by the output of the Control Signal Summing block .

This block filters the primary power bus to reduce the susceptibility of downstream circuitry to conducted noise that is present on the bus as defined by E 55624 and MIL STD 461. 2 Reduces conducted emissions caused by downstream circuitry to levels that are below the limits established in E 55624 and MIL STD 461. 3 Provide stabilization of the high voltage bus to the attached SCUs .

The Cover Interlock Block senses the removal of one of the SPIU s covers. The switches are closed when the covers are on and open when a cover is removed. Upon removal of a cover the PDU will sense the high impedance state and remove high voltage power from the unit.

The DSC is the 2 or 3 axis depending on type motion controller component of the SCU providing low level position velocity and torque brushless DC servo motor control. The HAMP interface is one of many important interfaces to the DSC . The DSC senses motor position from resolvers and senses current using current sensing systems flowing through the power switches in the HAMP . Current feedback closes the torque loop and resolver feedback from the motor and load closes the velocity and position loops respectively. The DSC then generates a PWM motor command to the HAMP twice per loop update. The DSC communicates with the next higher level of control over a dual redundant medium speed serial bus in the form of command data control and status packets. Digital and analog discrete I O interface to the SCU and to the outside providing additional status for Built In Test BIT and safety.

The DSC communicates to the Integrated Computer Unit ICU via GBE serial ports. CANBUS ISO 11898 RS422 and assorted other discrete I Os interface to devices necessary to make it function and necessary to provide the flexibility and commonality for application over a wide variety of platforms. Two key components define the DSC the processor and the Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . The processor consists of one or more DSPs or RISC processors that together provide the control to the motors. Each processor performs specific individual functions. The FPGA provides the interface between the supported I O devices and the processor manages external memory resources and numerous other motion related functions. Processors communicate with the FPGA via individual local busses. Each 32 bit bus contains SDRAM memory and flash dedicated to each DSP. Flash memory serves to initialize the processor at power up. DDR RAM external to the FPGA provides the necessary memory over a 32 bit memory bus for two Power PC processors embedded in the FPGA. External flash memory contains the configuration files for the FPGA controlled by a Complex Programmable Logic Device CPLD . Analog to Digital A D and Digital to Analog D A modules interface to the FPGA over separate 14 bit busses to further improve overall DSC processing performance.

Each SPIU power side thermal management system includes an SPIU manifold one or more ports and one or more blind fluid connectors . SPIU manifold functions as both a cold plate for the SPIU and as a distribution manifold for SCU thermal management systems .

Referring again to the manifold delivers the coolant to the cold plates . The coolant delivery begins at the rear of the SPIU manifold with coolant traveling into each SCU thermal management systems via fluid connectors which may be blind mate fluid connectors and inlet in the direction indicated by arrow . Inside the SCU thermal management system the coolant is delivered to the cold plates via SCU manifold . The coolant then follows a similar return path exiting SCU manifold via outlet and blind connector in the direction indicated by arrow . Coolant then enters the rear of the SPIU where it will then exit the SCS .

Most embodiments of the SCS include a current sensing system such as the one depicted in . In one embodiment the current sensing system includes transducer wires and and connector plate . Transducer includes a Hall effect sensor magnetic transducer core and output current . Magnetic core may be toroidally shaped with a center and may be comprised of iron. In one embodiment core and Hall effect sensor may be combined into a single commercially available transducer such as a LC1000 S that produces output current Io. In other embodiments core and Hall effect sensor may be separately packaged.

In one embodiment wire is a primary motor wire wire is a secondary motor wire and wire may be either a primary or secondary motor wire. Wire is connected at one end to connection plate at connection point and to a HAMP or possibly another power source at the other end. The connection may be direct or indirect through another connector. Wire passes through the center of core and may be wrapped around the core any number of turns. In the embodiment depicted in wire is wrapped two times around the core or has two turns . Current Ih may flow through wire . Wires and both wrap around the core and both ends of each wire and are connected to connection plate at connection points to as depicted in . Connection points to on connection plate may include any number of known wire connectors.

In operation any current flowing through the wires wound around the core will induce a current Ic in the core which will be detected by the Hall Effect sensor . Transducer produces an output current Io that is a function of the current induced in the core Ic. Usually the output current Io is a fraction of the induced current Ic. The LC1000 S embodiment of transducer is a divide by 1000 device meaning that the output current Io is divided by 1000. Each turn of a wire around the core acts as a multiplier for the induced current Ic. For example if the induced current Ic is 1 mA with 1 turn of wire it will be 4 mA with 4 turns of wire . Output current Io is received by a control device or system such as DCS for motor control and monitoring purposes. The resolution and sensitivity of current sensing system is improved by increasing the number of wire turns.

In the embodiment depicted in the current sensing system includes two eight gauge wires and with two turns each and a single twelve gauge wire with four turns. Connection plate includes five corresponding connection points to to accommodate the five wire ends. In other embodiments the current sensing system may include more or fewer wires of larger or smaller diameters or gauges. The number of wire turns around the core may also vary as will the number of connection points on connection plate .

However despite the large number of embodiments of current sensing system available for use in SCS any single embodiment may serve multiple motor sizes and HAMPs or varying outputs.

For example current sensing system as depicted in may use a wiring configuration as depicted in and . In this embodiment wire is connected to a wire through connection plate . Wire feeds current Ih to the primary winding of a motor such as motor or . Any current Ih flowing through wires and will be sensed by current sensing system producing an output current Io that reflects the actual current flowing to through wire . In this embodiment though wires and are connected to connection plate no motor wires are connected to connection plate at connection points to so wires and are not used. In this embodiment the sensitivity of current sensor may not be critical and the motor may only have a primary wire and no secondary wires.

Referring to and the sensitivity of current sensing system is improved by connecting wires and at splice . With this splice wire becomes electrically connected in series with wire resulting in a four turn configuration. The output current Io of this embodiment is doubled due to the doubling of turns as compared to the embodiment of and . Wire feeds current Ih to the primary winding of a motor such as motor or . In this configuration wire and connection points and remain unused though in some configurations the secondary winding of a motor or may be connected to wire at connection points and to measure additional current flowing to a motor.

Referring to and the sensitivity of current sensing system is further improved as compared to previous embodiments by adding a second splice . With the addition of splice in addition to splice wires and are electrically connected in series and the number of turns about core is increased to eight. As before this increases output current Io increasing sensitivity and accuracy of current sensing system . However in this embodiment despite the increased sensitivity the overall current carrying capability of this embodiment of current sensing system is decreased as compared to previously described embodiments. In this embodiment current Ih from HAMP to motor or flows through series connected wire which is a smaller diameter wire than either wires or .

As the embodiments of illustrate simple wire splices may be added to a common current sensing system to accommodate the power and control characteristics of a particular motor or HAMP combination. By doing so a single current sensing system may be used with a variety of SCUs SPIUs HAMPs and motors and with only minor modifications.

In yet another embodiment of current sensing system it is possible to vary the number of wires that are wound around the core. has only two wires wires and as compared to previous embodiments which included three wires. In this embodiment a connection plate includes only three connection points and . In this embodiment current sensing system could serve a higher amperage motor or with the embodiment shown in with current flowing through single larger diameter wires and in a two turn configuration.

Alternatively if current Ih does not exceed the current carrying capabilities of wire the embodiment of could be used. Splice connects larger wire gauge and smaller wire gauge in series through connection plate increasing the sensitivity of current sensing system . In another embodiment the primary wire of a motor or may be connected to wire while the secondary wire is connected to wire embodiment not depicted .

The open center portion of magnetic core and the wire gauge dictates how many wires may be wound about core . The area of this open area limits the size and number of turns of the wires. For example in the percentage of the center core s open area is approximately 50 while in the percentage is approximately 35 . A higher fill percentage is more difficult to construct since each additional turn reduces the available space for the next turn. Of course thicker wire fills the space faster with each turn than does a thinner wire. Further the geometry of the core of the transducer can impact the fill percentage. While the core is drawn as square it could be of nearly any shape including circular oval or rectangular.

Therefore the various configuration of the embodiment of current sensing system as depicted in is capable of serving a variety of HAMPs and motors and .

Referring to in yet another embodiment of current sensing system the primary wire wound around the transducer core does not necessarily need to be a single wire. Instead the primary wire can be multiple wires. In one embodiment a 3 phase motor uses 2 wires for each phase. Thus the current for each phase passes through both wires. As such both wires need to be sensed. The embodiment of current sensing system as depicted in and shows two wires wires and serving as the primary wires. Likewise the secondary wires can be multiple wires run in parallel such as wire and possibly another wire not shown . Of course any splices would need to take in account the number of wires in the primary and secondary sets as shown in .

However the use of splices may not be practical in some applications. Another embodiment of current sensing system allows for current sensing for each phase with or without the need to use splices. In two distinct primary wire sets are provided wire set and wire . Each wire could be of a different gauge wire to allow the user to match the motor s current needs to the supply. Further each primary wire and could have a different number of turns depending on the desired current measuring sensitivity and resolution. Of course it is possible to have each primary wire be identical in wire gauge and number of turns so as to provide the user with a redundant transducer should one fail. Further the primary wires do not need to be limited to a single wire. For example in the primary set is shown as a pair of wires and with 4 turns each and the secondary wire is a single wire with 8 turns.

In the embodiment depicted in to help a user be consistent with which set of primary wires is to be connected a connection plate can group each set of primary wires for a single motor or together. For example in the left half of connection plate is dedicated to a first motor not shown while the right half is dedicated to a second motor not shown . The connection plate has the primary wires for each phase with two wires per phase grouped together and the secondary wires are likewise grouped. The connection plate may also provide a ground or chassis wire connection as depicted at the bottom of each quadrant of connection plate . It is also possible to have only one primary wire or more than two sets of primary wires. The fill percentage and the density of the connectors in the end plate would dictate just how many sets of primary wires are possible and or practical.

The HAMP connection plate of allows the user to connect two separate 3 phase motors to the same plate. The Top Section provides a set of dual wire connections for the upper wires for each phase. The Lower Section provides a single wire connection for the lower wires for each phase. Both the Top and Lower sections of the end connector plate can also have a single ground or chassis wire connection.

However the fill percentage can be quite high in this embodiment. An embodiment as shown in with 12 gauge wire has a fill percentage of approximately 74 which can be very difficult to construct.

Another embodiment provides for a combination of the transducer embodiment of and the HAMP connection plate of wherein the use of splices as exemplified by splice provides the ability to connect HAMPs of differing current requirements or change the current measuring sensitivity and resolution. As shown in the transducer has two primary wires and and a secondary wire . A splice would allow the user to connect the primary wires and and the secondary wire in series with each other. In this case the fill percentage is approximately 55 . Further the HAMP connection plate of has the connector points positioned to make the splices between the upper wires and the lower wires more convenient.

With respect to three phase motors connected to current sensing system phase 1 and phase 2 are both measured. Although phase 3 could be measured it would be unnecessary since all three phases must sum to be zero. Measuring and adding phases and would allow the user to calculate phase 3. As such a transducer for phase 3 is unneeded. However having a transducer on all three phases would allow a user to run diagnostic checks on the system by confirming that the transducer currents always sum to zero if they do not then the user will know that at least one transducer has failed.

As such the present invention therefore addresses and resolves many of the deficiencies and drawbacks previously identified. The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the essential attributes thereof therefore the illustrated embodiments should be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. For purposes of interpreting the claims for the present invention it is expressly intended that the provisions of Section 112 sixth paragraph of 35 U.S.C. are not to be invoked unless the specific terms means for or step for are recited in a claim.

