---

title: Aza-indolyl compounds and methods of use
abstract: The invention relates to azaindolyl compounds of Formula I with anti-cancer and/or anti-inflammatory activity and more specifically to azaindolyl compounds which inhibit MEK kinase activity. The invention provides compositions and methods useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder, or treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro, in situ, and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells, or associated pathological conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07855216&OS=07855216&RS=07855216
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 07855216
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071129
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 868 055 filed Nov. 30 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 917 620 filed May 11 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 944 743 filed Jun. 18 2007 which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to azaindolyl compounds with anti cancer activity and more specifically to azaindolyl compounds which inhibit MEK kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

In the quest to understand how Ras transmits extracellular growth signals the MAP mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK pathway has emerged as the crucial route between membrane bound Ras and the nucleus. The MAPK pathway encompasses a cascade of phosphorylation events involving three key kinases namely Raf MEK MAP kinase kinase and ERK MAP kinase . Active GTP bound Ras results in the activation and indirect phosphorylation of Raf kinase. Raf then phosphorylates MEK1 and 2 on two serine residues S218 and S222 for MEK1 and S222 and S226 for MEK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Activated MEK then phosphorylates its only known substrates the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2. ERK phosphorylation by MEK occurs on Y204 and T202 for ERK1 and Y185 and T183 for ERK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Phosphorylated ERK dimerizes and then translocates to the nucleus where it accumulates Khokhlatchev et al. 1998 93 605 615 . In the nucleus ERK is involved in several important cellular functions including but not limited to nuclear transport signal transduction DNA repair nucleosome assembly and translocation and mRNA processing and translation Ahn et al. Molecular Cell 2000 6 1343 1354 . Overall treatment of cells with growth factors leads to the activation of ERK1 and 2 which results in proliferation and in some cases differentiation Lewis et al. Adv. Cancer Res. 1998 74 49 139 .

There has been strong evidence that genetic mutations and or overexpression of protein kinases involved in the MAP kinase pathway lead to uncontrolled cell proliferation and eventually tumor formation in proliferative diseases. For example some cancers contain mutations which result in the continuous activation of this pathway due to continuous production of growth factors. Other mutations can lead to defects in the deactivation of the activated GTP bound Ras complex again resulting in activation of the MAP kinase pathway. Mutated oncogenic forms of Ras are found in 50 of colon and 90 pancreatic cancers as well as many others types of cancers Kohl et al. Science 1993 260 1834 1837 . Recently bRaf mutations have been identified in more than 60 of malignant melanoma Davies H. et al. Nature 2002 417 949 954 . These mutations in bRaf result in a constitutively active MAP kinase cascade. Studies of primary tumor samples and cell lines have also shown constitutive or overactivation of the MAP kinase pathway in cancers of pancreas colon lung ovary and kidney Hoshino R. et al. Oncogene 1999 18 813 822 .

MEK has emerged as an attractive therapeutic target in the MAP kinase cascade pathway. MEK downstream of Ras and Raf is highly specific for the phosphorylation of MAP kinase in fact the only known substrates for MEK phosphorylation are the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2. Inhibition of MEK has been shown to have potential therapeutic benefit in several studies. For example small molecule MEK inhibitors have been shown to inhibit human tumor growth in nude mouse xenografts Sebolt Leopold et al. 1999 5 7 810 816 Trachet et al. AACR Apr. 6 10 2002 Poster 5426 Tecle H. IBC 2.sup.nd International Conference of Protein Kinases Sep. 9 10 2002 block static allodynia in animals WO 01 05390 published Jan. 25 2001 and inhibit growth of acute myeloid leukemia cells Milella et al. 2001 108 6 851 859 .

Several small molecule MEK inhibitors have also been discussed in for example WO02 06213 WO 03 077855 and WO03 077914. There still exists a need for new MEK inhibitors as effective and safe therapeutics for treating a variety of proliferative disease states such as conditions related to the hyperactivity of MEK as well as diseases modulated by the MEK cascade.

The invention relates generally to azaindolyl compounds of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof with anti cancer and or anti inflammatory activity and more specifically with MEK kinase inhibitory activity. Certain hyperproliferative and inflammatory disorders are characterized by the modulation of MEK kinase function for example by mutations or overexpression of the proteins. Accordingly the compounds of the invention and compositions thereof are useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer and or inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.

R R Rand Rare independently selected from H halo CN CF OCF NO CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl 

Xis selected from R OR NRR S O R and S O R when Xis Ror OR Ror ORof Xis optionally taken together with N Rof W to form a 4 7 membered saturated or unsaturated ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R 

R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 8 membered saturated unsaturated or aromatic ring having 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

wherein each said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl of R R R R R R X X R R R R and Ris independently optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R 

each R Rand Ris independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 8 membered saturated unsaturated or aromatic ring having 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from H C Calkyl CH aryl CH carbocyclyl CH heterocyclyl and CH heteroaryl 

Ris C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein each member of Ris optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo oxo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

Rand Rare independently H or C Calkyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl .

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic and or a second anti inflammatory agent. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulae. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl 1 Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 18 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 18 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 18 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or O carboline.

The term halo refers to F Cl Br or I. The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclcyl include the oxidized forms such as N O S O and S O .

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms abnormal cell growth and hyperproliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma acute leukemia as well as head brain and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafamib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASEL megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above. Other anti angiogenic agents include MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitors and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Examples of such useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors that can be used in combination with the present compounds compositions are described in WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 EP 818442 EP 1004578 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 EP 606 046 EP 931 788 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 WO 99 07675 EP 945864 U.S. Pat. No. 5 863 949 U.S. Pat. No. 5 861 510 and EP 780 386 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Examples of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors include 4 4 bromo 2 fluoroanilino 6 methoxy 7 1 methylpiperidin 4 ylmethoxy quinazoline ZD6474 Example 2 within WO 01 32651 4 4 fluoro 2 methylindol 5 yloxy 6 methoxy 7 3 pyrrolidin 1 ylpropoxy quinazoline AZD2171 Example 240 within WO 00 47212 vatalanib PTK787 WO 98 35985 and SU11248 sunitinib WO 01 60814 and compounds such as those disclosed in PCT Publication Nos. WO 97 22596 WO 97 30035 WO 97 32856 and WO 98 13354 .

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in combination with the present compounds include inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as those reported in Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 and WO 97 15658 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Specific examples of such PI3K inhibitors include SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. .

The term inflammatory diseases as used in this application includes but not limited to rheumatoid arthritis atherosclerosis congestive hear failure inflammatory bowel disease including but not limited to Crohn s disease and ulcerative colitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the lung fibrotic disease in the liver and kidney Crohn s disease lupus skin diseases such as psoriasis eczema and scleroderma osteoarthritis multiple sclerosis asthma diseases and disorders related to diabetic complications fibrotic organ failure in organs such as lung liver kidney and inflammatory complications of the cardiovascular system such as acute coronary syndrome.

An anti inflammatory agent is a compound useful in the treatment of inflammation. Examples of anti inflammatory agents include injectable protein therapeutics such as Enbrel Remicade Humira and Kineret . Other examples of anti inflammatory agents include non steroidal anti inflammatory agents NSAIDs such as ibuprofen or aspirin which reduce swelling and alleviate pain disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs DMARDs such as methotrexate 5 aminosalicylates sulfasalazine and the sulfa free agents corticosteroids immunomodulators such as 6 mercaptoputine 6 MP azathioprine AZA cyclosporines and biological response modifiers such as Remicade infliximab and Enbrel etanercept fibroblast growth factors platelet derived growth factors enzyme blockers such as Arava leflunomide and or a cartilage protecting agent such as hyaluronic acid glucosamine and chondroitin.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as the MEK inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and trialkylsilyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I unless otherwise indicated include compounds of Formula I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

The present invention provides azaindolyl compounds of Formula I as described above useful as kinase inhibitors particularly useful as MEK kinase inhibitors. The present invention includes compounds of Formulae I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h I i II a II b II c II d II e II f II g II h II i III a III b III c III d III e III f III g III h and III i and all other variables are as defined in Formula I.

In an embodiment of the present invention compounds are of Formulae I b I f I g I h II b II f II g II h III b III f III g or III h and all other variables are as defined in Formula I.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CN CF NRR OR SR C O NRR or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I d I f I g II a II b II d II f II g III a III b III d III f or III g.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CN CF C Calkyl NRRwherein Rand Rare independently H or C Calkyl ORwherein Ris H or C Calkyl or SRwherein Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I d I f I g II a II b II d II f II g III a III b III d III f or III g.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H Cl CN CF methyl NH NH CH N CH OH or OCH and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I d I f I g II a II b II d II f II g III a III b III d III f or III g.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris not H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I d I f I g II a II b II d II f II g III a III b III d III f or III g.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris Cl CN CF methyl NH NH CH N CH OH or OCH and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I d I f I g II a II b II d II f II g III a III b III d III f or III g.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CN CF NRR OR SR C O NRR or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CN CF C Calkyl NRRwherein Rand Rare independently H or C Calkyl ORwherein Ris H or C Calkyl or SRwherein Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H Cl CN CF methyl NH NH CH N CH OH or OCH and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CN CF NRR OR SR C O NRR or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CF C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H F CF or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H F Cl CF methyl or CN and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I e I i II a II c II d II e II i III a III c III d III e or III i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CN CF NRR OR SR C O NRR or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I g I h II a II b II c II e II g II h III a III b III c III e III g or III h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CN CF NRRor C O NRRwherein Rand Rare independently H or C Calkyl ORwherein Ris H or C Calkyl or SRwherein Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I g I h II a II b II c II e II g II h III a III b III c III e III g or III h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H Br CN CF NH NH CH N CH C O NH C O NHCH C O N CH OH or OCH and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I g I h II a II b II c II e II g II h III a III b III c III e III g or III h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris halo or C Calkyl optionally substituted by halo and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c 1 e I g I h II a II b II c II e II g II h III a III b III c III e III g or III h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris independently H Cl Br Me Et F CHF or CF and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I g I h II a II b II c II e II g II h III a III b III c III e III g or III h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris independently H or F and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I g I h II a II b II c II e II g II h III a III b III c III e III g or III h or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i or II a to II i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i or II a to II i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i or II a to II i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i or II a to II i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis OR i.e. Formula II a to II i and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris C Calkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris heterocyclyl e.g. 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSORSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR R OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl having 1 nitrogen ring atom wherein said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS Y OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis Rand Xis taken together with N Rof W to form a 5 7 membered saturated or unsaturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR . SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis Rand Xis taken together with N Rof W to form a 5 6 membered saturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO OXO Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP R OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis Rand Xis taken together with N Rof W to form a 4 membered saturated or unsaturated cyclic ring having 0 1 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR C Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis ORand ORof Xis taken together with N Rof W to form a 4 7 membered saturated or unsaturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR C Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORand ORof Xis taken together with N Rof W to form a 5 7 membered saturated or unsaturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORand ORof Xis taken together with N Rof W to form a 5 6 membered saturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h or I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis Rwherein Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h or I i or as defined above

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis Rwherein Ris C Calkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO OXO Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h or I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis S O R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h or I i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis S O Rwherein Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h or I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention W is OR i.e. Formula III a III b III c III d III e III f III g III h or III i wherein Rof W is H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention W is OR i.e. Formula III a III b III c III d III e III f III g III h or III i wherein Rof W is H and all other variables are as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention W is OR i.e. Formula III a III b III c III d III e III f III g III h or III i wherein Rof W is C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis aryl e.g. phenyl wherein said aryl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis C Caryl substituted with C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis carbocyclyl e.g. C Ccarbocyclyl or heterocyclyl e.g. 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl wherein said carbocyclyl or heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention X is C Ccarbocyclyl wherein said carbocyclyl is substituted with C Y R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention X is H CRR R CRR NRR CRR OR CRR C O NRR CRR NRC O R CRR S O NRR and CRR NRS O R wherein q is 2 p is 0 1 or 2 Rand Rare independently H or C Calkyl Rof Xis H C Calkyl or aryl and Rof Xis H C Calkyl aryl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl and wherein said alkyl aryl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl of Rand Ris optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis H CH R or CH NRS O R wherein q is 2 p is 0 or 1 Rof Xis H C Calkyl or aryl and Rof Xis C Calkyl and wherein said alkyl or aryl of Rand Ris optionally and independently substituted with one or more ORgroups wherein each Ris independently H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis CH Rwherein p is 0 or 1 and Rof Xis carbocyclyl e.g. Ccarbocyclyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis H methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl benzyl CH p methoxyphenyl CH OH CH CH OH CHOH or CH N CHOH SOCH and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ethyl or cyclopropyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined in any one of the embodiments above.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes compounds described in EXAMPLES 5 19 and compounds below

The azaindolyl compounds of Formula I are prepared according to the procedures described below in the schemes and examples or by methods known in the art. The starting materials and various intermediates may be obtained from commercial sources prepared from commercially available compounds or prepared using well known synthetic methods for example those described in WO02 06213 WO 03 077855 and WO03 077914 .

For example 5 azaindoles of Formula I b II b or III b may be prepared using the synthetic routes outlined in Scheme 1.

Compounds of formula IV may be prepared using published methods described in the literature. They may be reacted with glycine or a glycine derivative such as N methyl glycine methyl or ethyl ester in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride in a suitable solvent such as N N dimethylformamide or 1 2 dimethoxyethane at a temperature of from 50 C. to room temperature to obtain compounds of formula VI . Alternatively compounds of general formula IV may be reacted with glycine or a glycine derivative such as glycine methyl or ethyl ester in the presence of a base such as sodium hydrogencarbonate in a solvent such as ethanol at a temperature of from 20 C. to 120 C. to provide intermediates of formula V . Intermediates of formula V may then be cyclised in the presence of a base such as sodium ethoxide in a solvent such as ethanol at a temperature of from 40 C. to 120 C. to provide compounds of formula VI .

Compounds of formula VI may be converted to compounds of formula VII by reaction with a halogenating agent such as phosphorus oxybromide neat or in a suitable solvent such as toluene at a temperature of from room temperature to 140 C. Alternatively compounds of formula VI may be reacted with nonafluorobutane sulphonyl fluoride in the presence of a base such as diisopropylethylamine and a catalyst such as N N dimethyl 4 aminopyridine in a solvent such as dichloromethane at room temperature with N phenyltrifluoromethanesulfonimide in the presence of a base such as diisopropylethylamine in a suitable solvent such as 1 2 dimethoxyethane at a temperature from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent. In addition compounds of formula VI may be treated with trifluoromethanesulphonic acid anhydride in the presence of a base such as pyridine in a solvent such as dichloromethane at a temperature of from 20 C. to ambient temperature.

Compounds of formula IX may be obtained from compounds of formula VII by reaction with an aniline of formula VIII incorporating appropriate substituents R1 in the presence of a catalyst such as tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 or palladium acetate a base such as potassium phosphate sodium tert butoxide 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.1 undec 7 ene or cesium carbonate a ligand such as 9 9 dimethyl 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino xanthene 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 N N dimethylamino biphenyl 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy biphenyl or tri butyl phosphine in a suitable solvent such as toluene 1 2 dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran or dioxane at a temperature of from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent or under microwave irradiation at a temperature of from 70 C. to 150 C. Compounds of formula X can be obtained from compounds of formula IX by reaction with a base such as sodium hydroxide in a protic solvent such as ethanol or methanol at a temperature of from room temperature up to reflux temperature.

Compounds of formula X can be reacted with a functionalised hydroxylamine of formula XII commercially available or prepared according to Scheme 5 or an amine and a suitable coupling agent such as O 7 aza benzo triazol 1 yl N N N N tetra methyluronium hexafluoro phosphate N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride or N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in the presence of N hydroxy 1 2 3 benzotriazole in the presence of a suitable base such as diisopropylethylamine or triethylamine in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran N N dimethylformamide or dichloromethane at a temperature of about room temperature to obtain the compounds of formula XI . Alternatively compounds of formula XI can be obtained directly from compounds of formula IX by reaction with an amine or hydroxylamine DNHR in the presence of a Lewis acid such as trimethyl aluminium in a solvent such as DCM at a temperature of from room temperature up to reflux temperature.

The substituent Rof compounds of general formula XI or any of the intermediates VI VII IX X may be manipulated at any stage of the synthesis. For example compounds of general formula IX where R3 H may be alkylated with an alkyl halide such as iodomethane using a base such as potassium carbonate in a solvent such as DMF at a temperature of from 0 C. to 120 C. In a further example compounds of general formula VII where Ris H may be appended with protecting groups such as SEM trimethylsilyl ethoxy using an alkylating agent such as SEM chloride in a solvent such as DMF in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride. Additionally compounds of general formula XI where R3 is a protecting group such as SEM may be de protected using a reagent such as tetrabutylammonium fluoride in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 20 C. to 50 C. to provide compounds of formula XI where R3 is H.

Compounds of general formula IV may be prepared using published methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula IV may be reacted with amines such as methylamine in a solvent such as ethanol at a temperature of from 0 C. to reflux to give intermediates of general formula XV . Compounds of formula XV may be alkylated with alkyl acetates such as bromo tert butyl acetate in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride in a solvent such as DMF to give compounds of general formula XVI . Cyclisation of compounds of general formula XVI to give compounds of general formula VI may be achieved using a base such as sodium tert butoxide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 40 C. to reflux. Alternatively compounds of general formula VI may be prepared directly from compounds of general formula XV using more than one equivalent of base and prolonged reaction times or higher temperatures.

Compounds of formula XX may be prepared using published methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula XXII may be obtained from compounds of formula XX using methods described for the preparation of compounds of formula VI from compounds of formula IV in Scheme 1. Compounds of formula IX may be obtained from compounds of formula XXII by reaction with compounds of formula XXIII incorporating appropriate substituents R1 using methods described for the preparation of compounds of formula IX from compounds of formula VII in Scheme 1. Alternatively compounds of formula IX may be obtained from compounds of formula XXII by reaction with compounds of formula XXIV incorporating appropriate substituents R1 in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or lithium hexamethyldisilazane in a suitable solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or N N dimethylformamide at a temperature of from room temperature to 150 C.

Compounds of general formula XXV may be prepared using published methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula XXV may be reacted with amines such as methylamine in a solvent such as ethanol at a temperature of from 0 C. to reflux to give intermediates of general formula XXVI . Compounds of formula XXVI may be alkylated with alkyl acetates such as bromo tert butyl acetate in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride in a solvent such as DMF to give compounds of general formula XXVII . Compounds of formula XXVII may be cyclised to give compounds of general formula XXII using a base such as sodium tert butoxide in a solvent such as THF at a temperature of from 40 C. to reflux. Alternatively compounds of general formula XXII may be prepared directly from compounds of general formula XXVI using more than one equivalent of base and prolonged reaction times or higher temperatures. Pyrrolo 2 3 d pyridazines of formula I h II h and III h and pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridazines of formula I g II g and III g may be prepared using the synthetic routes outlined in Scheme 5.

Compounds of formula L may be prepared according to methods described in the literature. Compounds of formula LVI may be obtained from compounds of formula L using similar methods to the ones described for the preparation of compounds of formula XI from compounds of formula IV as shown in Scheme 1. Alternatively compounds of formula LIV may be prepared according to Scheme 6.

Compounds of formula LVIII may be prepared using published methods described in the literature. Compounds of general formula LIV can be prepared from compounds of formula LIX using methods described above for the preparation of compounds of formula IX from compounds of formula XX in Scheme 3.

Hydroxylamines of formula XII may be prepared using methods described in the literature or the synthetic route outlined in Scheme 7.

Primary or secondary alcohols of general formula XXX may be prepared using methods described in the literature. They may be reacted with N hydroxy phthalimide using a phosphine such as triphenyl phosphine and coupling reagent such as diethyl azodicarboxylate to provide compounds of general formula XXXII .

Compounds of general formula XXXII may be deprotected using hydrazine or methyl hydrazine to provide hydroxylamines of general formula XII a . Compounds of formula XII a may be further modified by reductive amination with aldehydes or ketones using a reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxy borohydride sodium cyanoborohydride or borane pyridine in a solvent such as dichloroethane at a temperature of from ambient temperature to reflux. In addition compounds of formula XII a may be further modified by alkylation with an alkyl halide in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a solvent such as dichloromethane to provide hydroxylamines of general formula XII b .

Anilines of general formula XXXIX used in cross coupling reactions described above may be prepared by using methods described in the literature or according to Scheme 8.

Substituted 4 chloro nitro benzene may be reacted with hexamethyldisilane in a solvent such as xylene using a catalyst such as tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium at a temperature of from room temperature to reflux. The nitro group may be reduced using methods described in the literature such as reaction under an atmosphere of hydrogen at a pressure of from 1 to 5 atmospheres in the presence of a catalyst such as palladium on carbon and in a solvent such as ethanol or ethyl acetate at room temperature.

Trifluoromethanesulfonyl esters of general formula XL used in cross coupling reactions described above may be prepared by using methods described in the literature or according to Scheme 9.

Halo phenols of general structure XLI may be reacted with two equivalents of alkylithium reagents such as n butyl lithium in a solvent such as THF followed by quenching with trialkylsilyl halide such as trimethylsilyl chloride to give trialkylsilyl phenols XLII . Trialkylsilyl phenols may be further reacted using literature procedures to give trifluoromethane sulfonates or nonaflates of general structure XL .

It will be appreciated that where appropriate functional groups exist compounds of formula I II III or any intermediates used in their preparation may be further derivatised by one or more standard synthetic methods employing substitution oxidation reduction or cleavage reactions. Particular substitution approaches include conventional alkylation arylation heteroarylation acylation sulfonylation halogenation nitration formylation and coupling procedures.

For example aryl bromide or chloride groups may be converted to aryl iodides using a Finkelstein reaction employing an iodide source such as sodium iodide a catalyst such as copper iodide and a ligand such as trans N N dimethyl 1 2 cyclohexane diamine in a solvent such as 1 4 dioxane and heating the reaction mixture at reflux temperature. Aryl trialkylsilanes may be converted to aryl iodides by treating the silane with an iodide source such as iodine monochloride in a solvent such as dichloromethane with or without Lewis acid such as silver tetrafluoroborate at a temperature from 40 C. to reflux.

In a further example indole NH groups may be alkylated employing an alkyl halide such as benzyl bromide a base such as potassium carbonate and a solvent such as DMF at a temperature of from room temperature to 80 C.

In a further example primary amine NH groups may be alkylated using a reductive alkylation process employing an aldehyde or a ketone and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example 1 2 dichloroethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature. Secondary amine NH groups may be similarly alkylated employing an aldehyde.

In a further example primary amine or secondary amine groups may be converted into amide groups NHCOR or NRCOR by acylation. Acylation may be achieved by reaction with an appropriate acid chloride in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane or by reaction with an appropriate carboxylic acid in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Similarly amine groups may be converted into sulphonamide groups NHSOR or NR SOR groups by reaction with an appropriate sulphonyl chloride in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Primary or secondary amine groups can be converted into urea groups NHCONR R or NRCONR R by reaction with an appropriate isocyanate in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

An amine NH may be obtained by reduction of a nitro NO group for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon in a solvent such as ethyl acetate or an alcohol e.g. methanol. Alternatively the transformation may be carried out by chemical reduction using for example a metal e.g. tin or iron in the presence of an acid such as hydrochloric acid.

In a further example amine CHNH groups may be obtained by reduction of nitriles CN for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon or Raney nickel in a solvent such as an ether e.g. a cyclic ether such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature from 78 C. to the reflux temperature of the solvent.

In a further example amine NH groups may be obtained from carboxylic acid groups COH by conversion to the corresponding acyl azide CON Curtius rearrangement and hydrolysis of the resultant isocyanate N C O .

Aldehyde groups CHO may be converted to amine groups CHNR R by reductive amination employing an amine and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example dichloromethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature.

In a further example aldehyde groups may be converted into alkenyl groups CH CHR by the use of a Wittig or Wadsworth Emmons reaction using an appropriate phosphorane or phosphonate under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art.

Aldehyde groups may be obtained by reduction of ester groups such as COEt or nitriles CN using diisobutylaluminium hydride in a suitable solvent such as toluene. Alternatively aldehyde groups may be obtained by the oxidation of alcohol groups using any suitable oxidising agent known to those skilled in the art.

Ester groups COR may be converted into the corresponding acid group COH by acid or base catalused hydrolysis depending on the nature of R. If R is t butyl acid catalysed hydrolysis can be achieved for example by treatment with an organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid in an aqueous solvent or by treatment with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid in an aqueous solvent.

Carboxylic acid groups COH may be converted into amides CONHR or CONR R by reaction with an appropriate amine in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such as HATU in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

In a further example carboxylic acids may be homologated by one carbon i.e. COH to CHCOH by conversion to the corresponding acid chloride COCl followed by Arndt Eistert synthesis.

In a further example OH groups may be generated from the corresponding ester e.g. COR or aldehyde CHO by reduction using for example a complex metal hydride such as lithium aluminium hydride in diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran or sodium borohydride in a solvent such as methanol. Alternatively an alcohol may be prepared by reduction of the corresponding acid COH using for example lithium aluminium hydride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or by using borane in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran.

Alcohol groups may be converted into leaving groups such as halogen atoms or sulfonyloxy groups such as an alkylsulfonyloxy e.g. trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy or arylsulfonyloxy e.g. p toluenesulfonyloxy group using conditions known to those skilled in the art. For example an alcohol may be reacted with thioyl chloride in a halogenated hydrocarbon e.g. dichloromethane to yield the corresponding chloride. A base e.g. triethylamine may also be used in the reaction.

In another example alcohol phenol or amide groups may be alkylated by coupling a phenol or amide with an alcohol in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran in the presence of a phosphine e.g. triphenylphosphine and an activator such as diethyl diisopropyl or dimethylazodicarboxylate. Alternatively alkylation may be achieved by deprotonation using a suitable base e.g. sodium hydride followed by subsequent addition of an alkylating agent such as an alkyl halide.

Aromatic halogen substituents in the compounds may be subjected to halogen metal exchange by treatment with a base for example a lithium base such as n butyl or t butyl lithium optionally at a low temperature e.g. around 78 C. in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran and then quenched with an electrophile to introduce a desired substituent. Thus for example a formyl group may be introduced by using N N dimethylformamide as the electrophile. Aromatic halogen substituents may alternatively be subjected to metal e.g. palladium or copper catalysed reactions to introduce for example acid ester cyano amide aryl heteraryl alkenyl alkynyl thio or amino substituents. Suitable procedures which may be employed include those described by Heck Suzuki Stille Buchwald or Hartwig.

Aromatic halogen substituents may also undergo nucleophilic displacement following reaction with an appropriate nucleophile such as an amine or an alcohol. Advantageously such a reaction may be carried out at elevated temperature in the presence of microwave irradiation.

The compounds of the present invention are tested for their capacity to inhibit MEK activity and activation primary assays and for their biological effects on growing cells secondary assays as described below. The compounds having ICof less than 5 M more preferably less than 5 M even more preferably less than 1 M most preferably less than 0.5 M in the MEK activity assay of Example 1a or 1b ICof less than 5 M more preferably less than 0.1 M most preferably less than 0.01 M in the MEK activation assay of Example 2 ECof less than 10 M more preferably less than 5 M most preferably less than 0.5 M in the cell proliferation assay of Example 3 and or ECof less than 10 M more preferably less than 1 M most preferably less than 0.1 M in the ERK phosphorylation assay of Example 4 are useful as MEK inhibitors.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic and or a second anti inflammatory agent such as those described herein. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for treating an autoimmune disease destructive bone disorder proliferative disorders infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease or neurodegenerative disease in a mammal e.g. human . Examples of such diseases disorders include but are not limited to diabetes and diabetic complications diabetic retinopathy retinopathy of prematurity age related macular degeneration hemangioma idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rhinitis and atopic dermatitis renal disease and renal failure polycystic kidney disease congestive heart failure neurofibromatosis organ transplant rejection cachexia stroke septic shock heart failure organ transplant rejection Alzheimer s disease chronic or neuropathic pain and viral infections such as HIV hepatitis B virus HBV human papilloma virus HPV cytomegalovirus CMV and Epstein Barr virus EBV . Chronic pain for purposes of the present invention includes but is not limited to idiopathic pain and pain associated with chronic alcoholism vitamin deficiency uremia hypothyroidism inflammation arthritis and post operative pain. Neuropathic pain is associated with numerous conditions which include but are not limited to inflammation postoperative pain phantom limb pain burn pain gout trigeminal neuralgia acute herpetic and postherpetic pain causalgia diabetic neuropathy plexus avulsion neuroma vasculitis viral infection crush injury constriction injury tissue injury limb amputation arthritis pain and nerve injury between the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system.

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for treating pancreatitis or kidney disease including proliferative glomerulonephritis and diabetes induced renal disease in a mammal e.g. human .

The present compounds and compositions are also useful for the prevention of blastocyte implantation in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof. Also included in the present invention is a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present invention also includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent such as those described herein.

The present invention includes a method of treating an autoimmune disease destructive bone disorder proliferative disorders infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease or neurodegenerative disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent. Examples of such diseases disorders include but are not limited to diabetes and diabetic complications diabetic retinopathy retinopathy of prematurity age related macular degeneration hemangioma idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis rhinitis and atopic dermatitis renal disease and renal failure polycystic kidney disease congestive heart failure neurofibromatosis organ transplant rejection cachexia stroke septic shock heart failure organ transplant rejection Alzheimer s disease chronic or neuropathic pain and viral infections such as HIV hepatitis B virus HBV human papilloma virus HPV cytomegalovirus CMV and Epstein Barr virus EBV .

The present invention includes a method of treating pancreatitis or kidney disease including proliferative glomerulonephritis and diabetes induced renal disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method for preventing of blastocyte implantation in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof and optionally further comprising a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

It is also believed that the compounds of the present invention can render abnormal cells more sensitive to treatment with radiation for purposes of killing and or inhibiting the growth of such cells. Accordingly this invention further relates to a method for sensitizing abnormal cells in a mammal e.g. human to treatment with radiation which comprises administering to said mammal an amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof which amount is effective is sensitizing abnormal cells to treatment with radiation.

Administration of the compounds of the present invention hereinafter the active compound s can be effected by any method that enables delivery of the compounds to the site of action. These methods include oral routes intraduodenal routes parenteral injection including intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular intravascular or infusion topical inhalation and rectal administration.

The amount of the active compound administered will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day preferably about 1 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For a 70 kg human this would amount to about 0.05 to 7 g day preferably about 0.05 to about 2.5 g day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The active compound may be applied as a sole therapy or in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic or anti inflammatory agents for example those described herein. Such conjoint treatment may be achieved by way of the simultaneous sequential or separate dosing of the individual components of treatment.

The pharmaceutical composition may for example be in a form suitable for oral administration as a tablet capsule pill powder sustained release formulations solution suspension for parenteral injection as a sterile solution suspension or emulsion for topical administration as an ointment or cream or for rectal administration as a suppository. The pharmaceutical composition may be in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and a compound according to the invention as an active ingredient. In addition it may include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc.

Exemplary parenteral administration forms include solutions or suspensions of active compounds in sterile aqueous solutions for example aqueous propylene glycol or dextrose solutions. Such dosage forms can be suitably buffered if desired.

Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers water and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefore include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof.

Methods of preparing various pharmaceutical compositions with a specific amount of active compound are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art. For examples see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Ester Pa. 15.sup.th Edition 1975 .

High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods.

Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector. Uses a Higgins Clipeus 5 micron C18 100 3.0 mm column and a 1 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 14 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 5 minutes.

Method B Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector and 100 position autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna C18 2 30 4.6 mm column and a 2 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was 95 solvent A and 5 solvent B for the first 0.50 minutes followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Method C Experiments performed on an Agilent Technologies liquid chromatography mass spectrometer linked to an Agilent Technologies Series 1200 LC system with diode array detector using a Zorbax 1.8 micron SB C18 30 2.1 mm column with a 1.5 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent B followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over 1.5 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute.

Method D Experiments performed on a PE Sciex API 150 EX quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Shimadzu LC 10AD LC system with diode array detector and 225 position autosampler using a Kromasil C18 50 4.6 mm column and a 3 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was a gradient starting with 100 water with 0.05 TFA solvent A and 0 acetonitrile with 0.0375 TFA solvent B ramping up to 10 solvent A and 90 solvent B over 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Microwave experiments were carried out using a Personal Chemistry Emrys Initiator or Optimizer which uses a single mode resonator and dynamic field tuning both of which give reproducibility and control. Temperature from 40 250 C. can be achieved and pressures of up to 20 bar can be reached.

Method E Experiments performed on an Agilent Technologies liquid chromatography mass spectrometer linked to an Agilent Technologies Series 1200 LC system with diode array detector using a Zorbax 1.8 micron SB C18 30 2.1 mm column with a 0.6 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent B followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over 9.0 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute.

Constitutively activated human mutant MEK1 expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity at a final concentration in the kinase assay of 62.5 nM.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 50 M ATP using recombinant GST ERK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF reagents supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Thr202 Tyr204 ERK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. The anti phospho antibody recognises ERK1 dually phosphorylated on Thr202 and Tyr204. When both antibodies are bound to ERK1 i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multiwell fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Constitutively activated human mutant MEK1 expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity at a final concentration in the kinase assay of 15 nM.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 50 M ATP using recombinant GST ERK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF reagents supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Thr202 Tyr204 ERK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. These are used at a final concentration of 4 g ml and 0.84 g ml respectively. The anti phospho antibody recognises ERK1 dually phosphorylated on Thr202 and Tyr204. When both antibodies are bound to ERK1 i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multiwell fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Compounds of Examples 5 19 23 34 36 65 and 68 71 exhibited an ICof less than 5 M in the assay described in either Example 1a or 1b.

Constitutively activated bRaf mutant expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 200 M ATP using recombinant GST MEK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF and reagents are supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Ser217 Ser221 MEK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. The anti phospho antibody recognises MEK dually phosphorylated on Ser217 and Ser221 or singly phosphorylated on Ser217. When both antibodies are bound to MEK i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multi well fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 hours they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 72 h and an equal volume of CellTiter Glo reagent Promega is added to each well. This lyses the cells and generates a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP released and therefore proportional to the number of cells in the well that can be detected using a multi well luminometer.

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

In this assay compounds of Examples 5 8 10 11 13 15 16 23 27 31 33 36 49 54 56 59 61 and 63 65 exhibited an ECof less than 10 M in either cell line.

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 h they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 2 h or 24 h fixed with formaldehyde 2 final and permeabilised with methanol. Following blocking with TBST 3 BSA fixed cells are incubated with primary antibody anti phospho ERK from rabbit over night at 4 C. Cells are incubated with Propidium Iodide DNA fluorescent dye and detection of cellular p ERK is performed using an anti rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to the fluorescent Alexa Fluor 488 dye Molecular probes . The fluorescence is analysed using the Acumen Explorer TTP Labtech a laser scanning microplate cytometer and the Alexa Fluor 488 signal is normalised to the PI signal proportional to cell number .

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves a signal half way between the baseline and the maximum response. ECvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

In this assay compounds of Examples 5 8 10 11 13 15 17 23 31 33 34 36 50 54 56 59 and 61 65 exhibited an ECof less than 10 M in either cell line.

A suspension of 4 chloro nicotinic acid 3.0 g 19.0 mmol in thionyl chloride 50 ml was heated under reflux for 90 minutes. After cooling to ambient temperature the solution was concentrated to dryness and then azeotroped with toluene 2 50 ml to afford a solid. The resultant solid was added in portions to a cooled 0 C. solution of ethanol 25 ml and DIPEA 15 ml . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours then concentrated in vacuo before water 75 ml was added. The solution was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 75 ml and the combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate then concentrated to give the title compound as a brown oil 3.3 g 94 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.03 s 1H 7.58 d J 5.4 Hz 1H 7.41 dd J 5.4 Hz 0.5 Hz 1H 4.45 q J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.43 t J 7.3 Hz 3H .

To a stirred solution of ethyl 4 chloro nicotinate 2.05 g 11.0 mmol and sarcosine ethyl ester hydrochloride 4.75 g 30.9 mmol in anhydrous DMF 40 ml under an argon atmosphere was added sodium hydride 59.6 mmol 60 in dispersion oil 2.39 g in portions over 20 minutes. On complete addition the mixture was heated at 80 C. for 1.5 hours. Potassium carbonate 1.52 g 11.0 mmol was then added and the mixture heated for a further 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then quenched by the addition of water 50 ml and subsequently concentrated to provide a residue. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 100 ml and water 100 ml . The layers were separated the aqueous phase was cooled to 0 C. and the pH adjusted to 7 by the addition of concentrated HCl. The aqueous phase was aged overnight and the resulting precipitate was filtered washed with water and dried under vacuum at 60 C. to give a white solid 700 mg 15 . LCMS method B R 1.82 min M H 221.

To a stirred solution of 3 hydroxy 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 695 mg 3.16 mmol and DMAP 19 mg 0.16 mmol in DCM 10 ml at 0 C. was added DIPEA 1.35 ml 7.58 mmol and nonafluorobutylsulfonyl fluoride 0.74 ml 4.10 mmol . After 10 minutes the reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred for an additional 4.5 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM 50 ml and washed with water 30 ml . The organic phase was isolated dried over sodium sulphate then filtered and evaporated to give a yellow oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane ethyl acetate gradient 100 0 to 60 40 to afford the title compound as a colourless oil which crystallised on standing 1.43 g 90 . LCMS method B R 3.28 min M H 505.

A degassed solution of 1 methyl 3 nonafluorobutane 1 sulfonyloxy 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 800 mg 1.58 mmol 4 bromo 2 fluoroaniline 360 mg 1.89 mmol Pddba 144 mg 0.16 mmol Xantphos 182 mg 0.32 mmol and DBU 538 l 3.79 mmol in toluene 8 ml was subjected to microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then diluted with ethyl acetate 100 ml . The resultant solution was washed with water 50 ml dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give a solid residue. The solid residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane ethyl acetate gradient 100 0 to 60 40 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 210 mg 34 . LCMS method B R 2.33 min M H 392 394.

4 Chloronicotinonitrile 45.0 g 324 mmol was suspended in water 250 mL and 41 aqueous methylamine solution 250 mL . The resultant mixture was heated with stirring at 90 C. for 1 hour before the mixture was cooled to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with water followed by brine then dried MgSO and evaporated to provide a residue. Trituration of the residue with diethyl ether gave the title compound 40.4 g 93 as a white solid. 1H NMR CDCl 2.98 3H d J 5.1 Hz 5.20 1H br s 6.53 1H d J 6.13 Hz 8.35 1H d J 6.13 Hz 8.43 1H s .

Sodium hydride 9.0 g 60 dispersion 225 mmol was suspended in DMF 150 mL and cooled to 0 5 C. A solution of 4 methylamino nicotinonitrile 20.0 g 150 mmol in DMF 100 mL was added dropwise over ca. 20 minutes and the resulting mixture stirred cold for 30 minutes and then treated with a solution of ethyl bromoacetate 34.0 g 225 mmol in DMF 50 mL . The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature over 1 hour. The mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and the aqueous further extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 brine dried MgSO and evaporated. Trituration of the resultant residue with ethyl acetate gave the title compound 12.2 g 37 as a yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 1.44 3H t J 7.1 Hz 3.88 3H s 4.43 2H q J 7.1 Hz 5.09 2H br s 7.10 1H dd 1H J 6.1 1.0 Hz 8.35 1H d J 6.1 Hz 8.88 1H d J 1.0 Hz .

3 Amino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 25 g 114 mmol trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 47.0 g 149 mmol Pd dba 5.0 g 5.5 mmol Xantphos 6.5 g 11.3 mmol and cesium carbonate 74.5 g 228 mmol were suspended in toluene 500 mL and the flask evacuated and purged with argon. The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 18 hours. The mixture was cooled and filtered through Celite washing through with toluene. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo and the residue subjected to flash chromatography SiO gradient 0 10 MeOH in DCM to give the title compound 37.4 g 85 as a yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 8.79 1H d J 1.1 Hz 8.39 1H d J 6.1 Hz 7.60 1H s br 7.25 0.5H s 7.22 1H s 7.21 0.5H d J 1.0 Hz 7.14 7.10 2H m 4.42 2H q J 7.0 Hz 3.97 3H s 1.44 3H t J 7.0 Hz 0.26 9H s .

A solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 37.0 g 96.0 mmol in CHCl 500 mL was cooled to 0 5 C. and treated dropwise with iodine monochloride solution 211 mL 1M in CHCl . The mixture was allowed to warm and stirring continued for 1 hour. The solution was washed with aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution dried MgSO and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated with ethyl acetate to give the title compound 21.8 g 52 as a yellow solid. LCMS method B R 2.48 min M H 440.

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 88 mg 0.20 mmol 1M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 220 l and IMS 3 ml was heated at 65 C. for 2 hours. After cooling to ambient temperature the solvent was evaporated the resultant residue was dissolved in water and the pH of the solution was adjusted to 7 by the addition of 1N HCl solution. The precipitated solid was collected by filtration washed with water 2 mL then diethyl ether 2 mL and left to air dry to provide the title compound as a yellow solid 80 mg 92 . LCMS method B R 2.11 min M H 412.

Sodium hydroxide 39 mg 1.0 mmol was added to a suspension of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 400 mg 0.91 mmol in IMS 6 ml and the reaction heated at 60 C. for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to yield the title compound as a yellow solid 439 mg 100 . LCMS method B R 2.19 min M Na H 412.

A degassed solution of 1 methyl 3 nonafluorobutane 1 sulfonyloxy 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 500 mg 0.99 mmol 4 bromo 2 chloroaniline 246 mg 1.19 mmol Pddba 91 mg 0.10 mmol Xantphos 114 mg 0.20 mmol and DBU 352 l 2.48 mmol in toluene 8 ml was subjected to microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then diluted with ethyl acetate 100 ml . The resultant solution was washed with water 30 ml dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give an oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 90 10 to 0 100 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 140 mg 35 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.75 d J 1.0 Hz 1H 8.41 d J 6.1 Hz 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.54 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 7.19 7.27 m 2H 6.94 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.44 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.99 s 3H 1.44 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Ethyl glycinate hydrochloride 60.5 g 432 mmol and sodium hydrogen carbonate 25.5 g 302 mmol were suspended in 95 EtOH and the mixture was heated at reflux for 1 hour. 4 Chloronicotinonitrile 6.0 g 43.2 mmol was then added and the mixture was heated at reflux for a further 5 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the resultant residue was diluted with water 60 mL and extracted with DCM 2 50 mL . The organic phases were combined then washed with water 20 mL followed by brine 20 mL dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a brown oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH gradient 100 1 to 95 5 . Appropriate fractions were collected concentrated to dryness and the residue recrystallised EtOAc cyclohexane to give the title compound as a white solid 3.99 g 45 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.50 s 1H 8.38 dd J 6.0 Hz 0.6 Hz 1H 6.44 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 5.62 br t 1H 4.30 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 4.02 d J 5.3 Hz 2H 1.33 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

To a solution of ethyl 4 3 cyanopyridine glycinate 2.47 g 12.1 mmol under nitrogen in EtOH 60 mL was added sodium ethoxide 0.90 g 13.3 mmol and the mixture was heated at reflux for 1 hour. The mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature then quenched by the addition of water 3 mL and saturated ammonium chloride solution 5 mL . The solvent was concentrated in vacuo to provide a residue that was diluted with water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 40 mL . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give the title compound as a brown solid 1.35 g 55 . LCMS method B R 0.61 min M H 206.

A degassed solution of 3 amino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 200 mg 0.98 mmol trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 324 mg 1.02 mmol Pddba 44 mg 0.048 mmol Xantphos 56 mg 0.098 mmol and CsCO 636 mg 1.95 mmol in toluene 6 ml was subjected to microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then diluted with EtOAc 100 ml . The resultant solution was washed with water 60 ml dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give a black oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC cyclohexane EtOAc gradient 90 10 to 20 80 to provide the title compound as a brown solid 152 mg 42 . LCMS method B R 2.65 min M H 372.

To a cooled 10 C. solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 140 mg 0.343 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added iodine monochloride 1M in DCM 0.90 mL dropwise over 10 minutes. On complete addition the mixture was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 20 minutes then quenched by the addition of saturated sodium thiosulphate solution 3 mL . The solution was partitioned between DCM 50 mL and water 10 mL . The organic layer was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a yellow solid. The solid was triturated with diethyl ether filtered and left to air dry to provide the title compound as a yellow solid 148 mg 85 . LCMS method B R 2.37 min M H 426.

A solution of 4 chloronicotinonitrile 1.00 g 7.22 mmol 4 methoxybenzylamine 1.03 ml 7.94 mmol and potassium carbonate 1.20 g 8.66 mmol in propan 2 ol 20 mL was heated under reflux for 18 hours. The solvent was concentrated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between EtOAc 150 mL and water 50 mL . The organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a brown oil. The oil was pre adsorbed onto H MN and purified by flash column chromatography Si PPC cyclohexane EtOAc gradient 80 20 to 0 100 to provide the title compound as a white solid 1.61 g 93 . 1H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.46 d J 0.7 Hz 1H 8.30 dd J 6.1 Hz 0.7 Hz 1H 7.24 dd J 8.6 Hz 2.1 Hz 2H 6.92 dd J 8.6 Hz 2.1 Hz 2H 6.55 d J 6.1 Hz 1H 5.35 br t 1H 4.40 d J 5.6 Hz 2H 3.82 s 3H .

A cooled 0 C. solution of 4 4 methoxybenzylamino 3 cyanopyridine 800 mg 3.34 mmol and methyl bromoacetate 0.37 mL 4.02 mmol in DMF was treated with sodium hydride 60 w w in oil 161 mg 4.02 mmol portionwise over 15 minutes. The mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and stirred for 15 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated ammonium chloride solution 10 mL and the solvent evaporated. The resultant residue was partitioned between EtOAc 100 mL water 50 mL and saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL . The organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a brown oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH gradient 100 0 to 85 15 to provide the title compound as an off white solid 401 mg 39 . LCMS method B R 1.33 min M H 312.

3 Amino 1 4 methoxy benzyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 200 mg 0.64 mmol was dissolved in toluene 6 mL to which CsCO 417 mg 1.28 mmol and trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 263 mg 0.83 mmol were added and the mixture degassed with nitrogen before addition of Pddba 29 mg 0.032 mmol and Xantphos 37 mg 0.064 mmol . The mixture was heated at 105 C. for 18 hours allowed to cool to ambient temperature then partitioned between EtOAc 50 mL and water 30 mL . The organic layer was isolated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a black oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography on silica Si PPC cyclohexane EtOAc gradient 90 10 to 40 60 to provide the title compound as a pale brown solid 269 mg 88 . LCMS method B R 2.81 min M H 478.

Iodine monochloride 1M in DCM 1.13 mL was added dropwise over 10 minutes to a cooled 10 C. solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1 4 methoxy benzyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 269 mg 0.56 mmol in DCM 5 mL . The mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and stirred for 20 minutes then quenched by the addition of saturated sodium thiosulphate solution 1 mL . The solution was partitioned between DCM 30 mL and water 20 mL the organic layer was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give an orange oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography on silica Si PPC cyclohexane EtOAc gradient 90 10 to 40 60 to provide the title compound as a yellow solid 240 mg 80 . LCMS method B R 2.59 min M H 532.

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 4 methoxy benzyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 196 mg 0.37 mmol 1M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 443 l and IMS 4 ml was heated at 65 C. for 2.5 hours. After cooling to ambient temperature the solvent was evaporated the residue was dissolved in water and the pH of the solution was adjusted to 7 by the addition of 1N HCl solution. The precipitated solid was collected by filtration washed with water 5 mL ethyl acetate 2 mL and pentane 2 mL then left to air dry to provide the title compound as a yellow solid 170 mg 89 . LCMS method A R 7.22 min M H 518.

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 210 mg 0.49 mmol potassium carbonate 82 mg 0.59 mmol and ethyl iodide 44 l 0.54 mmol in DMF was heated at 55 C. for 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature then evaporated. The residue was partitioned between EtOAc 50 mL and water 15 mL . The organic phase was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give an oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography on silica Si PPC pentane EtOAc gradient 100 0 to 40 60 to provide the title compound as a yellow solid 80 mg 36 . LCMS method B R 2.52 min M H 454.

A mixture of 3 2 Fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 234 mg 0.55 mmol potassium carbonate 91 mg 0.66 mg sodium iodide 103 mg 0.69 mmol and 1 bromo 2 methoxy ethane 0.057 mL 0.61 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred a 90 C. for 2 days. It was cooled to room temperature diluted with water and extracted into ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated then washed with water followed by brine then dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a residue which was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC ether pentane gradient 20 80 to 50 50 to provide the title compound as a yellow oil 44 mg 16 . LCMS method B R 2.56 min M H 483.

A mixture of ethanolamine 0.60 mL 10.0 mmol 4 chloronicotinonitrile 1.38 g 10.0 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 1.74 mL 10.0 mmol in isopropanol was heated at reflux for 2.5 hours. It was cooled to room temperature and loaded on to a 50 g SCX 2 cartridge preconditioned with methanol. The cartridge was eluted with methanol and then with a 2M solution of ammonia in methanol. Collecting appropriate fractions followed by evaporation of solvents gave the title compound as a beige solid 1.20 g 74 . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 8.40 s 1H 8.21 d J 6.3 Hz 1H 6.94 bs 1H 6.77 d J 6.3 Hz 1H 4.84 bs 1H 3.55 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 3.31 dt J 6.0 Hz 6.0 Hz 2H .

To a solution of 4 2 hydroxy ethylamino nicotinonitrile 500 mg 3.07 mmol and imidazole 250 mg 3.68 mmol in DMF 15 mL was added triisopropylsilyl chloride 0.723 mL 3.37 mmol . The reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water the organic layer isolated and washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The resultant residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane ether gradient 50 50 to 30 70 to provide the title compound as a white solid 753 mg 77 . LCMS method B R 2.92 min M H 320.

To a solution of 4 2 triisopropylsilanyloxy ethylamino nicotinonitrile 6.4 g 20 mmol in DMF at 0 C. under an inert atmosphere was added sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 880 mg 22 mmol in a stepwise manner over a 45 min period. The temperature was kept below 110 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. Methyl bromoacetate 2.0 mL 22 mmol was added to the reaction mixture which was allowed to reach room temperature and was stirred for 18 hours. Aqueous ammonium chloride 1M sltn. ca 100 mL was added to the reaction mixture which extracted into ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated washed with water then brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give residue. The residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC EtOAc MeOH gradient 100 0 to 90 10 to provide the title compound as a brown solid 1.19 g 15 . LCMS method B R 2.79 min M H 392.

A degassed solution of 3 amino 1 2 triisopropylsilanyloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 1.41 g 3.61 mmol trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 1.48 g 4.69 mmol Pddba 165 mg 0.18 mmol Xantphos 208 mg 0.36 mmol and CsCO 2.35 g 7.21 mmol in toluene 30 ml was heated to reflux then stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a pad of celite. The resultant solution was concentrated in vacuo to give a black oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane ether gradient 100 0 to 0 100 to provide the title compound as a yellow oil 1.78 g 88 . LCMS method B R 3.76 min M H 558.

To a cooled 0 C. solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1 2 triisopropylsilanyloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 1.78 g 3.20 mmol in DCM 35 mL was added iodine monochloride 1M in DCM 6.40 mL dropwise over 10 minutes. The mixture was stirred for 1 hour then quenched by the addition of saturated sodium thiosulphate solution. The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and an saturated solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate. The organic layer was separated washed with water then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a residue. The residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC cyclohexane ethylacetate gradient 100 0 to 0 100 to provide the title compound as a yellow oil 1.52 g 79 . LCMS method B R 3.47 min M H 612.

To a solution of diisopropylamine 10.73 ml 75.9 mmol in THF 60 ml at 40 C. was added n butyllithium 47.45 ml 75.9 mmol 1.6M in hexanes and the solution was stirred for 15 min at 40 C. before cooling to 70 C. A solution of 3 4 dichloropyridine 10.7 g 72.3 mmol in THF 30 ml was added dropwise to maintain the temperature below 65 C. The reaction was stirred at 70 C. for 2 hours before the addition of DMF 6.74 ml 86.8 mmol . The reaction was then stirred at 40 C. for 1 hours and then allowed to warm to 5 C. before the careful addition of saturated ammonium chloride solution 50 ml with rapid stirring over 3 min. The mixture was then partitioned between saturated ammonium chloride 150 ml and dichloromethane 150 ml and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 100 ml and the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate then concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PPC dichloromethane ethyl acetate gradient 100 0 to 94 6 afforded the title compound as white waxy solid 8.01 g 63 .

A solution of 4 5 dichloropyridine 3 carbaldehyde 8.01 g 45.51 mmol in ethanol 50 ml was added to a rapidly stirred solution of hydroxylamine hydrochloride 3.48 g 50.06 mmol in water 50 ml . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 45 min then partitioned between ethyl acetate 100 ml and water 100 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 ml and the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate before being concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a white solid 8.3 g 96 .

To a suspension of 4 5 dichloropyridine 3 carbaldehyde oxime 7.84 g 41.05 mmol in dichloromethane 150 ml was added carbonyl diimidazole 7.99 g 49.26 mmol . The mixture was then heated to reflux for 1.5 hours before cooling then washing with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 70 ml and water 70 ml . The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PPC cyclohexane dichloromethane gradient 20 80 to 0 100 afforded the title compound as a white solid 0.53 g 72 . LCMS method B R 2.86 min no ion present.

4 5 Dichloronicotinonitrile 500 mg 2.89 mmol was suspended in 41 aqueous methylamine solution 5 mL . The resultant mixture was heated with stirring up to 60 C. over ca. 30 min. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water followed by brine then dried MgSO and evaporated to provide the title compound 340 mg 70 as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 8.39 1H s 8.29 1H s 5.50 1H s br 3.43 3H d J 5.5 Hz .

5 Chloro 4 methylamino nicotinonitrile 340 mg 2.02 mmol was dissolved in DMF 5 mL and the solution cooled in an ice bath. This solution was treated portionwise with sodium hydride 120 mg 60 in oil 3.03 mmol . The ice bath was removed and stirring continued for 15 minutes at room temperature before treating the mixture with ethyl bromoacetate 508 mg 3.03 mmol . The reaction mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was isolated washed with water followed by brine then dried MgSO and evaporated to give a solid. Trituration of the resultant solid with diethyl ether gave the title compound 308 mg 60 as a cream solid. H NMR CDCl 8.90 1H s 8.26 1H s 8.26 1H s br 4.43 2H q J 7.0 Hz 4.28 3H s 1.44 3H t J 7.0 Hz 

A degassed solution of 3 amino 7 chloro 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 300 mg 1.18 mmol trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 486 mg 1.53 mmol Pddba 54 mg 0.06 mmol Xantphos 68 mg 0.118 mmol and CsCO 770 mg 2.36 mmol in toluene 10 ml was heated to reflux then stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then filtered through a pad of Celite washing with toluene. The resultant solution was concentrated in vacuo to give an oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography SiO cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 95 5 to 90 10 to provide the title compound as a gum 370 mg 74 . H NMR CDCl 8.64 1H s 8.31 1H s 7.47 1H s br 7.23 1H dd J 1.5 110. Hz 7.10 1H dd J 1.0 8.0 Hz 6.97 1H t J 8.0 Hz 4.42 2H q J 7.0 Hz 4.35 3H s 1.43 3H t J 7.0 Hz 0.29 s 9H .

To a cooled 0 C. solution of 7 chloro 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 3.25 g 7.74 mmol in DCM 50 mL was added iodine monochloride 1M in DCM 17.0 mL dropwise over 15 minutes. The mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature then partitioned between ethyl acetate and a saturated solution of sodium thiosulphate. The organic layer was separated washed with water then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a residue. The residue was triturated with diethyl ether to provide the title compound as a yellow solid 2.62 g 73 . LCMS method B R 3.95 min M H 474.

A mixture of 4 5 dichloronicotinonitrile 3.0 g 17.3 mmol glycine ethyl ester hydrochloride 7.2 g 52.0 mmol and sodium hydrogen carbonate 9.06 g 104 mmol in IMS 50 ml was heated at reflux for 16 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water the organic layer washed with water then brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated in diethyl ether to give the title compound as a buff solid 3.58 g 86 . H NMR CDCl 8.80 1H s 8.36 1H s 4.97 2H s br 4.44 2H q J 7.0 Hz 1.44 3H t J 7.0 Hz .

To a solution of 3 amino 7 chloro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 1.0 g 4.18 mmol and trifluoromethanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 1.45 g 4.59 mmol in toluene 18 ml was added cesium carbonate 1.90 g 5.85 mmol before the mixture was degassed. Pddba 382 mg 0.418 mmol and Xantphos 482 mg 0.835 mmol were then added and the vessel was flushed with argon. The resultant reaction mixture was heated at 150 C. under microwave irradiation for 31 min cooled and filtered through Hyflo washing with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate the organic layer dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PPC dichloromethane ethyl acetate gradient 1 0 to 5 1 afforded the title compound as a pale yellow solid 0.84 g 50 . LCMS method B R 3.75 min M H 406.

To a solution of 7 chloro 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 0.91 g 2.25 mmol in dichloromethane 20 ml at 10 C. was added iodine monochloride 4.95 ml 4.95 mmol 1M solution in dichloromethane and the resultant mixture was stirred at 10 C. to 0 C. for 2 h. A saturated solution of sodium thiosulfate 25 ml was added and the mixture was poured into saturated sodium thiosulfate 40 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 35 ml and the combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated in dichloromethane cyclohexane 1 4 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 0.87 g 84 . LCMS method B R 3.17 min M H 460.

To a cooled 78 C. solution of 3 fluoro 4 chloro pyridine 11.0 g 84 mmol in THF under nitrogen was added lithium diisopropylamide 1.8 M solution 47 mL 84 mmol dropwise and the resultant solution stirred at 70 to 80 C. for 18 hours. DMF 7.68 g 1.25 eq. was added dropwise and stirring continued at 78 C. for 30 minutes before adding the reaction mixture to ice 2M HCl. The solution was extracted with diethyl ether and the organic layer back extracted with 2M HCl the two aqueous solutions held separately. The aqueous extracts were each treated with hydroxylamine hydrochloride 8.76 g 126 mmol and adjusted to pH 5 with potassium carbonate. After stirring for 1 hour the mixtures were extracted with ethyl acetate 2 the combined organic extracts dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a tan solid 11.07 g 76 . LCMS method B R 2.49 min M H 175.

To a suspension of 4 chloro 5 fluoro pyridine 3 carbaldehyde oxime 6.8 g 39.0 mmol in dichloromethane 150 ml was added carbonyl diimidazole 9.5 g 58.5 mmol . The mixture was then heated at reflux for 30 minutes before cooling to room temperature before being washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate followed by water. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue triturated in diethyl ether cyclohexane to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid 4.05 g 79 . H NMR CDCl 8.71 1H d J 0.4 Hz 8.70 1H s .

4 Chloro 5 fluoro nicotinonitrile 3.5 g 22.4 mmol was suspended in 41 aqueous methylamine solution 35 mL . The resultant mixture was heated with stirring at 80 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue triturated in diethyl ether to provide the title compound 2.35 g 70 as a white solid. 1H NMR CDCl 8.29 1H s 8.18 1H d J 4.0 Hz 5.04 1H s br 3.34 3H dd J 2.2 5.5 Hz .

5 Fluoro 4 methylamino nicotinonitrile 2.35 g 15 mmol was dissolved in DMF 50 mL and the solution cooled in an ice bath. This solution was treated portionwise with sodium hydride 900 mg 60 in oil 22.5 mmol . The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirring continued for 15 minutes at room temperature. Ethyl bromoacetate 2.49 ml 22.5 mmol was added and the mixture stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature The reaction mixture was quenched with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was isolated dried NaSO and evaporated to give a solid. Trituration of the resultant solid with methanol gave the title compound 1.85 g 52 as a yellow solid. LCMS method B R 2.09 min M H 238.

A degassed solution of 3 amino 7 fluoro 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 900 mg 3.8 mmol trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 1.44 mg 4.56 mmol Pddba 174 mg 0.19 mmol Xantphos 220 mg 0.38 mmol and CsCO 2.48 g 7.6 mmol in toluene 10 ml was heated at 150 C. for 20 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then filtered through a pad of Celite washing with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 30 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to provide the title compound as a yellow orange solid 2.12 g 69 . LCMS method B R 4.15 min M H 404.

To a cooled 0 C. solution of 7 fluoro 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 1.0 g 2.48 mmol in DCM 25 mL was added iodine monochloride 1M in DCM 4.96 mmol 4.96 mL dropwise. The mixture was stirred cold for 30 minutes then quenched by the addition of a saturated solution of sodium thiosulphate. The organic layer was separated washed with a saturated solution of sodium thiosulphate then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a residue. The residue was triturated with diethyl ether to provide the title compound as a beige solid 805 mg 71 . LCMS method B R 3.52 min M H 458.

 3 Bromo propoxy triisopropyl silane 209 mg 0.71 mmol was dissolved in DMF 5 ml and 3 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 250 mg 0.59 mmol was added followed by cesium carbonate 250 mg 0.77 mmol . The mixture was heated at 80 C. under nitrogen for 3 hours then allowed to cool diluted with water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with 20 aqueous lithium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate then concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PPC dichloromethane methanol gradient 1 0 to 99 1 gave the title compound as a yellow oil 109 mg 44 . LCMS method B R3.41 M H 640.

A mixture of 4 chloro 5 fluoro nicotinonitrile 3.5 g 22.4 mmol glycine ethyl ester hydrochloride 9.4 g 67.1 mmol and sodium hydrogencarbonate 11.3 g 134.2 mmol in IMS 60 mL was stirred at reflux for 18 hours. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature and partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated and washed with water and brine dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated to give a solid which was triturated in diethyl ether. The mixture was aged at room temperature for 18 hours and the precipitate was filtered off and dried under vacuum at 60 C. to give the title compound as a beige solid 2.29 g 46 . LCMS method B R 1.50 min M H 224.

A degassed solution of 3 amino 7 fluoro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 1.0 g 4.48 mmol trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 1.6 g 4.93 mmol Pddba 205 mg 0.22 mmol Xantphos 258 mg 0.45 mmol and cesium carbonate 2.0 g 6.28 mmol in toluene 20 ml was subjected to microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through a pad of Celite . The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give a residue that was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane diethyl ether gradient 100 0 to 0 100 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 505 mg 29 . LCMS method B R 3.39 min M H 390.

A solution of 7 fluoro 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 500 mg 1.28 mmol in CHCl 15 mL was cooled to 0 5 C. and treated dropwise with iodine monochloride solution 2.6 mL 1M in CHCl . The mixture was stirred at 0 5 C. for one hour and then quenched by addition of a saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution 10 mL . The mixture was diluted with water and dichloromethane. The precipitate formed was filtered off washed with diethyl ether and dried under vacuum at 50 C. to give the title compound as a yellow solid 218 mg 38 . LCMS method B R 2.87 min M H 444.

4 Bromo 3 chloro benzenesulfonyl chloride 3.78 g 13.0 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 40 ml and DMF 1.0 ml was added. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. under argon and triphenylphosphine 10.26 g 39.0 mmol was added slowly then the mixture was allowed to return to room temperature with stirring over 16 h. Hydrochloric acid 1 M 75 ml was added and the layers were separated. The organic layer was concentrated and the residue suspended in 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide 75 ml and filtered. The filtrate was extracted with EtO 2 then neutralised 1 M HCl 75 ml . The mixture was then extracted EtO 3 and the combined organic layers were dried NaSO and concentrated to afford the title compound as a colourless oil 0.94 g 32 . H NMR CDCl400 MHz 3.49 1H s 7.02 1H dd J 8.35 2.24 Hz 7.38 1H d J 2.18 Hz 7.45 1H d J 8.35 Hz .

4 Bromo 3 chloro benzenethiol 0.94 g 4.21 mmol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml and cooled to 0 C. under argon. Sodium hydride 0.19 g 4.63 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes then iodomethane 0.28 ml 4.42 mmol was added. The mixture was allowed to warm stirring for 30 minutes then the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 2 and the combined organic layers were dried MgSO and concentrated. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PCC pentane afforded the title compound as a colourless oil 0.65 g 65 . H NMR CDCl400 MHz 2.47 3H s 6.99 1H dd J 8.45 2.26 Hz 7.30 1H d J 2.25 Hz 7.48 1H d J 8.45 Hz .

3 Amino 1 methyl 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 200 mg 0.91 mmol and 1 bromo 2 chloro 4 methylsulfanyl benzene 304 mg 1.28 mmol were dissolved in toluene 5 ml and Pd dba 42 mg 0.05 mmol was added followed by Xantphos 53 mg 0.09 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 386 mg 1.82 mmol . The mixture was degassed and purged with argon then stirred under argon at 120 C. for 16 hours. After cooling the mixture was filtered through celite then concentrated. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PCC ether pentane gradient 1 4 to 1 0 gave the title compound as a yellow oil 300 mg 88 . LCMS method B R 2.64 M H 376 378.

4 Bromo 3 fluoro benzenesulfonyl chloride 324 l 2.19 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of triphenylphosphine 1.73 g 6.58 mmol in a mixture of dimethylformamide 125 l and dichloromethane 5 ml . The solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours then 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid 5 ml was added and the layers were separated. The organic layer was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue taken up in 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide 10 ml . The resulting suspension was filtered through Celite and the filtrate washed with ether 10 ml 3 then neutralised by addition of 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid 10 ml . The solution was extracted with ether 10 ml 3 and the combined organic extracts were dried NaSO then concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound as a colourless oil 225 mg 50 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.47 1H dd J 8.4 7.5 Hz 7.06 1H dd J 8.9 2.2 Hz 6.93 1H ddd J 8.4 2.1 0.7 Hz 3.54 1H br s .

A solution of 4 bromo 3 fluoro benzenethiol 225 mg 1.09 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 3 ml was cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 52 mg 1.31 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. Iodomethane 78 l 1.25 mmol was then added and the mixture was allowed to return to room temperature with stirring over 20 minutes. Dichloromethane 10 ml was added and the reaction was quenched with 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid. The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with water dried MgSO then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane diethyl ether gradient 100 0 to 90 10 to afford the title compound as a bright yellow oil 208 mg 86 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.43 1H dd J 8.4 7.2 7.00 1H dd J 9.4 2.3 6.91 1H ddd J 8.4 2.1 0.7 2.48 3H s .

A degassed solution of 3 amino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 0.610 g 3 mmol 1 bromo 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl benzene 1.13 g 5.1 mmol Pddba 0.14 g 0.15 mmol Xantphos 0.17 g 0.3 mmol and cesium carbonate 1.94 g 6.0 mmol in toluene 20 ml was subjected to microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through a pad of Celite . The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give a residue that was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC ethyl acetate DCM gradient 0 100 to 40 100 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 0.25 g 24 . LCMS method B R 2.45 min M H 346.

To a stirred solution of 4 6 dichloro pyridazine 3 carboxylic acid methyl ester 2.9 g 14 mmol and sarcosine ethyl ester hydrochloride 2.15 g 14 mmol in acetonitrile 75 ml was added triethylamine 4.9 mL 35 mmol . The resultant reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before adding further triethylamine 4.9 mL 35 mmol and heating the reaction mixture at 80 C. for 18 hours. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue treated with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 the combined organic extracts dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give a solid. The solid was triturated in hot methanol to give the title compound as a yellow solid 1.6 g 45 . LCMS method B R 2.64 min M H 256.

A suspension of 10 wt. palladium on carbon 150 mg in ethanol was added to a de gassed suspension of 3 chloro 7 hydroxy 5 methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridazine 6 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 1.6 g 6.26 mmol in ethanol 150 mL the atmosphere evacuated and back filled with nitrogen re evacuated and back filled with hydrogen and the mixture stirred under hydrogen 1 atmosphere for 3 days at room temperature. The resultant mixture was filtered through Celite with DCM methanol washings the filtrate concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow solid 1.4 g quantitative . LCMS method B R 1.53 1.65 min M H 222.

A suspension of 7 hydroxy 5 methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridazine 6 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 360 mg 1.63 mmol PhN Tf 873 mg 2.45 mmol DIPEA 1.14 mL 6.5 mmol in ethyleneglycol dimethyl ether 15 ml was heated at 90 C. for 3 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and water the aqueous layer separated and extracted further with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 100 to 50 50 ethyl acetate DCM to give the title compound as a tan solid 248 mg 43 . LCMS method B R 3.26 min M H 354.

A degassed solution of 7 trifluoromethanesulfonyloxy 5 methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridazine 6 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 495 mg 1.4 mmol 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsiliyl aniline 333 mg 1.82 mmol Pddba 64 mg 5 mol Xantphos 81 mg 10 mol and cesium carbonate 912 mg 2.8 mmol in toluene 15 ml was heated at 120 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through Celite and the solution concentrated in vacuo to give a solid residue. The solid residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 100 0 to 40 60 to afford the title compound as an oily residue 242 mg 45 . LCMS method B R 3.60 min M H 387.

To a cooled 0 C. solution 7 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 5 methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridazine 6 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 242 mg 0.626 mmol in DCM 6 mL was added iodine monochloride 1.25 mL 1M in DCM 17.0 mL dropwise over 1 minute. The mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature stirred for 1 hour then partitioned between ethyl acetate and a saturated solution of sodium thiosulfate. The organic layer was separated washed with water dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a residue. The residue was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC 1 1 DCM ethyl acetate eluent to provide the title compound as an orange solid 242 g 88 . LCMS method B R 3.03 min M H 441.

A mixture of 4 chloro 3 cyanopyridine 5.0 g 36.1 mmol cyclopropylamine 5.0 mL 72.2 mmol 2.0 eq and potassium carbonate 5.2 g 37.9 mmol 1.05 eq in isopropyl alcohol 130 mL was stirred at 60 C. under Nfor 20 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was absorbed onto silica and purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min 10 100 ethyl acetate in hexane . Trituration from hexane afforded the title compound as an off white solid 4.55 g 79.3 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.43 d J 0.55 Hz 1H 8.29 dd J 6.10 Hz 1H 7.55 s 1H 7.00 6.88 m 1H 2.54 to 2.40 m 1H 0.89 0.69 m 2H 0.68 0.48 m 2H LC MS method C M H 160.2 R 0.28 min.

To a stirred solution of 4 cyclopropylamino nicotinonitrile 2.15 g 13.51 mmol and methyl bromoacetate 1.53 mL 16.21 mmol 1.2 eq at 0 C. was added sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 1.35 g 33.78 mmol 2.5 eq portion wise over 15 min. After the evolution of hydrogen gas had subsided the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature and stirred under Nfor 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl solution 10 mL and poured into EtOAc. The biphasic layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with 50 aq. brine sat. NaHCOsolution and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was absorbed onto silica and purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min 0 to 25 MeOH in EtOAc to give the desired product as an orange solid 1.57 g 50.3 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 9.01 d J 1.0 Hz 1H 8.24 t J 5.1 Hz 1H 7.29 dd J 6.0 Hz J 1.0 Hz 1H 6.34 6.09 br s 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.35 m 1H 1.14 1.03 m 2H 0.80 0.70 m 2H LC MS method D M H 232.0 R 1.31 min.

To a degassed suspension of 3 amino 1 cyclopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 215.0 mg 0.93 mmol and trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenyl ester 323.5 mg 1.02 mmol 1.1 eq in anhydrous toluene 6.2 mL was added Pddba 85.2 mg 0.09 mmol 0.1 eq Xantphos 107.6 mg 0.186 mmol 0.2 eq and CsCO 606.0 mg 1.86 mmol 2.0 eq . The reaction mixture was degassed with bubbling nitrogen for 10 minutes and stirred at 105 C. under Nfor 17 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate 150 ml . The mixture was then filtered through a pad of Celite . The celite pad was rinsed with EtOAc 2 50 mL and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue was then purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min 25 to 100 EtOAc in hexane to afford the title compound as a yellow foam 265 mg 71.7 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.52 s 1H 8.33 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.86 s 1H 7.55 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.29 d J 11.6 Hz 1H 7.13 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.90 s 1H 3.82 s 3H 3.57 3.46 m 1H 1.27 1.03 m 2H 0.96 0.71 m 2H 0.23 s 9H LC MS method D M H 398.2 R 2.69 min.

To a stirred solution of 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 265.0 mg 0.67 mmol in anhydrous DCM at 10 C. was added iodine monochloride 1.0 M in DCM 0.80 mL 0.80 mmol 1.2 eq . The reaction mixture was then stirred at ambient temperature for 15 minutes then quenched with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution 3 mL . The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution water and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue was purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min 25 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the desired product as a yellow solid 159.0 mg 52.9 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.53 s 1H 8.33 dd J 6.0 Hz J 1 Hz 1H 7.89 s 1H 7.67 7.46 m 2H 7.32 m 1H 6.66 dd J 13.20 Hz J 4.6 Hz 1H 3.81 d J 1.0 Hz 3H 3.61 3.41 m 1H 1.22 1.10 m 2H 0.90 0.79 m 2H LC MS method C M H 452.0 R 0.79 min.

In a high pressure tube was placed 3 amino 1 cyclopropyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 307.6 mg 1.33 mmol 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamine 500.0 mg 2.26 mmol 1.7 eq 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene 115.5 mg 0.20 mmol 1.5 eq tris dibenzylideneacetone di palladium 0 91.4 mg 0.10 mmol 0.75 eq and potassium phosphate 564.7 mg 2.6 mmol 2.0 eq in degassed anhydrous toluene 21 mL . The tube was sealed tightly and the reaction mixture was heated to 100 C. for 17 h and cooled to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 100 ml and then filtered through a pad of Celite . The celite pad was rinsed with EtOAc 2 50 mL and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue was then purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min 25 to 100 EtOAc in hexane to afford the title compound as an orange glassy solid 339.6 mg 68.7 . H NMR 500 MHz MeOD ppm 8.36 s 1H 8.24 d J 6.13 Hz 1H 7.59 d J 6.14 Hz 1H 7.14 d J 11.72 Hz 1H 7.08 6.93 m 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.59 3.47 m 1H 2.47 s 3H 1.25 1.21 m 2H 0.92 0.89 m 2H LC MS method C M H 371.8 R 0.80 min.

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 70.0 mg 0.164 mmol propargyl bromide 80 in xylene 45.5 L 0.41 mmol 2.5 eq DBU 3.2 mL and anhydrous THF 3.2 mL was stirred at 50 C. under Nfor 1 h and then at ambient temperature for 17 h. The solvent was evaporated and the resultant residue was diluted with ethyl acetate 75 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 20 mL followed by brine 20 mL dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a brown oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min Hexane EtOAc gradient 100 1 to 1 100 . Crystallization from EtOAc hexane gave the desired compound as a yellow solid 34.5 mg 45.3 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 8.74 s 1H 8.44 d J 5.87 Hz 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.45 dd J 10.26 Hz 2.0 Hz 1H 7.37 7.27 m 2H 6.87 t J 9.20 Hz 1H 5.29 s 2H 4.46 q J 7.14 Hz 2H 2.29 t J 2.47 Hz 1H 1.49 1.40 t J 7.20 Hz 3H LC MS method D M H 464.0 R 2.40 min.

A solution of 4 chloro but 2 yn 1 ol 2.16 g 20.66 mmol 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 2.83 mL 30.99 mmol 1.5 eq and pyridinium p toluenesulfonate 528.0 mg 0.21 mmol 0.10 eq in anhydrous dichloromethane 50 mL was stirred at room temperature under Nfor 17 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give 3.80 g 97.4 of the desired product as clear oil. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 4.80 t J 4.0 Hz 1H 4.39 4.22 m 2H 4.19 t J 2.0 Hz 2H 3.88 3.80 m 1H 3.57 3.51 m 1H 1.89 1.70 m 2H 1.68 1.50 m 4H .

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 200.0 mg 0.47 mmol 2 4 chloro but 2 ynyloxy tetrahydro pyran 133.0 mg 0.70 mmol 1.5 eq and potassium carbonate 78.0 mg 0.56 mmol 1.2 eq in anhydrous DMF 4.7 mL was stirred at 75 C. under Nfor 20 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with 50 brine 20 mL brine 20 mL dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give a brown oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min Hexane EtOAc gradient 75 25 to 1 100 . Appropriate fractions were collected to give the desired compound as an orange solid 99.1 mg 36.5 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 8.58 d J 0.89 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 6.16 Hz 1H 7.62 dd J 6.19 1.20 Hz 1H 7.52 dd J 10.60 6.0 Hz 1H 7.36 ddd J 8.49 1.60 1.20 Hz 1H 6.80 t J 8.71 Hz 1H 5.44 t J 1.84 Hz 2H 4.67 t J 3.59 Hz 1H 4.41 q J 7.13 Hz 2H 4.19 t J 1.57 Hz 2H 3.78 3.68 m 1H 3.43 3.34 m 1H 1.75 d J 9.12 Hz 1H 1.68 1.41 m 5H 1.37 t J 7.13 Hz 3H LC MS method C M H 578.0 R 0.926 min.

A solution 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenol 75 g 0.39 mol in THF 750 mL was cooled to 78 C. and treated dropwise with n butyllithium 471 mL 2.5M solution over 1 hour keeping the internal temperature below 60 C. After stirring for a further 30 minutes the mixture was treated with chlorotrimethylsilane 128 g 1.18 mol in THF 150 mL over 30 minutes keeping the internal temperature below 60 C. After the addition the mixture was allowed to warm to 0 C. over 40 minutes. The mixture was poured into 1M hydrochloric acid and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with diethyl ether 2 and the combined organic layers were washed with water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to give a colourless liquid. The liquid was dissolved in THF 750 mL and treated with tetrabutylammonium fluoride 393 mL 1M solution in THF . After 5 minutes the solution was poured into water and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with diethyl ether 2 and the combined organic layers washed with water brine dried MgSO and evaporated to a straw coloured oil. The oil was dissolved in DCM cyclohexane 1 1 500 mL and stirred with silica 15 g and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to give the title compound as an oil which solidified on standing 72 g 100 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.04 6.92 2H m 6.92 6.76 1H m and 0.077 9H s .

2 Fluoro 4 trimethylsilanyl phenol 78.5 g 0.43 mol was dissolved in CHCl 500 mL and pyridine 101 g 1.28 mmol added. The solution was cooled to 0 5 C. and treated dropwise with trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 126.3 g 0.45 mol in CHCl 100 mL over 30 minutes and the resulting mixture was stirred cold for a further 15 minutes. The yellow solution was poured into 2M hydrochloric acid and the layers separated. The organic layer was washed with water aqueous NaHCOsolution brine dried MgSO and solvent evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in cyclohexane and stirred with flash silica and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield the title compound as a colourless liquid 123 g 91 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.35 1H m 7.30 7.27 2H m and 0.29 9H s .

4 Chloro 2 fluoronitrobenzene 6.0 g 34.2 mmol was added to a 100 mL round bottom flask followed by hexamethyldisilane 18.9 g 129.0 mmol 26.4 mL and xylene 13 mL . The mixture was magnetically stirred while nitrogen was bubbled into the solution via glass pipette for 10 minutes or until the entire solid had dissolved.

Tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 1.0 g 0.9 mmol was added the flask fitted with a reflux condenser and the reaction was heated at reflux for 24 48 hours while a slow stream of nitrogen was passed through a rubber septum placed in the top of the condenser. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl ether 40 mL and filtered through a plug of silica gel 30 mL of SiO ethyl ether slurry packed into a 60 mL fritted glass funnel . The filter cake was washed with ethyl ether 60 mL and the combined organics were concentrated in vacuo to an orange oil which was purified by flash chromatography 250 mL silica gel 98 1 1 hexane CHCl ethyl ether yielding the 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilylnitrobenzene 5.45 g 75 as a yellow orange oil.

The 2 fluoro 4 trimethylsilylnitrobenzene 5.45 g 25.6 mmol was then dissolved in ethanol 100 mL transferred to a Parr shaker bottle flushed with nitrogen then charged with 10 Pd C 0.4 g . The reaction mixture was hydrogenated for 1 h on the Parr apparatus 45 psi H and then filtered through a plug of Celite. The filter cake was washed with ethanol and the combined filtrates were concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by flash chromatography 250 mL silica gel 95 5 hexane ethyl ether to afford the title compound as a tan oil 4.31 g 92 .

3 2 Fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester potassium carbonate 1.2 eq and the appropriate alkyl iodide alkyl bromide or benzyl chloride 1.2 eq in DMF was heated at 55 C. On completion of the reaction the mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature then evaporated. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with water before the organic layer was isolated dried over sodium sulfate then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was then subjected to purification.

Formaldehyde 37 w w in water 80 L 1.0 mmol was added to a cooled 0 C. solution of O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 105 mg 1.0 mmol in ethanol 1 mL . The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes before addition of pyridiniumpara toluene sulfonate 250 mg 1.0 mmol and sodium cyanoborohydride 70 mg 1.1 mmol . The resultant suspension was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and stirred for 20 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 25 mL then washed with brine 20 mL . The organic extract was dried MgSO filtered and evaporated to provide the desired product as an oil 84 mg 71 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 6.44 6.55 m 1H 4.98 s 1H 4.16 4.24 m 1H 3.98 4.06 m 1H 3.82 3.96 m 4H 2.59 s 3H .

tert Butyl dimethyl chlorosilane 0.5 g 3.21 mmol was added to a stirred solution of isoxazolidin 4 ol hydrochloride 0.40 g 3.18 mmol in DMF 3 mL . The mixture was left to stir at ambient temperature for 2.5 hours before the solvent was evaporated and the resultant residue partitioned between ethyl acetate 50 mL and water 20 mL . The organic phase was separated and washed with water 3 20 mL then brine 20 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated to provide the desired product as a colourless oil 0.62 g 96 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.52 s 1H 4.60 4.65 m 1H 3.45 3.62 m 1H 3.80 4.05 m 1H 2.80 3.05 m 2H 0.80 s 9H 0.08 s 6H .

 R 3 Hydroxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 1.37 g 7.31 mmol was dissolved in THF 20 mL then 2 hydroxy isoindole 1 3 dione 1.19 g 7.31 mmol and triphenyl phosphine 1.92 g 7.31 mmol were added. Diisopropyl azodicarboxylate 1.33 mL 8.04 mmol was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 18 hours then the solvent was evaporated. The resultant residue was purified by flash column chromatography Si PPC DCM EtOAc gradient 100 0 to 80 20 to provide the title compound as a colourless oil 1.43 g 59 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.86 m 2H 7.77 m 2H 4.94 5.02 m 1H 3.66 3.84 m 2H 3.50 3.65 m 2H 2.24 2.32 m 1H 1.93 2.05 m 1H 1.49 s 9H .

Methyl hydrazine 0.23 mL 4.40 mmol was added dropwise over 5 minutes to a solution of S 3 1 3 dioxo 1 3 dihydro isoindol 2 yloxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 1.43 g 4.3 mmol in DCM 12 mL . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour then evaporated. The resultant residue was suspended in diethyl ether 10 mL and the solid was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to provide the title compound as a colourless oil 0.86 g 99 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.24 4.26 m 1H 3.60 3.66 m 1H 3.44 3.54 m 1H 3.30 3.42 m 2H 2.03 2.12 m 1H 1.84 1.96 m 1H 1.46 s 9H .

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 90 mg 0.21 mmol 1N aqueous NaOH solution 0.22 ml 0.22 mmol and ethanol 3 ml were heated at 65 C. for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and then azeotroped with toluene 2 5 ml to give a solid residue. The solid residue was dissolved in anhydrous THF 5 ml and O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 49 mg 0.41 mmol EDCI 49 mg 0.26 mmol HOBt 39 mg 0.29 mmol and DIPEA 109 l 0.62 mmol were added. After stirring for 19 hours the solvent was evaporated and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 30 ml and water 20 ml . The organic layer was isolated dried over sodium sulphate then filtered and evaporated to give a yellow oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane ethyl acetate gradient 50 50 to 0 100 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 71 mg 65 . LCMS method B R 2.87 min M H 542.

3 2 Fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 71 mg 0.13 mmol was dissolved in methanol 0.5 ml and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was then washed with methanol 15 ml and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2M NHin MeOH. The eluant was collected and concentrated to give a residue. The residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC dichloromethane MeOH gradient 100 0 to 90 10 followed by reversed phase HPLC Phenomenex Luna 5 phenyl hexyl 0.1 TFA in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 100 0 to 40 60 to afford the title compound as a white solid 12 mg 15 . LCMS method A R 4.83 min M H 501. H NMR d MeOH 400 MHz 8.61 s 1H 8.30 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.59 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.44 dd J 11.0 Hz 1.8 Hz 1H 7.18 7.23 m 1H 6.37 dd J 9.0 Hz 9.0 Hz 1H 3.99 s 3H 3.89 3.95 m 1H 3.77 3.86 m 2H 3.47 3.59 m 2H .

A mixture of ethyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 100 mg 0.23 mmol 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.25 ml and MeOH 3.0 ml was heated at 65 C. for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and azeotroped with toluene 2 2 ml to give a solid residue. The solid residue was dissolved in anhydrous THF 4 ml and O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 47 mg 0.46 mmol EDCI 55 mg 0.29 mmol HOBt 43 mg 0.32 mmol and DIPEA 119 l 0.68 mmol were added. After stirring for 72 hours at ambient temperature the mixture was evaporated and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 30 ml and water 20 ml . The organic layer was isolated dried over sodium sulphate then filtered and evaporated to give a yellow oil. The oil was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC dichloromethane methanol gradient 100 0 to 90 10 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 64 mg 57 . LCMS method B R 2.20 min M H 497.

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 64 mg 0.13 mmol 1N aqueous HCl 0.39 mL and MeOH 4.0 ml was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. Sodium hydrogen carbonate 32 mg 0.39 mmol was added stirring was continued for 10 minutes then the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was absorbed onto HM N and purified by flash chromatography Si PPC dichloromethane MeOH gradient 100 0 to 85 15 followed by reversed phase HPLC Phenomenex Luna 5 phenyl hexyl 0.1 TFA in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 95 5 to 50 50 to afford the title compound as a yellow solid 16 mg 27 . LCMS method A R 5.75 min M H 471. H NMR d MeOH 400 MHz 8.55 s 1H 8.24 d J 6.2 Hz 1H 7.52 d J 6.2 Hz 1H 7.39 dd J 10.8 Hz 1.8 Hz 1H 7.14 7.19 m 1H 6.35 dd J 8.7 Hz 8.7 Hz 1H 3.94 s 3H 3.88 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 3.64 t J 4.5 Hz 2H .

To a suspension of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 2 triisopropylsilanyloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 132 mg 0.22 mmol in ethanol 3 mL was added a 1M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.23 mL 0.23 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. stirred for 1 hour cooled to room temperature concentrated and azeotroped with toluene. The residue was suspended in DMF and ammonium chloride 24 mg 0.44 mmol diisopropylethylamine 0.15 mL 0.88 mmol then HATU 167 mg 0.44 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours before being partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was isolated and washed with water then a saturated solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and then brine dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow solid 105 mg 80 . LCMS method B R 3.03 min M H 597.

To a suspension of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 2 triisopropylsilanyloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid amide 100 mg 0.17 mmol in methanol was added a 1M solution of HCl 0.34 mL 0.34 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux and stirred for 1 hour. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was passed through a 5 g SCX 2 cartridge eluting with MeOH then 2M solution of ammonia in MeOH. The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue that was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC MeOH DCM gradient 0 100 to 20 80 to provide the title compound as an off white solid 40 mg 53 . LCMS method A R 5.78 min M H 441. H NMR DMSO D 3.70 2H q J 5.3 Hz 4.53 2H t J 5.3 Hz 4.94 1H t J 5.3 Hz 6.19 1H t J 8.9 Hz 7.20 1H m 7.53 1H dd J 11.0 2.0 Hz 7.60 1H dd J 6.0 1.0 Hz 7.72 1H d J 2.0 Hz 7.81 2H s br 8.28 1H d J 6.0 Hz 8.52 1H d J 1.0 Hz .

To a suspension of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 2 triisopropylsilanyloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 90 mg 0.15 mmol in ethanol 2 mL was added a 1M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.15 mL 0.15 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. stirred for 1 hour cooled to room temperature concentrated and azeotroped with toluene. The resultant residue was suspended in THF to which O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 31 mg 0.30 mmol EDCI 37 mg 0.19 mmol HOBt 30 mg 0.22 mmol and DIPEA 105 l 0.60 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h then concentrated to give a residue which was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC cyclohexane EtOAc gradient 100 0 to 0 100 . The title compound was obtained as a yellow solid 58 mg 57 . LCMS method B R 3.24 min M H 683.

To a solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 2 triisopropylsilanyloxy ethyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 58 mg 0.085 mmol in THF 2 mL was added a 1M solution of tert butylammonium fluoride in THF 0.1 mL 0.1 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and passed through a 5 g SCX 2 cartridge eluting with MeOH then 2M solution of ammonia in MeOH. The appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue that was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC MeOH DCM gradient 0 100 to 30 70 . The title compound was obtained as a yellow solid 16 mg 38 . LCMS method A R 5.13 min M H 501. H NMR CDOD 3.70 2H m 3.90 2H t J 5.3 Hz 3.94 2H m 4.60 2H t J 5.3 Hz 6.42 1H t J 8.9 Hz 7.2 1H m 7.43 1H dd J 10.9 1.9 Hz 7.60 1H dd J 6.2 0.9 Hz 8.26 1H d J 6.2 Hz 8.58 1H d J 0.9 Hz .

3 2 Fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid sodium salt 0.20 g 0.46 mmol O S 2 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy propyl hydroxylamine 95 mg 0.46 mmol HOBT 69 mg 0.51 mmol EDCI 97 mg 0.51 mmol and DIPEA 0.08 ml 0.46 mmol were suspended in a mixture of THF 3 ml and DMF 1 ml . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue dissolved in ethyl acetate 20 ml and washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 20 ml . The aqueous layer was isolated and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 ml and the combined organic layers dried washed with brine and dried over magnesium sulfate before concentrating in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography SiO gradient 1 3 methanol in dichloromethane to yield the title compound as an off white solid 171 mg 62 . LCMS method B R 3.00 min M H 599.

TBAF 1.71 ml 1N solution in THF 1.71 mmol was added to a solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid S 2 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy propoxy amide 171 mg 0.29 mmol in THF 3 ml and the reaction heated at 45 C. for 4.5 hours. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue purified by flash chromatography SiO gradient 0 10 methanol in dichloromethane to yield the title compound as a yellow solid 35 mg 25 . H NMR DMSO D 400 MHz 8.54 1H s 8.27 1H d J 5.7 Hz 7.56 7.50 2H m 7.48 1H dd J 11.0 2.1 Hz 7.16 7.13 1H m 6.18 1H t J 8.9 Hz 3.81 3H s 3.74 3.67 1H m 3.57 3.55 2H m 0.95 3H d J 5.99 Hz . LCMS method A R 5.82 min M H 485.

3 2 Fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 0.13 g 0.38 mmol was dissolved in IMS 5 ml before 1M NaOH 0.45 ml 0.45 mmol was added and the mixture heated at 60 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was re dissolved in THF 3 ml . 2 Aminooxy 2 methyl propan 1 ol 100 mg 0.56 mmol DIPEA 0.20 ml 1.1 mmol and HATU 210 mg 0.56 mmol were added and the mixture stirred at room temperature. On completion of the reaction the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic extract was washed with water dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH gradient 99 1 to 90 10 to give an orange solid. The orange solid was then purified by reversed phase HPLC Phenomenex Luna 5 phenyl hexyl 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile to provide the title compound semiformate as a yellow solid 7 mg 5 . LCMS method A R 5.87 min M H 405. H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 1.10 6H s 2.42 3H s 3.20 2H s 6.58 1H t J 8.58 Hz 6.91 1H dd J 8.42 2.06 Hz 7.20 1H dd J 12.05 2.11 Hz 7.37 1H dd J 5.84 1.11 Hz 7.81 1H s 8.23 1H d J 5.83 Hz 8.52 1H d J 1.07 Hz .

Sodium hydroxide 0.9 mL 1M was added to a suspension of 7 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 5 methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridazine 6 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 242 mg 0.55 mmol in IMS 10 ml and the reaction heated at 70 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue azeotroped with toluene 3 to give a solid. The resultant crude solid was suspended in THF and HOBT 103 mg 0.77 mmol EDCI 136 mg 0.69 mmol DIPEA 0.144 ml 0.83 mmol and O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 85 mg 0.825 mmol were then added and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 72 hours. The mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue dissolved in ethyl acetate 20 ml and washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried NaSO and filtered before concentrating in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC gradient 0 90 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane then 20 methanol in ethyl acetate to yield the title compound as an orange solid 148 mg 54 . LCMS method B R 2.64 min M H 498.

To a solution of 7 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 5 methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridazine 6 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 148 mg 0.3 mmol in methanol 5 mL was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 3 drops and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue dissolved in acetonitrile water neutralised with triethylamine and subjected to reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Luna 5 phenyl hexyl 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 90 10 to 15 85 to give the title compound as an orange solid 82 mg 52 . LCMS method A R 5.89 min M H 471. H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 3.58 2H s 3.91 2H s 3.95 3H s 6.44 1H t J 8.85 Hz 7.18 1H d J 8.56 Hz 7.53 1H dd J 11.02 1.92 Hz 7.94 1H s 8.43 1H d J 6.27 Hz 9.31 1H d J 6.52 Hz 12.09 1H s .

To a stirred solution of 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 150.0 mg 0.33 mmol in anhydrous THF 3.5 mL and anhydrous methanol 1.0 mL under Nwas added freshly prepared 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.66 ml 2.0 eq . The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 1 h. The resultant reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and azeotroped with toluene 3 5 ml to give a yellow solid. The yellow solid was redissolved in anhydrous THF 6.6 ml . EDCI 127.0 mg 0.66 mmol 2.0 eq and HOBT 89.7 mg 0.66 mmol 2.0 eq were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 5 minutes O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 68.5 mg 0.66 mmol 2.0 eq and DIPEA 0.12 mL 0.66 mmol 2.0 eq were added and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature under Nfor 16 h. The reaction mixture was absorbed onto silica and purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min 0 to 20 EtOH in DCM to give the desired product as a pale yellow solid 57.5 mg 33.1 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 8.72 s 1H 8.24 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.54 7.32 m 2H 7.21 ddd J 8.5 1.1 Hz 1H 6.61 6.39 m 1H 3.86 3.70 m 2H 3.62 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 3.35 3.24 m 1H 3.34 3.32 m 1H 3.14 3.00 m 2H 1.42 1.27 m 2H 0.94 0.78 m 2H LC MS method D M H 523.2 R 2.21 min.

To a stirred solution of 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 57.0 mg 0.109 mmol in anhydrous MeOH 5.5 mL and anhydrous THF 2.7 mL under Nwas added 4 M HCl in dioxane 817 L 0.327 mmol 3.0 eq and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 1 h the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was redissolved in acetonitrile 2.0 mL and loaded onto Phenomenex Strata X cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was washed with water 10 mL and methanol 15 ml . The desired product was then eluted using 2M ammonia in MeOH. Trituration from DCM hexane afforded the title compound as a tan solid 32.9 mg 60.8 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.54 s 1H 8.32 d J 5.9 Hz 1H 7.70 7.41 m 3H 7.20 dd J 8.50 Hz 1H 6.26 t J 9.6 Hz 1H 4.78 br s 1H 3.87 dd J 6.31 Hz 2H 3.70 3.39 m 3H 1.27 br s 1H 1.18 1.03 m 2H 0.90 0.67 m 2H LC MS method C M H 497.0 R 0.57 min.

This compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide using 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester as the starting material. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 9.50 br s 1H 8.60 d J 0.88 Hz 1H 8.38 d J 5.97 Hz 1H 7.46 dd J 5.98 Hz 1H 7.10 dd J 11.45 Hz 1H 6.89 dd J 8.41 Hz 1H 6.66 t J 8.67 Hz 1H 6.42 dd J 14.33 Hz 1H 6.33 br s 1H 4.29 4.22 m 2H 4.18 dd J 14.33 Hz 1H 4.04 dd J 6.82 Hz 1H 3.98 3.90 m 2H 3.61 3.53 m 1H 2.44 s 3H 1.33 1.20 m 2H 1.01 0.96 m 2H LC MS method D M H 443.3 R 2.17 min.

This compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 hydroxy ethoxy amide using 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide as the starting material. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.54 s 1H 8.32 d J 5.9 Hz 1H 7.70 7.41 m 3H 7.20 dd J 8.50 Hz 1H 6.26 t J 9.6 Hz 1H 4.78 br s 1H 3.87 dd J 6.31 Hz 2H 3.70 3.39 m 3H 1.27 br s 1H 1.18 1.03 m 2H 0.90 0.67 m 2H LC MS method D M H 417.0 R 1.61 min.

To a stirred solution of 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 150.0 mg 0.33 mmol in anhydrous THF 3.5 mL and anhydrous methanol 1.0 mL under Nwas added freshly prepared 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.66 ml 2.0 eq . The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 1 h. The resultant reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and azeotroped with toluene 3 5 ml to give a yellow solid. The yellow solid was redissolved in water 5 mL and concentrated. Acetic acid 2 drops was added. A yellow solid precipitated out and the solid was filtered rinsed well with water and dried on high vacuum pump to give 243.6 mg 77.4 of the product. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.54 s 1H 8.32 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.95 br s 1H 7.65 7.52 m 2H 7.33 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.67 t J 9.6 Hz 1H 3.53 3.28 m 1H 1.20 1.07 m 2H 0.85 m 2H LC MS method C M H 438.0 R 0.67 min.

To a heterogeneous mixture of 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 160.0 mg 0.37 mmol and O 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 113.1 mg 0.77 mmol 2.1 eq in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 5.7 mL was added N N N N tetramethyl O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl uronium hexafluorophosphate 278.3 mg 0.74 mmol 2.0 eq and N N diisopropylethylamine 0.25 mL 1.46 mmol 4.0 eq and the resulting homogeneous reaction mixture was stirred under Nat RT for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with MeOH 2 mL and the crude material was absorbed onto silica. The crude mixture was purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min 25 to 100 EtOAc in hexane to afford the product as an orange waxy solid 75.4 mg 36.4 . LC MS method C M H 567.2 R 0.73 min.

To 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 65.0 mg 0.12 mmol in anhydrous methanol 1.8 mL was added 4 M Hydrogen chloride in 1 4 Dioxane 1.0 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 17 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was redissolved in acetonitrile 2.0 mL and loaded onto a Phenomenex Strata X cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was washed with water 10 mL and methanol 15 ml . The desired product was then eluted using 2M ammonia in MeOH. Methanol was removed in vacuo to give a brown oil which was purified by HPLC to obtain 3.3 mg 5.5 of the desired product as the TFA salt. H NMR 500 MHz MeOD. ppm 8.96 s 1H 8.45 d J 6.81 Hz 1H 8.18 d J 6.77 Hz 1H 7.48 dd J 10.76 Hz 1H 7.28 d J 8.50 Hz 1H 6.56 t J 9.6 1H 4.01 3.86 m 1H 3.85 3.75 m 2H 3.75 3.64 m 1H 3.63 3.47 m 2H 1.34 1.29 m 2H 1.09 1.04 m 2H LC MS method D M H 527.0 R 3.33 min.

To a stirred solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 prop 2 ynyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 55.0 mg 0.12 mmol in anhydrous THF 1.0 mL and MeOH 0.5 mL under Nwas added freshly prepared 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.24 ml 2.0 eq . The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 1 h. The resultant reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and azeotroped with toluene 3 5 ml to give a tan solid. The tan solid was redissolved in anhydrous THF 2.4 ml . EDCI 45.2 mg 0.24 mmol 2.0 eq and HOBT 35.0 mg 0.26 mmol 2.2 eq were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 5 minutes O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 14.6 mg 0.14 mmol 1.2 eq and DIPEA 82.2 L 0.47 mmol 4.0 eq were added and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature under Nfor 24 h. The reaction mixture was absorbed onto silica and purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min EtOAc MeOH gradient 100 1 to 50 50 to give the desired product as a yellow solid 34.4 mg 56.0 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 11.72 s 1H 8.60 s 1H 8.37 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 7.79 7.47 m 3H 7.24 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 6.50 dd J 14.0 Hz 8.0 Hz 1H 6.35 6.15 m 1H 5.31 s 2H 4.27 4.11 m 1H 4.11 3.90 m 4H 3.92 3.70 m 2H LC MS method D M H 521.0 R 2.18 min.

To a stirred solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 prop 2 ynyl 1 H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 35.0 mg 0.067 mmol in anhydrous MeOH 6.7 mL and anhydrous THF 3.4 mL under Nwas added 4 M HCl in dioxane 50 L 0.20 mmol 3.0 eq and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 3 h the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was redissolved in acetonitrile 2.0 mL and loaded onto Phenomenex Strata X cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was washed with water 10 mL and MeOH 15 ml . The desired product was then eluted using 2M ammonia in MeOH. Trituration from DCM hexane afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 32.7 mg 98.5 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.58 d J 0.82 Hz 1H 8.36 d J 5.93 Hz 1H 7.79 7.62 m 2H 7.60 7.47 m 1H 7.30 7.15 m 1H 6.34 6.15 m 1H 5.33 s 2H 4.77 broad s 1H 3.84 t J 4.54 Hz 2H 3.61 3.50 m 2H 3.42 3.34 m 2H LC MS method E M H 495.1 R 3.54 min.

To a stirred solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 4 tetrahydro pyran 2 yloxy but 2 ynyl 1 H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 147.0 mg 0.25 mmol in anhydrous THF 1.0 mL and MeOD 3.0 mL under Nwas added freshly prepared 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.51 ml 2.0 eq . The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 1 h. The resultant reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and azeotroped with toluene 3 5 ml to give a yellow foam. The yellow foam was redissolved in anhydrous THF 7.9 ml . EDCI 103.3 mg 0.54 mmol 2.2 eq and HOBT 72.8 mg 0.54 mmol 2.2 eq were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 5 minutes O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 50.5 mg 0.49 mmol 2.0 eq and DIPEA 0.19 mL 1.10 mmol 4.5 eq were added and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature under Nfor 17 h. The reaction mixture was absorbed onto silica and purified by flash column chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min Hexane EtOAc gradient 100 1 to 1 100 to give the desired product as a yellow solid 47.2 mg 30.3 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 8.60 s 1H 8.40 d J 5.95 Hz 1H 7.54 7.36 m 2H 7.21 d J 8.48 Hz 1H 6.43 6.34 m 2H 6.20 broad s 1H 5.49 s 2H 4.71 m 1H 4.26 4.11 m 4H 4.03 dd J 6.80 2.4 Hz 1H 3.93 3.86 m 2H 3.80 3.72 m 1H 3.48 m 3H 1.82 1.64 m 2H 1.62 1.44 m 4H LC MS method C M H 635.1 R 0.839 min.

To a stirred solution of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1 4 tetrahydro pyran 2 yloxy but 2 ynyl 1 H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 vinyloxy ethoxy amide 47.0 mg 0.075 mmol in anhydrous MeOH 3.0 mL under Nwas added 4 M HCl in dioxane 0.10 mL 0.40 mmol 5.5 eq and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 3 h the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was redissolved in acetonitrile 2.0 mL and loaded onto Phenomenex Strata X cartridge 5 g . The cartridge was washed with water 10 mL and methanol 15 ml . The desired product was then eluted using 2M ammonia in MeOH. Trituration from DCM hexane afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 14.1 mg 36.3 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 11.66 broad s 1H 8.58 s 1H 8.36 d J 5.86 Hz 1H 7.70 d J 6.8 Hz 1H 7.63 m 1H 7.55 dd J 11.03 1.6 Hz 1H 7.26 7.17 m 1H 6.23 t J 8.8 Hz 1H 5.35 s 2H 5.18 t J 5.96 Hz 1H 4.80 4.74 m 1H 4.02 d J 4.25 Hz 2H 3.85 t J 4.76 Hz 2H 3.60 3.48 m 2H LC MS method D M H 525.1 R 1.59 min.

The title compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 3 dihydroxy propoxy amide replacing O 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine with O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 11.60 s 1H 8.53 s 1H 8.32 d J 5.86 Hz 1H 7.57 d J 5.69 Hz 1H 7.53 7.48 m 2H 7.20 d J 8.06 Hz 1H 6.26 t J 8.81 Hz 1H 4.87 d J 4.05 Hz 1H 4.60 t J 5.43 Hz 1H 3.94 dd J 9.88 2.80 Hz 1H 3.76 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 3.70 broad s 1H 3.56 3.45 m 1H 3.40 3.34 m 2H 1.15 1.08 m 2H 0.88 0.83 m 2H LC MS method E M H 527.1 R 7.31 min.

The title compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to 1 cyclopropyl 3 2 fluoro 4 methylsulfanyl phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 2 hydroxy ethoxy amide replacing O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine with O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d . ppm 11.58 broad s 1H 8.51 d J 0.83 Hz 1H 8.31 d J 5.87 Hz 1H 7.56 dd J 5.88 1.20 Hz 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.18 dd J 12.13 2.50 Hz 1H 6.87 dd J 8.46 2.50 Hz 1H 6.45 t J 8.99 Hz 1H 4.94 4.78 m 1H 4.62 4.53 m 1H 3.94 dd J 9.91 Hz 1H 3.76 dd J 9.85 7.0 Hz 1H 3.73 3.66 m 1H 3.56 3.47 m 1H 3.42 3.31 m 2H 2.41 s 3H 1.15 1.08 m 2H 0.87 0.83 m 2H LC MS method C M H 447.2 R 0.479 min.

A mixture of 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 100 mg 0.23 mmol 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 0.50 mL 2.2 eq THF 1.50 mL and MeOH 0.5 mL was heated at 75 C. for 1.0 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated and azeotroped with toluene 3 2 ml to give the sodium salt intermediate as foam. The crude residue was dissolved in anhydrous THF 4.7 ml . R Pyrrolidin 3 ol hydrochloride 58.1 mg 0.4 mmol EDCI 94.6 mg 0.48 mmol 2.1 eq HOBt 66.7 mg 0.48 mmol 2.1 eq and DIPEA 164 L 0.94 mmol 4.0 eq were then added. After stirring for 16 hours at ambient temperature the reaction mixture was absorbed onto silica. The title compound was purified by flash chromatography silica ISCO 45 mL min EtOAc MeOH gradient 100 0 to 60 40 . Crystallization from dichloromethane hexane afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 93.1 mg 85 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD. ppm 8.62 s 1H 8.23 d J 5.99 Hz 1H 7.46 m 2H 7.23 ddd J 8.54 2.0 1.11 Hz 1H 6.55 t J 8.84 Hz 1H 4.54 4.28 m 1H 3.73 broad s 2H 3.58 3.37 m 2H 1.93 m 2H LC MS method E M H 467.1 R 3.60 min.

The title compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 2 yl R 3 hydroxy pyrrolidin 1 yl methanone replacing R pyrrolidin 3 ol hydrochloride with 3R 5S 5 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidin 3 ol hydrochloride. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 6 ppm 8.62 d J 1.02 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 5.99 Hz 1H 7.52 7.35 m 2H 7.34 7.16 m 1H 6.60 t J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.59 4.42 m 1H 4.35 4.17 m 1H 3.71 3.44 m 4H 2.19 1.90 m 2H LC MS method E M H 497.1 R 3.37 min.

The title compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to 3 2 fluoro 4 iodo phenylamino 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridin 2 yl R 3 hydroxy pyrrolidin 1 yl methanone replacing R pyrrolidin 3 ol hydrochloride with azetidin 3 ol hydrochloride. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 6 ppm 8.84 s 1H 8.34 d J 6.55 Hz 1H 7.77 d J 6.58 Hz 1H 7.50 dd J 10.88 Hz 1H 7.29 d J 8.54 Hz 1H 6.62 t J 8.83 Hz 1H 4.60 4.52 m 1H 4.50 4.31 m 2H 4.19 3.82 m 2H LC MS method E M H 453.1 R 3.55 min.

Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 2.14 g 7.6 mmol was dissolved in DCM 5 ml and cooled to 5 C. To this was added 2 chloro 4 isopropyl phenol 1.23 g 7.2 mmol in 10 ml DCM and 1.75 ml pyridine dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 110 C. for 2 hours. The resultant dark solution was washed with 1M HCl 20 ml water 20 ml and saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 ml . The DCM extract was dried and concentrated in vacuo to provide the title compound as a dark orange oil 1.71 g 78 . H NMR CDCl 1.22 1.29 6H d J 6.87 Hz 2.88 3.00 1H sept J 6.89 Hz 7.15 7.20 1H m 7.24 1H d J 8.36 Hz 7.36 1H d J 2.17 Hz .

A degassed solution of 3 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 300 mg 1.4 mmol trifluoro methanesulfonic acid 2 chloro 4 isopropyl phenyl ester 700 mg 2.3 mmol Pddba 63 mg 0.068 mmol Xantphos 79 mg 0.14 mmol and KPO 0.58 g 2.7 mmol in toluene 10 ml was heated at 120 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then filtered through a pad of Celite . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a brown gum. The gum was purified by flash chromatography Si SPE DCM EtOAc 90 10 to provide the title compound as a yellow gum 120 mg 24 . LCMS method B R 2.82 min M H 372.

A solution of 3 2 chloro 4 isopropyl phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 230 mg 0.62 mmol and 1M NaOH 0.74 ml 7.4 mmol in IMS 5 ml was heated at 60 C. for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then acidified to pH 5 using 1M HCl. The fine yellow suspension was filtered to provide the title compound as a yellow solid 220 mg 100 . LCMS method B R 2.53 min M H 344.

A suspension of 3 2 chloro 4 isopropyl phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 0.22 g 0.65 mmol O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 0.10 g 0.98 mmol HATU 0.37 g 0.98 mmol and DIPEA 0.33 ml 1.9 mmol in THF 2 ml was stirred at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPE DCM MeOH gradient 99 1 to 90 10 to give an orange gum 337 mg . This material was dissolved in IMS 5 ml and 1M aqueous hydrochloric acid 5 ml was added. The mixture was stirred for 1 hour then the crude product was isolated using an SCX 2 cartridge gradient 0 100 then 100 02M NHin MeOH MeOH the appropriate fractions combined and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PPC dichloromethane methanol gradient 100 0 to 92 8 gave the title compound as a glassy yellow oil 21 mg 8 over two steps . LCMS method A R6.14 M H 403. H NMR CDCl 8.58 1H s 8.41 8.36 1H m 7.30 1H d J 6.08 Hz 7.26 1H d J 1.99 Hz 6.87 1H dd J 8.33 2.02 Hz 6.47 1H dd J 8.34 3.82 Hz 5.85 1H s 4.11 3H s 3.97 3.90 2H m 3.71 2H dd J 5.23 3.41 Hz 2.78 1H m 1.22 1.13 6H m .

4 Cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamine 400 mg 2.65 mmol was dissolved in water 5 ml and cooled to 0 C. Concentrated sulfuric acid 1.6 ml was added dropwise slowly followed by a solution of sodium nitrite 0.18 ml 2.65 mmol in water 1 ml . The resulting mixture was added to a solution of potassium iodide 0.43 g 5.30 mmol in water 1 ml . The mixture was heated at 60 C. for 2 hours then allowed to cool and extracted with dichloromethane 2 . The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si PPC pentane afforded the title compound as a pale yellow oil 490 mg 71 . H NMR CDCl 0.60 0.77 2H m 0.94 1.06 2H m 1.81 1.90 1H m 6.64 1H dd J 8.17 2.01 Hz 6.74 6.96 1H m 7.53 7.64 1H m .

A degassed solution of 3 amino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 521 mg 2.4 mmol 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro 1 iodo benzene 810 mg 3.09 mmol Pddba 154 mg 0.168 mmol Xantphos 194 mg 0.336 mmol and cesium carbonate 1.95 g 6.0 mmol in toluene 5 ml was heated at 110 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then filtered through a pad of Celite . The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo to give a brown gum. The gum was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH 90 10 to provide the title compound as an orange oil 197 mg 23 . LCMS method B R 2.65 min M H 354.

A solution of 3 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 197 mg 0.50 mmol and 1M NaOH 1.02 ml 1.02 mmol in IMS 3 ml was heated at 60 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature then acidified to pH 4 using acetic acid. The brown solid was filtered off the residue dried to provide the title compound 161 mg 97 . LCMS method B R 2.18 min M H 326.

A suspension of 3 4 cyclopropyl 2 fluoro phenylamino 1 methyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 88 mg 0.25 mmol O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 028 mg 0.28 mmol HATU 114 mg 0.30 mmol and DIPEA 0.052 ml 0.30 mmol in THF 3 ml was stirred at ambient temperature for 18 hours. On completion of the reaction the mixture was concentrated in vacuo then re dissolved in DCM. The solution was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine dried over magnesium sulphate then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH gradient 99 1 to 90 10 to give a yellow solid 34 mg 33 . LCMS method B R 2.46 min M H 411. H NMR CDCl 8.58 1H s 8.41 8.36 1H m 7.30 1H d J 6.08 Hz 7.26 1H d J 1.99 Hz 6.87 1H dd J 8.33 2.02 Hz 6.47 1H dd J 8.34 3.82 Hz 5.85 1H s 4.11 3H s 3.97 3.90 2H m 3.71 2H dd J 5.23 3.41 Hz 2.78 1H m 1.22 1.13 6H m .

Amides and hydroxamates were prepared from the appropriate acid by using the coupling general method described below. In some cases the intermediate acid was not isolated the coupling reaction performed on the crude carboxylate salt produced by following the saponification general method.

A mixture of carboxylic acid ester 1N aqueous NaOH 1 2 eq. and EtOH was heated at 70 C. for 1 4 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and azeotroped with toluene to give the crude carboxylate salt.

Method A The appropriate carboxylic acid or carboxylate salt was suspended in anhydrous THF before the appropriate hydroxylamine or amine 1 4 eq. EDCI 1 1.5 eq. HOBt 1 1.5 eq. and DIPEA 2 4 eq. were added. After stirring at ambient temperature until the reaction was complete LCMS TLC the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with water before the organic layer was isolated dried over sodium sulfate then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to purification.

Method B The appropriate carboxylic acid or carboxylate salt was dissolved in DMF before the appropriate amine or hydroxylamine 2 4 eq. DIPEA 2 4 eq. and HATU 1 2 eq. were added. On completion of the reaction the solution was diluted with water and the resultant solid precipitate filtered off or extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate extract was washed with water dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to purification.

Method A Aqueous HCl was added to a mixture of the protected substrate in an appropriate solvent at ambient temperature. The mixture was stirred until analysis TLC LCMS showed complete consumption of starting material. The reaction mixture was neutralized concentrated in vacuo and subjected to purification.

Method B A solution of the substrate in methanol was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge. The cartridge was then washed with methanol before the desired product was eluted using 2M ammonia in MeOH and the eluent collected then concentrated to give a residue. The residue was subjected to purification.

Method C TBAF in THF was added to a solution of the silyl ether the mixture stirred at ambient temperature until analysis TLC LCMS showed complete consumption of starting material. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and subjected to purification.

Method D TFA was added to the substrate either neat or as a solution in DCM. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature until analysis TLC LCMS showed complete consumption of starting material. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and subjected to purification.

Method E An aliquot 3 mol equivalents of freshly prepared HCl in methanol solution concentrated HCl 0.14 ml in methanol 25 ml was added to the coupled substrate at ambient temperature. The mixture was stirred until analysis TLC LCMS showed complete consumption of starting material. The contents were evaporated to dryness and the residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and treated with triethylamine 3 mol equivalents at room temperature for 10 min. The mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the residue subjected to purification.

 LCMS method A triturated in methanol ethyl acetate recrystallised from methanol water then triturated in ethyl acetate triturated in ethyl acetate triturated in 5 methanol in DCM triturated in methanol recrystallised from chloroform methanol triturated in methanol reaction temperature 45 C. C18 reverse phase column used triturated in acetonitrile deprotection reaction run at 50 C. triturated in ethyl acetate DCM reaction run in THF

