---

title: Recoverable optical fiber tethered buoy assembly
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a recoverable tethered optical fiber buoy and winch assembly that is mounted to the back of the sail or the back of an aft non-moving surface of an underwater vehicle and housed in a configuration to provide very little additional drag to the underwater vehicle when the assembly is not deployed. The invention provides a capability to connect ocean surface visual or radio frequency sensors to an underwater mobile platform with a very high data rate link that is retrievable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07559288&OS=07559288&RS=07559288
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07559288
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070730
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to tethered buoys. In particular the present invention is directed to a recoverable optical fiber tethered buoy for use with underwater vehicles. The invention provides a capability to connect ocean surface visual or radio frequency sensors to an underwater mobile platform with a very high data rate link that is retrievable.

There have been efforts to equip underwater vehicles with buoyant sensors and antennas on a tether that are deployed to the surface for a period of time and then winched back to the underwater vehicle. Prior art winches and buoys are relatively large and cannot be incorporated in the design of next generation underwater vehicles or current underwater vehicles that are near their maximum weight. What is needed is a smaller winch and buoy system that can be mounted to the aft of the sail of a next generation underwater vehicle to provide the critical capabilities of a recoverable tethered buoyed sensor and antenna.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide a winch and buoy assembly that is small enough to be incorporated into the design of the next generation underwater vehicle and will provide the critical capabilities of a recoverable tethered buoyed antenna or sensor.

The above object is accomplished with the present invention by a recoverable optical fiber tethered buoy and winch assembly that is mounted to the back of the sail or the back of an aft non moving surface of an underwater vehicle and is housed in a configuration that causes minimal additional drag to the underwater vehicle.

Referring to there is illustrated an embodiment of the recoverable optical fiber tethered buoy assembly which consists of a housing mated to an integrated buoy and antenna or sensor . The housing contains an optical fiber tether coupled to the antenna or sensor and an optical fiber payout retrieval system . The recoverable optical fiber tethered buoy assembly has two configurations a housed configuration as illustrated in and a deployed configuration as illustrated in . The housing can be made of a light weight carbon fiber material that is both robust and not subject to corrosion in salt water. The housing can be bonded to an underwater vehicle by means of a water proof seal and retaining hardware. The housing is preferably mounted to an aft non moving surface of the underwater vehicle such as the sail. When the entire assembly is in the housed configuration the assembly will provide very little additional drag to the underwater vehicle. The entire assembly is no more than one meter long and weighs approximately thirty pounds. The buoy is buoyant in water and can be filled with air or other gases or it can be made of Styrofoam or other buoyant material. The buoy is cylindrical in shape with one end of the cylinder having a hemispherical shape and the other end having a conical shape. A conical mating system on one end of housing is used during buoy retrieval whereby the conical end of the buoy fits into the inverse conical end of the housing . The inverse conically shaped end of the housing forms means for mating the buoy . The conical end of the buoy is weighted so that when it floats in water the hemispherical end clears the water s surface. This ensures that the antenna or sensor which is integrated into the hemispherical end of the buoy is able to transmit and receive radio or optic signals above the water s surface. The buoy is approximately sixteen inches in diameter and about twenty four inches long and weighs approximately one hundred pounds with approximately two hundred forty pounds of buoyancy.

The optical fiber payout retrieval system pays out and retrieves the optical fiber tether that is attached at one end to the buoy . The other end of the optical fiber tether is attached to a winch . The optical fiber tether has a core comprising an optical fiber parallel to a small gauge wire and a strength member surrounded by a flexible jacket made of a buoyant water proof polymer. This core of the optical fiber tether provides power to charge energy storage within the buoy and the signal path from the underwater vehicle to the antenna or sensor integrated with the buoy . The cross sectional diameter of the optical fiber tether is approximately three millimeters. The length of the optical fiber tether should be at least 1500 meters. The optical fiber tether spools around the winch in the housed configuration and pays out in the deployed configuration similar to fishing line off of a reel. The winch is equipped with an electronic winch sensor that counts each complete revolution of the winch in order to measure the length of optical fiber tether that pays out. The sensor also provides an indicator when the optical fiber tether is completely unwound. The winch is equipped with an electric motor that will spin the winch in order to reel in the optical fiber tether . The winch the elecronic winch sensor and the electric motor together form means for paying out and retrieving the tether .

The electronic components such as the optical fiber tether and the winch sensor and the electric motor interact with electronic and power systems on board the underwater vehicle through an electrical connection that passes through a micro aperture in the hull of the underwater vehicle. The electrical connection and the micro aperture together form means for powering the tethered buoy from a power source internal to the underwater vehicle. The signal to and from the optical fiber core as well as the signal from winch sensor are directed to a user command component such as a computer that allows on board means for user command and control of the assembly .

In the deployed configuration as illustrated in the assembly can establish connectivity with the ocean surface as required while the underwater vehicle that it is attached to remains submerged. The buoy will ascend to the surface by virtue of its buoyancy pulling out the optical fiber tether from the winch . The winch within the housing keeps a small drag on the optical fiber tether to prevent fouling. As the winch sensor measures the length of remaining spooled optical fiber tether as deployed the information is relayed back to the user command component . When the buoy breaks the surface of the water it provides the antenna or sensor an aperture for line of sight communications and satellite communications GPS a basic radar detection function or visual imaging or laser communications. The buoy stays essentially in one place relative to the ocean surface while the submerged vehicle can continue to move underwater paying out the optical fiber tether as it does. On command from the user command component or at the end of the optical fiber tether payout the winch will start to reel in the optical fiber tether until the buoy is re docked into the conical mating system of the housing .

The recoverable antenna buoy assembly offers a weight advantage to next generation underwater vehicles over prior art systems. It is specifically designed for multiple uses over short periods of time and has decreased complexity and cost over prior art systems.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

