---

title: Computer-implemented modeling systems and methods for analyzing and predicting computer network intrusions
abstract: Computer-implemented systems and methods for analyzing activities associated with accesses of a computer network. A computer-implemented method can be configured to receive data related to the activities associated with the accesses of a computer network. The network activities data are segmented into a plurality of network activities segments. For each of the network activities segments, an anomaly detection predictive model is generated. The generated predictive models are for use in analyzing the activities associated with the computer network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08015133&OS=08015133&RS=08015133
owner: SAS Institute Inc.
number: 08015133
owner_city: Cary
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070906
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 902 378 entitled Computer Implemented Modeling Systems and Methods for analyzing Computer Network Intrusions and filed on Feb. 20 2007 of which the entire disclosure including any and all figures is incorporated herein by reference.

This application contains subject matter that may be considered related to subject matter disclosed in U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 902 380 entitled Computer Implemented Semi supervised Learning Systems And Methods and filed on Feb. 20 2007 U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 902 379 entitled Computer Implemented Systems and Methods For Action Determination and filed on Feb. 20 2007 U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 902 381 entitled Computer Implemented Guided Learning Systems and Methods for Constructing Predictive Models and filed on Feb. 20 2007 U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 786 039 entitled Computer Implemented Predictive Model Generation Systems And Methods and filed on Mar. 24 2006 U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 786 038 entitled Computer Implemented Data Storage For Predictive Model Systems and filed on Mar. 24 2006 and to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 786 040 entitled Computer Implemented Predictive Model Scoring Systems And Methods and filed on Mar. 24 2006 of which the entire disclosures including any and all figures of all of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with US Naval Research Laboratory support under N00173 06 P 2001 awarded by the US Naval Research Laboratory. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This document relates generally to computer network intrusion analysis and more particularly to unsupervised modeling systems and methods for analyzing computer network intrusions.

As the Internet has become more widely used it has also created new risks for corporations and other types of organizations. Breaches of computer security by hackers and intruders and the potential for compromising sensitive information are a very real and serious threat. The risk is further compounded by the difficulty in determining from the many daily accesses of an organization s network or networks what constitutes legitimate network accesses e.g. employees accessing their organization s network for work related purposes etc. versus what constitutes malicious network accesses. Examples of malicious network accesses include attempts to access sensitive and confidential information that is contained within an organization s network e.g. for fraudulent purposes as well as an attempt to place a virus within the network. Current approaches have difficulty in discerning legitimate network accesses from malicious network accesses.

In accordance with the teachings provided herein systems and methods for operation upon data processing devices are provided for analyzing activities associated with accesses of a computer network. As an example a computer implemented method and system can be configured to receive data related to the activities associated with the accesses of a computer network. The network activities data are segmented into a plurality of network activities segments. The segmented data is used to generate predictive models are for analyzing activities associated with computer networks.

As another example a computer implemented method and system can be configured to receive data related to the activities associated with accesses of a computer network. The network activities data are segmented into a plurality of network activities segments. For each of the network activities segments an anomaly detection predictive model is generated wherein the model generation includes generating for a network activity segment a predictive model that is a model of the segment. The generated predictive models are for use in analyzing the activities associated with the computer network or other computer networks.

Malicious network accessing can take many different forms such as a single intrusion to access or steal assets that are available via the network . As another example a malicious network accessing can involve low and slow intrusions. These attacks or portscans usually performed by skilled intruders are characterized by their lengthy duration possibly weeks or months at a time precision and methodical execution. Usually these attacks are intended to gather information about points of weakness in the network for future pervasive and possibly more malicious purposes.

The assets may be a primary goal of the malicious network accessing . The assets can include confidential or sensitive information as well as access to proprietary applications that are on the network .

To assist in detecting malicious network accessing process captures network event information regarding any accesses of the network such as accesses from origins external to the network . Process analyzes the network events and provides intrusion detection analysis data for use in sifting through the many network events to locate potential malicious network accessing s .

With reference to process processes network activity data in order to generate network activity segments . The segmentation operations performed by process can include separating into different segments the network traffic information based upon the type of access e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP versus file transfer protocol FTP .

For each of the network activities segments a predictive model is generated at process to assist in predicting anomalous network behavior within the model s associated network activity segment. The models generated via process can be unsupervised learning models such as compression neural networks e.g. nonlinear replicator neural networks which are generally known in the art and discussed in such references as S. Hawkins H. X. He G. J. Williams and R. A. Baxter Outlier detection using replicator neural networks Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference and Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery 2002 G. J. Williams R. A. Baxter H. X. He S. Hawkins and L. Gu A comparative study of RNN for outlier detection in data mining Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining and O. Abdel Wahhab and M. Fahmy Image compression using multi layer neural networks Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE Symposium on Computers and Communications ISCC 1997 .

A predictive model produces indicators e.g. segment scores for its associated segment. The scores are used in analyzing which activities associated with the computer network may constitute anomalous behavior. A segment score is indicative of how anomalous a computer network access may be. As an example the scoring mechanism can be configured such that the higher the score the more likely a particular network activity is anomalous and possibly constituting a malicious network access. In this way the scoring mechanism is also an indicator of the degree of uncertainty of how anomalous a computer network access may be.

The scores generated by the models can then be used in many different ways for the detection of network intrusions. As an illustration shows that the network activity segment scores can be used to improve one or more of the initial models generated by process .

To assist in model improvement the scores indicate which activities should be scrutinized to determine whether they are malicious activities. This determination of what activities should be acted upon based upon the scores is performed at process . After the actions are completed e.g. manually and or using additional detection tools to investigate the true nature of an anomalous network event the outcomes of taking the action are analyzed at process . Process generates analysis results such as determining which network events that triggered relatively high anomalous scores actually turned out to be a legitimate network event or malicious network event. The analysis results are funneled back into the model building process so that the models can be retrained and improved via process .

After the segments have been generated model generation operations construct models for each other the segments . It should be understood that similar to the other processing flows described herein the steps and the order of the steps in the flow of this figure may be altered modified removed and or augmented and still achieve the desired outcome. As an illustration The model generation operations may be performed in parallel or in serial fashion depending upon the desired performance goals.

Each of the models acts as a predictor of anomalous activity for that model s respective segment . For example a first model is generated in order to act as a predictor for a first segment a second model is generated in order to act as a predictor for a second segment etc.

The completion of the training of the models results in network activity segment scores being generated. The scores act as an indicator of how anomalous a particular entry is within the segment. For example the first model generates network activity scores for the first segment s entries that indicate for the entries how anomalous an entry is.

With reference to the network activity segment scores are examined by process with respect to pre specified scoring thresholds. Those scores that satisfy a scoring threshold are considered anomaly detections . Actions are then taken by process with respect to the anomaly detections . In other words the multiple network accesses have been reduced to a smaller set of accesses so that an action can be taken to determine a more accurate assessment e.g. the true nature of the detected anomalies .

To continue this example illustrates different types of traffic at for use in generating segment . In this illustration six different types of traffic segments are generated by segmentation process an HTTP traffic segment an FTP traffic segment a mail service traffic segment a web browsing traffic segment an internal traffic segment and an external traffic segment. For each of these different segments a model is generated via processes .

A diverse set of variables can form the basis for segmentation. For example static or non time based variables can be used as the basis for forming segments. A static variable can be network access at a single point in time. In addition to or in place of time based variables can be used as a basis for forming segments for which predictive models are to be generated. A time based variable can include stringing together network accesses that occur over a period of time and that originate from the same entity.

The use of time based derived variables within a network intrusion detection system is illustrated in . With reference to process creates time based derived variables from the network activity data . Process examines the derived time based variable in order to determine to which segment a derived variable belongs. For the segments predictive models will be generated.

As illustrated in the analysis of the segment scores over time can result in an adjustment of the scoring thresholds that are applied to a segment. For a segment deemed as problematic based upon analysis of segment scores over time the segment s threshold can be lowered so as to include more entries from the problematic segment in the set of anomaly detections . This results in a greater amount of analysis of the true nature of the segment s entries such as through applying manual and or more sophisticated and time intensive network intrusion analysis. Conversely for a segment deemed not problematic based upon analysis of segment scores over time the segment s threshold can be raised so as to include fewer entries from the non problematic segment in the set of anomaly detections . This results in a less amount of analysis for this segment and thus may free up additional resources to scrutinize more problematic segments.

While examples have been used to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention the patentable scope of the invention is defined by claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the examples disclosed herein are to be considered non limiting. As an illustration the systems and methods disclosed herein may be implemented on various types of computer architectures such as for example on a networked system on a single general purpose computer etc. As an illustration depicts a networked environment wherein users can interact with a network intrusion analysis system .

The users can interact with the network intrusion analysis system through a number of ways such over one or more networks . A server accessible through the network s can host the network intrusion analysis system . The same server or different servers can contain various software instructions e.g. instructions for segmenting the network activities data instructions for generating anomaly detection predictive models etc. or modules of the network intrusion analysis system . Data store s can store the data to be analyzed as well as any intermediate or final data calculations and data results.

The network intrusion analysis system can be a web based analysis and reporting tool that provides users flexibility and functionality for performing network intrusion problem identification. Moreover the network intrusion analysis system can be used separately or in conjunction with other software programs such as other network intrusion detection techniques.

It should be understood that the network intrusion analysis system can be implemented in other ways such as on a stand alone computer for access by a user as shown in .

It is further noted that the systems and methods may include data signals conveyed via networks e.g. local area network wide area network internet combinations thereof etc. fiber optic medium carrier waves wireless networks etc. for communication with one or more data processing devices. The data signals can carry any or all of the data disclosed herein that is provided to or from a device.

Additionally the methods and systems described herein may be implemented on many different types of processing devices by program code comprising program instructions that are executable by the device processing subsystem. The software program instructions may include source code object code machine code or any other stored data that is operable to cause a processing system to perform methods described herein. Other implementations may also be used however such as firmware or even appropriately designed hardware configured to carry out the methods and systems described herein.

The systems and methods data e.g. associations mappings etc. may be stored and implemented in one or more different types of computer implemented ways such as different types of storage devices and programming constructs e.g. data stores RAM ROM Flash memory flat files databases programming data structures programming variables IF THEN or similar type statement constructs etc. . It is noted that data structures describe formats for use in organizing and storing data in databases programs memory or other computer readable media for use by a computer program.

The systems and methods may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions e.g. software for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions data stores and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that a module or processor includes but is not limited to a unit of code that performs a software operation and can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code. The software components and or functionality may be located on a single computer or distributed across multiple computers depending upon the situation at hand.

It should be understood that as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Finally as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meanings of and and or include both the conjunctive and disjunctive and may be used interchangeably unless the context expressly dictates otherwise the phrase exclusive or may be used to indicate situation where only the disjunctive meaning may apply.

