---

title: Metal fuel combustion and energy conversion system
abstract: A metal fuel combustion system and method for producing energy. The energy may be used to drive a water vessel such as a submarine. The system and method comprises a combustion device having inner and outer combustion chambers. The metal fuel comprises aluminum, magnesium, and silicon, and is preferably in the form MgAlSi, and is preferably burnt using water as an oxidant. The byproduct of and the metal oxide byproduct is MgAlSiO, which has an appearance and consistency similar to basaltic sea sand. In addition to the combustion device, the system may include additional energy producing elements such as fuel cells, thermoelectric cells, and photovoltaic cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07900453&OS=07900453&RS=07900453
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07900453
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070905
---
This application is continuation in part to related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 272 424 filing date Nov. 8 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 430 866 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Air Independent Fuel Combustion Energy Conversion joint inventors William A. Lynch and Neal A. Sondergaard.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for providing energy conversion more particularly to a combustion system that utilizes the burning of a solid metal fuel to produce energy such as electrical or mechanical energy which may be used to drive a water vessel such as a submarine.

Combustion systems may be used to generate energy to propel commercial and military sea vessels. In combustion systems fuels typically react with oxidants such as oxygen or fluorine. When oxygen is utilized as the oxidant the oxygen is typically obtained from atmospheric air. In combustion systems for subsurface vehicles such as submarines it would be advantageous to utilize air independent oxidation sources.

Combustion byproducts discharged from the combustion systems typically include carbon dioxide CO and other chemicals. These common combustion byproducts are readily detectable thereby making vehicles utilizing these combustion systems detectable as well. This is particularly undesired in military vehicles such as submarines wherein the detection of the vessel may compromise the health and safety of its occupants.

Solid light weight fuels such as aluminum and magnesium powder mixtures may be employed in combustion systems. The aluminum type fuel mixture advantageously provides an excellent energy density as a result of the combustion. However its associated combustion discharge byproduct forms a slag responsible for agglomerating and clogging problems with respect to the exhaust port of the combustor. The magnesium type of fuel mixture is advantageously more readily combustible under a lower boiling point than the aluminum type but provides for a significantly lower energy density. It is desired to have a combustion system that is designed to utilize a combination of aluminum and magnesium that provides the advantages associated with aluminum and magnesium fuel mixtures while avoiding the latter referred to problems associated therewith. Also it is desired that the combustion system has the ability to be air independent. Additionally it is desired to have a combustion system that produces a byproduct having a non detectable signature.

In one aspect the invention is a metal fuel combustion system having a metal fuel mixture an oxidant and a water source. The system further includes a combustion device for combusting the metal fuel mixture the combustion device having an inner chamber and an outer chamber. In this aspect the invention also has at least one fluid inlet attached to the outer chamber for directing water from the water source into the outer chamber and at least one oxidant inlet attached to the inner chamber for directing the oxidant into the inner chamber. In this aspect the system further includes at least one fuel feeder having the metal fuel mixture the fuel feeder feeding the metal fuel mixture into the inner chamber of the combustion device. Additionally the system includes at least one first outlet attached to the outer chamber for discharging steam and at least one second outlet attached to the inner chamber for discharging hydrogen and steam. A byproduct collector is also included the byproduct collector having a processing device for processing the byproduct.

In another aspect the invention is a combustion arrangement for processing a metal fuel mixture. The combustion arrangement includes a combustor having an inner chamber and an outer chamber the inner chamber inside the outer chamber. In this aspect the arrangement also has a fluid inlet attached to the outer chamber for directing water from the water source into the outer chamber and an oxidant inlet attached to the inner chamber for directing one or more oxidants into the inner chamber. The combustion arrangement also has a fuel feeder for feeding the metal fuel mixture the fuel feeder feeding the metal fuel mixture into the inner chamber of the combustion device. A first outlet attached to the outer chamber for discharging steam is also included and a second outlet attached to the inner chamber for discharging hydrogen and steam. In this aspect the invention further includes a byproduct collector the byproduct collector having a processing device for processing the byproduct.

In yet another aspect the invention is an energy conversion and storage method. The method is directed towards a combustion arrangement comprising a combustor having an inner chamber and an outer chamber the inner chamber inside the outer chamber a turbine communicating with the outer chamber and a byproduct collector attached to the inner chamber. In this aspect the energy conversion and storage method includes the feeding of liquid water into the outer chamber of the combustor and the feeding of a metal fuel into the inner chamber of the combustor the metal fuel comprising silicon magnesium and aluminum. The method further includes the feeding of an oxidant into the inner chamber of the combustor the burning of the metal fuel creating steam in the outer chamber and creating hydrogen steam and metal oxide byproducts in the inner chamber and the directing of the steam from the outer chamber into the turbine. Additionally the method includes the expelling of the hydrogen byproduct from the inner chamber and the depositing of the metal oxide byproduct from the inner chamber into the byproduct collector.

As shown in inlet extends through the outer chamber and extends into the inner chamber . Inlet is used to direct an oxidant into the inner chamber. The oxidant used is preferably water but may also be other known oxidants such as liquid oxygen chlorine or other halides. When water is used as the oxidant the water may be fed from the water source to the inlet . The water source may have different connectors for feeding water to the inlets and . These connectors may also include pumps and valves for varying the pressure of the water fed to the inlets and .

The combustion system further includes a first outlet an exhaust steam line extending from the outer chamber . The exhaust steam line is connected to a turbine the steam line directing steam from the outer chamber to the turbine . The turbine includes a turbine exhaust that extends to a condenser the condenser for converting the steam into liquid water which may be redirected to the water source . The turbine may be used to convert the energy produced by the combustion device into mechanical and electrical energy or a combination thereof.

The combustion system further includes a byproduct exhaust funnel for channeling the combustion byproduct into a byproduct collector . Combustion temperatures may be manipulated to produce a solid or a liquid byproduct. A byproduct processor may be attached to the byproduct collector the processor for processing the byproduct. As shown in the system also includes a second outlet for discharging hydrogen and steam from the inner chamber .

In operation the combustion system may be used to provide energy to water vessels including submarines and the like. The system may operate as follows. Liquid water is fed into the outer chamber of the combustion device via inlet . The water may be supplied by the water source . Liquid water is fed into the inner combustion chamber via the inlet . This water may also be supplied by the water source . Metal fuel mixture is fed into the inner combustion chamber by feeder . In one embodiment the metal fuel mixture may be wrapped around the reel of a servo driven spool which feeds the fuel into the inner combustion chamber via inlet . The fuel is burnt in the water. As outlined above the metal fuel mixture is preferably MgAlSi. When MgAlSiis used as the fuel the combustion byproduct is the eutectic cordierite oxide MgAlSiO which passes through funnel into the byproduct collector . The inner chamber may be coated with an inner lining material such as rhenium to prevent damage from the high temperatures associated with combustion.

According to an embodiment the MgAlSiburns at a lower temperature than individual components magnesium aluminum and silicon and the byproduct is more readily gathered in the collector . The combustion byproduct mineral cordierite has a lower melting point of 1467 C. compared with 1713 C. 2054 C. and 2826 C. for silicon aluminum and magnesium respectively. The combustion temperature may be manipulated to enable the collecting of the byproduct as a liquid rather than a solid thereby avoiding the undesired slag agglomeration that occurs at higher melting points. The liquid byproduct is processed in the processor which may include a spray nozzle to solidify the MgAlSiObyproduct. The byproduct could be solidified as droplets or pellets. These could be crushed into a sand like substance which is similar in composition to basalt oceanic crust. The composition and appearance of the byproduct is advantageous because its emission should not produce a detectable signature or have an adverse environmental impact.

The burning of the metal fuel mixture also produces gaseous hydrogen and steam which is directed out of the inner chamber via exhaust . A separating device such as a steam trap may be used to separate the water vapor from the hydrogen. The hydrogen may be stored for subsequent use and the water may be recycled to the water source for repeated use in the system .

The heat created by the reaction in the inner chamber turns the liquid water in the outer chamber into steam. This steam exits the out chamber via the first outlet exhaust steam line . The steam is fed to the turbine which converts the thermal energy from the steam into mechanical energy. The mechanical energy may drive one or more propellers of the water vessel. Alternatively a generator may be used to convert the mechanical energy from the turbine into electrical energy. This electrical energy may be used to drive the water vessel or may be stored in a storage device.

It should be noted that although illustrates only three inlets and two outlets the combustion system may include as many inlets and outlets as desired. For example the system may include multiple inlets for feeding fuels multiple inlets for feeding oxidant and multiple inlets for feeding steam. Similarly the system may have a plurality of outlets for disbursing the hydrogen and steam from the inner chamber and or multiple outlets for discharging the steam from the outer chamber.

As shown in the inner shell wall comprises a double wall structure comprising single walls and with the wall defining the outer boundary of the inner chamber. further shows a plurality of thermoelectric materials having thermoelectric cells sandwiched between the combustor shell and . The arrangement may include one or more layers of thermoelectric materials between the walls and . The thermoelectric cells are provided to convert some of the combustion heat directly into electrical energy. The electrical energy may be delivered for use outside of the arrangement . The wall may be composed of a refractory material such as rhenium which has the ability to act as shield which protects the cells and wall from excessive heat imposed by direct contact with the flame or from abrasive damage associated with the combustion products.

The fuel cell may be a hydrogen oxygen fuel cell which requires a liquid oxygen source . The source may also be compressed oxygen gas. Perchlorates such as lithium perchlorate may be utilized to provide oxygen. The fuel cell produces electric energy with water as a byproduct via an electrochemical energy conversion process. As shown in the water byproduct from the fuel cell may be directed to the water source . Because the hydrogen fuel for the fuel cell may be stored in a storage device the fuel cell may be operated independent of the combustion device and may be used according to energy demands.

The arrangement may also include an energy storage device for storing energy produced from combustion. The energy storage device may store electrical energy produced by the fuel cell and or the turbine . In situations where the combustion arrangement is utilized the storage device may also store electrical energy produced by the photovoltaic and the thermoelectric cells. The energy storage device may comprise lithium ion cells or the like and may be a single device or it may comprise a plurality of different electrical energy storage devices. The arrangement may also include one or more pumps for regulating the flow of water from elements and back to the water source .

Step is the feeding of a metal fuel into the inner chamber of the combustor the metal fuel comprising magnesium aluminum and silicon. Again this process has been outlined in the description of the embodiments of . As outlined above the metal fuel may be fed into the inner chamber via a servo drive spool. Step is the feeding of an oxidant into the inner chamber of the combustor. The oxidant is preferably water fed via an inlet as illustrated in . It should be noted that steps and may be performed in any preferred order and may not be performed in the order illustrated in .

Step is the burning of the metal fuel in the inner chamber of the combustor. The burning produces heat which energizes the transformation of liquid water into steam in the outer chamber. Additionally the reaction in the inner chamber creates hydrogen steam and metal oxide as byproducts in the inner chamber. At step the steam from the outer chamber is directed into the turbine as shown in . At step the hydrogen byproduct is expelled from the inner chamber via an outlet. As shown in the hydrogen may be stored and or directed into a fuel cell for producing more energy. Step is the depositing of the metal oxide byproduct from the inner chamber into the byproduct collector.

A number of exemplary implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example suitable results may be achieved if the steps of described techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a described component system architecture or devices are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

