---

title: Barrier with integrated wheelchair restraints
abstract: The embodiment described and claimed herein are improved barrier-type wheelchair securement systems. In particular, one embodiment of a barrier includes an integral shoulder belt assembly, two integral wheelchair restraint assemblies, and two integral lap belt assemblies. The wheelchair restraint and lap belt assemblies comprise retractors which can be mounted external or internal to the barrier. The integral shoulder belt assembly could be connected to a vertical telescoping member which is movable from a first position, wherein the telescoping member is housed inside of the barrier, to a second position, wherein the shoulder belt assembly is disposed at a proper height for a wheelchair passenger. Alternatively, the shoulder belt assembly could be rigidly mounted to the barrier in a fixed position, or could be adjustable to accommodate passengers of varying size.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09616843&OS=09616843&RS=09616843
owner: Valeda Company LLC
number: 09616843
owner_city: Ft. Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070830
---
This is a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2006 030085 entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM and filed on Aug. 2 2006 which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 705 452 entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM and filed on Aug. 5 2005. This is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 252 326 entitled RESTRAINT SYSTEM and filed on Oct. 17 2005 which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 618 572 entitled AUTOMATIC BELT RETRACTOR RELEASE SYSTEM and filed on Oct. 15 2004. International Application No. PCT US2006 030085 U.S. application Ser. No. 11 252 326 and Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 618 572 and 60 705 452 are hereby incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described and claimed herein relate generally to wheelchair securement devices for vehicles. More specifically at least some of the embodiments described herein relate to a drop in wheelchair securement system for a transit vehicle such as a bus train aircraft boat or the like.

It is very commonplace for modern transit vehicles to incorporate wheelchair friendly seating arrangements. For example most transit vehicles utilize at least some side facing seating to increase the aisle width whereby the side facing seating is arranged so that the back of the seated passenger is against a side wall. Generally the side facing seating is located near the front of the bus. In this way the width of the aisle is much greater near the front or the entrance of the bus to allow wheelchair passengers to easily navigate down the aisle. Usually the side facing seating areas incorporate fold up seats so that the side facing seating area can easily be converted from a seating or standing area to a wheelchair securement area.

Most transit vehicles which have both forward facing and side facing seating usually include barriers or the like to separate the forward facing seating areas from the side facing seating areas. These barriers are generally vertical panels which are secured to either the floor or the sidewall of the bus. Often times these barriers are drop in systems which are pre configured to include wheelchair restraints. As such the drop in barriers simplify installation of wheelchair restraints for transit vehicle manufacturers. One example of such a barrier is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 575 677 Craft . Craft discloses a wheelchair restraint system which mainly comprises a barrier. The Craft barrier divides a forward facing seating area from a side facing seating area. The Craft restraint system also includes a wheelchair attachment assembly for anchoring the wheelchair and retractable lap belts which mount to the legs of the barrier. The Craft restraint system further comprises a shoulder belt which mounts to a sidewall of the bus. For other examples of prior art wheelchair restraint systems see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 103 934 6 113 325 6 428 254 6 524 039 and 6 966 733.

While the prior art systems may be successful in providing a wheelchair restraint solution for transit vehicles a number of pressing problems remain with the prior art securement technology. For example while many of the prior art systems include shoulder belts the shoulder belt assemblies of the prior art are adapted to be mounted to a sidewall of the transit vehicle. This arrangement requires substantial labor to install in a transit vehicle not only must the transit vehicle manufacturer mount the barrier to the floor the manufacturer must also mount the shoulder belt to the wall. This two step installation process can also be complicated by the layout of the transit vehicle. In some cases wall space may not be available for the shoulder belt assembly in the area selected for the wheelchair securement system. This could happen if the area selected to be the wheelchair restraint area is not aligned with a pillar between windows. As a result the prior art systems limit the number of possible seating configurations for a bus.

Furthermore the prior art barriers include belt retractors which are usually attached to the legs of the barrier. The prior art belt retractors stick outwardly from the barrier and as such encroach into an area which otherwise could be occupied by seated or standing passengers when not utilized by wheelchair passengers and present a tripping hazard.

The embodiments described and claimed herein solve at least some of the problems of the prior art wheelchair restraint systems. For example a first embodiment comprises a barrier having an integrated shoulder belt assembly. Rather than being mounted to a sidewall of the transit vehicle like the prior art the shoulder belt assembly of the first embodiment is integrated into the barrier whereby the shoulder belt extends from an upper corner of the barrier near a side wall for convenient access by the wheelchair passenger. As a result the first embodiment provides a drop in wheelchair securement system that includes most of the necessary restraints for wheelchair passenger usually additional wheelchair restraints are required which attach to the front side of the wheelchair thereby preventing rearward movement of the wheelchair . For this reason a vehicle manufacturer can install the first embodiment much more easily and much more quickly as compared to the installation of the prior art systems. Unlike the prior art the system of the first embodiment requires only one installation step to install the rear wheelchair restraints the lap belt and the shoulder belt i.e. the first embodiment of the barrier need only be mounted to the interior of the bus. In addition the first embodiment provides greater flexibility for the interior designer. Since the first embodiment does not incorporate a sidewall mounted shoulder belt assembly the first embodiment need not be located near a pillar.

A second embodiment like the first embodiment comprises a barrier which includes an integrated shoulder belt assembly. However the shoulder belt assembly of the second embodiment is adjustable to accommodate wheelchair passengers of varying size.

A third embodiment comprises a barrier which incorporates an integrated telescoping shoulder belt assembly. In this embodiment the shoulder belt extends from or through a top end of a vertically mounted telescoping member. The telescoping member is movable from a first position wherein the telescoping member is disposed generally inside of the barrier to a second position wherein the telescoping member is in an extended position. In the first position the telescoping member is in a storage position wherein the telescoping member does not greatly encroach into space which could otherwise be used by a standing or seated passenger. In the second position the telescoping member is in an operable position for a wheelchair passenger whereby a distal end of the shoulder belt i.e. the pin connector is disposed approximately above a shoulder of the wheelchair passenger within easy reach.

A fourth embodiment comprises a barrier having integrated lap belt assemblies which are mounted at least partially inside of the barrier such that the lap belt assemblies do not significantly protrude beyond an outside surface of the barrier. As compared to the prior art lap belt assemblies which are mounted to an outside surface of the barrier legs the fourth embodiment is not obtrusive and does not encroach in space that could otherwise be used by standing and seated passengers. Furthermore the internally mounted lap belt assemblies do not present a tripping hazard like the prior art systems.

Other embodiments which include some combination of the features discussed above and below and other features which are known in the art are contemplated as falling within the claims even if such embodiments are not specifically identified and discussed herein.

It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale and that the embodiments are sometimes illustrated by graphic symbols phantom lines diagrammatic representations and fragmentary views. In certain instances details which are not necessary for an understanding of the embodiments described and claimed herein or which render other details difficult to perceive may have been omitted. It should be understood of course that the inventions described herein are not necessarily limited to the particular embodiments illustrated. Indeed it is expected that persons of ordinary skill in the art may devise a number of alternative configurations that are similar and equivalent to the embodiments shown and described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims.

Like reference numerals will be used to refer to like or similar parts from Figure to Figure in the following detailed description of the drawings.

Referring first to one embodiment of a forward facing wheelchair securement system is shown for securing a wheelchair and its occupant in a transit vehicle . The wheelchair securement system is best characterized as a drop in system for a transit vehicle which is fully equipped to secure a wheelchair and its passenger from the rear side. In other words the shown system is intended to be fully assembled for a vehicle manufacturer and needs only to be bolted into place without any further significant installation although it may be necessary to install additional wheelchair restraints forward of the wheelchair to prevent rearward movement of the wheelchair. The system is intended to be disposed in a vehicle such as a bus van train aircraft boat or the like between forward facing seating areas and side facing seating areas. The side seating areas include stowable seats or the like such as a fold up seat so that the seats can be stowed away when a wheelchair passenger boards the vehicle as depicted in . Although depicted in conjunction with a side facing seating area it is contemplated that the system can be used in conjunction with forward facing seating. In that case the system would include a forward facing stowable seat or the like.

Referring now primarily to the wheelchair securement system generally comprises a barrier which has two legs for engagement with a floor of the vehicle . Although shown with two legs any number of leg s is contemplated including a single leg. Furthermore although the figures depict the barrier being engaged with a floor of the vehicle it is contemplated that the barrier could include supports which engage with a sidewall or even a ceiling of the vehicle.

The barrier also includes two integral lap belt assemblies and two integral wheelchair restraint assemblies which are mounted internal to the barrier and at least partially within the two legs . Although contemplates the retractors being mounted internal to the barrier it should be understood that other embodiments could include retractors mounted external to the barrier . As shown the only portion of the assemblies that protrude from the barrier are the lap belts the lap belt buckle or connector the restraint belts and the wheelchair fasteners . One of the lap belt assemblies includes a male connector and the other lap belt assembly includes a female connector . With regards to the restraint assemblies each of the assemblies includes a wheelchair fastener which could be any type of fastener known to a person of ordinary skill in the art. The shown fastener is an anchor or S hook which can be easily attached to and easily removed from any portion of wheelchair such as a structural member.

The barrier also includes an integrated shoulder belt assembly and telescoping member . As depicted the shoulder belt assembly includes a shoulder belt and a connector for connecting to either or both of the male and female connectors . Alternatively the shoulder belt could attach at any point on the lap belt assemblies . Although the shoulder belt assembly would be functionally operable if fixed in the lowered position as depicted in the shoulder belt assembly incorporates a telescoping member . As shown in the telescoping member is in a retracted position inside of the barrier such that it does not encroach into space that could otherwise be used by standing or seated passengers. However when a wheelchair passenger boards the vehicle the telescoping member can extend upwardly out of the barrier to elevate the shoulder belt to a suitable height above a shoulder of the wheelchair occupant as shown in .

The telescoping member could be manually operable wherein the user would pull the member upwardly to the extended position. In such a case locking members could be used to lock the telescoping member in the extended position and or at the retracted position. In addition the locking members could be adapted to lock the telescoping member at varying heights to accommodate passengers of varying height.

The barrier could also include mechanical means for extending and or retracting the telescoping member . For example a gas or coiled spring could be used to bias the telescoping member towards the extended or retracted position. If towards the extended position a locking member could be used to lock the telescoping member in the retracted position. To extend the telescoping member the user would simply release the locking member through a hand or foot release lever or through electronic means. To retract the telescoping member the user would simply push the telescoping member to the retracted position and engage the locking member. The opposite would apply if the spring biased the telescoping member towards the retracted position.

Alternatively a two way pneumatic cylinder or an electric motor could be used to extend and retract the telescoping member . Controls for the member could be provided near the barrier or at a remote location such as the driver s station.

As depicted best by the lap belts and are adapted to be drawn across the lap of a wheelchair passenger and connected together to adequately secure the passenger . Likewise the shoulder belt is adapted to be drawn across the shoulder of the wheelchair passenger and connected with the lap belt. Referring now to the connections are shown. As discussed above one of the lap belts terminates with a female connector while the other of the lap belts terminates with a male connector . The shoulder belt terminates in a connector including a keyhole shaped aperture . Both of the lap belts are adapted to be retractable such that the connectors meet near a wheelchair passenger s pelvic area. However it is contemplated that one of belts could be fixed whereby the connectors could meet near the wheelchair passenger s hip. The female connector includes a release button for releasing the male connector while the male connector includes a pin connector for engagement with the keyhole shaped aperture of the shoulder belt connector . However the shoulder belt connector can be adapted to connect at any point on the lap belt assembly such as either the female connector or male connector in any suitable manner. For example the shoulder belt connector could be integrated into the male connector as shown in .

Referring now to another embodiment of a forward facing wheelchair securement system is shown which is adapted to be installed in a transit vehicle for securing a wheelchair and its occupant . This embodiment of the wheelchair securement system like the previously described system is best characterized as a drop in system for a transit vehicle . In other words the shown system can be fully assembled for a vehicle manufacturer and needs only to be bolted into place without any further significant installation although it may be necessary to install additional wheelchair restraints forward of the wheelchair to prevent rearward movement of the wheelchair. The system can be disposed in a transit vehicle such as a bus train aircraft boat or the like between forward facing seating areas and side facing seating areas although it is contemplated that it could also be installed between similar arranged seating areas.

The wheelchair securement system comprises a barrier with two flanges or brackets for engagement with a floor of a vehicle . Although shown with two flanges any number of flanges s is contemplated including a single flange. Furthermore although the figures depict the barrier being engaged with a floor of the vehicle it is contemplated that the barrier could include flanges which engage with a sidewall or even a ceiling of the vehicle.

The barrier also includes two integral lap belt assemblies two integral wheelchair restraint assemblies and an integral shoulder belt assembly each of which are disposed generally inside of the barrier. As shown in each of the assemblies and include retractors which are mounted to the internal frame of the barrier . At least one access panel is also provided on the barrier to provide access to the internal components for maintenance purposes. Although the figures show the retractors being mounted internal to the barrier it is contemplated that other embodiments could include retractors mounted external to the barrier .

Referring again to both the assemblies include panels which are generally flush with an external surface of the barrier . The panels include slots through which the straps and belts pass from the interior to the exterior of the barrier. As shown the panels are separate components which attach to the barrier however it is contemplated that the panels could be integrated into the outer body or shell of the barrier . Moreover although the panel is shown fixed relative to the barrier it is contemplated that the panel and its associated slot could be movable along a vertical axis and or a horizontal axis to accommodate passengers of varying height.

As shown the only portion of the assemblies that protrude from the barrier are the lap belts the lap belt buckle or connector the shoulder belt the shoulder belt connector the restraint belts and the wheelchair fasteners . One of the lap belt assemblies includes a male connector and the other lap belt assembly includes a female connector . With regards to the restraint assemblies each of the assemblies includes a wheelchair fastener which could be any type of fastener known to a person of ordinary skill in the art. The shown fastener is an anchor which can be easily attached to and easily removed from any portion of wheelchair such as a structural member.

The wheelchair barrier includes retaining members to hold the belts and straps when not in use. The retaining members not only reduce the noise associated with the connectors and fasteners but also reduces potential damage to the barrier. Without the retaining members the connectors and fasteners would otherwise be free to vibrate and bang up against the barrier as the vehicle was in use. Moreover the retaining members hold the connectors and fasteners flush up against the barrier thereby reducing any potential tripping hazard for passengers. As shown in the figures the retaining members are peg like structures while the retaining member is a male connector the retaining member is a female connector and the retaining member is a pin connector like structure.

The wheelchair barrier also includes a remote control device with a release latch for releasing one or more of the retractors . For example the embodiments could include the system described in provisional application No. 60 705 452 and PCT application no. PCT US06 30085 which are incorporated herein by reference .

Finally and with reference to yet another embodiment of a forward facing wheelchair securement system is shown which is adapted to be installed in a transit vehicle for securing a wheelchair and its occupant . This embodiment of the wheelchair securement system includes both a barrier module and a side seating area module to form an essentially complete drop in system. In the shown embodiment the barrier module is connectable to the side seating module at flange areas although the two modules could be pre assembled or integrally formed by the manufacturer. The barrier is nearly identical to the previously discussed embodiment of the barrier although it is contemplated that the first embodiment or any other version of the barrier could also be used. The side seating area includes a stowable or flip seat to accommodate wheelchair passengers.

Although the inventions described and claimed herein have been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments one skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventions described and claimed herein can be practiced by other than those embodiments which have been presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein.

