---

title: Fiber optic laser accelerometer
abstract: An accelerometer is provided for a fiber optic laser. Strain applied to the fiber optic laser results in an emission wavelength shift. The fiber optic laser is joined to a transducer and extends laterally across said transducer. Acceleration of the transducer in a predefined direction causes strain in said fiber optic laser. The transducer can have many possible designs. There is further provided a system for sensing acceleration which includes a pumping laser and a distributor joined to the fiber optic laser. Return signals from the fiber optic laser are provided to an interferometer and analysis circuitry. In the absence of a transducer, the system can operate as a strain sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07802474&OS=07802474&RS=07802474
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07802474
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071105
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a fiber optic sensors and more particularly to a fiber optic accelerometer.

Linear fiber optic arrays are used in Navy tactical and surveillance towed array applications as well as commercial towed seismic streamer applications for oil and gas exploration. Linear arrays may also be used in ocean bottom applications or placed down oil wells for oil field monitoring.

Fiber optic sensor arrays use interferometers and lasers to interrogate a plurality of sensors formed in an optical fiber. Typically these sensors are made from a fiber optic sensing segment positioned between two reflective portions. The sensing segment is usually wound on a compliant mandrel. Acoustic pressure on the sensor results in strain in the fiber optic sensing segment. Strain in the fiber optic sensing segment is measured using the interferometer. Various schemes such as wavelength division multiplexing and time division multiplexing exist for increasing the number of sensors on a single optical fiber. Fiber optic sensor arrays are also known that use multiplexed fiber laser sensors to provide an acoustic pressure signal.

A newer type of electronic linear sonar array is a vector sensor array. A vector sensor array uses sensor elements that provide a vector reading of the acoustic field rather than just the scalar pressure. A typical form of the sensor element involves a combination of 2 or 3 orthogonal accelerometers and a pressure sensor.

Such a vector sensor array has several potential advantages over linear arrays of pressure sensors. Because of the added directionality of the individual element the gain is increased per unit array length. A single linear array can resolve the left right bearing ambiguity seen in pressure sensor arrays. Finally the array can increase effective gain against anisotropic background noise fields. Previous linear vector sensor arrays have used conventional non fiber optic accelerometers and pressure sensors combined with electronic telemetry. They have shared the same intensive complicated hand assembly techniques that have resulted in high cost and low reliability in pressure sensor arrays.

It is therefore the intent of this invention to provide a directional fiber optic accelerometer that can be used to form a linear array of vector sensors.

Accordingly there is provided an accelerometer utilizing a fiber optic laser. Strain applied to the fiber optic laser results in an emission wavelength shift. The fiber optic laser is joined to a transducer and extends laterally across the transducer. Acceleration of the transducer in a predefined direction causes strain in said fiber optic laser. The transducer can have many possible designs. There is further provided a system for sensing acceleration which includes a pumping laser and a distributor joined to the fiber optic laser. Return signals from the fiber optic laser are provided to an interferometer and analysis circuitry. In the absence of a transducer the system can operate as a strain sensor.

After coherent light passes through distributor it is absorbed by the doping material in fiber laser . Absorption of this light causes a gain inversion in the laser cavity that leads to laser emission. This causes fiber laser to emit a narrow single mode of light. Fiber laser is mounted to a transducer such that acceleration of the transducer material is made to provide strain of the fiber laser cavity. Strain of the fiber laser cavity shifts the emission wavelength of the fiber laser . Transducer can have a wide variety of constructions that will be discussed hereinafter.

Fiber laser emission returns along fiber to wavelength division multiplexer where it is separated onto analysis path . An interferometer such as a Mach Zehnder interferometer is positioned on analysis path . Interferometer converts the shifted emission wavelength of fiber laser into a phase shift of the fiber laser light. Interferometer typically includes a first beam splitter A having a delay loop B on one leg and a modulator C on the second leg. Signals from the delay loop B and modulator C are combined in a second beam splitter D to produce the phase shifted signal. Other designs can produce the same type of signal. A receiver receives the phase shifted signal. Receiver is capable of demodulating and detecting the signal from the fiber laser by various methods well known in the art. The signal from the fiber laser gives an indication of strain in the fiber laser.

The volume in between flaps can be a vacuum gas liquid or solid however it should allow movement of flaps . A gas liquid or solid could provide damping if necessary. The combined top surfaces of the flaps forms an interrupted curved surface . The fiber laser or fiber extending beyond fiber laser is mounted under tension across the top surfaces of the flaps and fixed to the outer two flaps with an adhesive such as ultra violet cured epoxy. Adhesive may interfere with fiber laser if applied to the laser grating region. Therefore the adhesive is preferably applied to the fiber region outside of the laser grating. Mounting to the outermost flaps reduces the constraint on the ends of the fiber laser and yields greater sensitivity to acceleration.

Interrupted curved surface allows fiber laser contact with all of the flap upper surfaces . Friction holds the fiber laser in place laterally. The body of each flap serves as an inertial mass. When transducer is accelerated away from fiber laser flaps move toward fiber laser and outward from the center due to the angle of the flaps . This causes an unsupported portion of the fiber laser between the centermost two flaps to be further tensioned shifting the fiber laser emission frequency. The outer flaps move with the inner flaps and produce additional strain on the fiber portion at center . The outer flaps also add their mass to the response to the acceleration.

The fiber laser strain sensitivity is weighted by the mode profile. In a feedback laser this is a strong exponential function centered at the center of the fiber laser . Because of this while the laser may be 50 mm long the effective sensitive length may be only 8 mm. It is this effective length which is positioned between the center two flaps . The flaps have sufficient width in the direction perpendicular to the direction being sensed to ensure that the flaps are much more stiff against motion in that direction. This stiffness in the transverse direction ensures that the accelerometer has good isolation against responding to accelerations in that direction known as cross axis isolation. Transducer structure also provides good isolation against longitudinal accelerations in the direction parallel to the fiber laser. In this direction the half of the flaps on one side of the center move upward and outward while the half of the flaps on the other side of the center move downward and inward. These two motions tend to cancel producing little net strain on the center of the fiber laser .

The unsupported fiber portion between the center two flaps can also vibrate in a string mode. This mode is undesirable because it is equally susceptible to acceleration in both directions transverse to the fiber laser . Thus it is desirable to minimize this mode and push its resonance to a frequency above that in the sensing range. The response of this mode is controlled by mounting the fiber laser to the transducer with sufficient tension. The embodiment shown in minimizes this tension.

It is possible to build transducer with only one flap instead of two opposing flaps . However this cuts the strain response roughly in half and does not provide the rejection against longitudinal acceleration.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

