---

title: Architectural design for service procurement application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing service procurement. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include a Project Processing process component; a Purchase Request Processing process component; a Purchase Order Processing process component; a Purchasing Contract process component; a Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component; an RFQ Processing process component; and a Time and Labor Management process component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08447657&OS=08447657&RS=08447657
owner: SAP AG
number: 08447657
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071231
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for service procurement.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for a software application implementing service procurement.

In its various aspects the subject matter described in the specification can be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing service procurement. The software application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces and multiple service operations each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include a Project Processing process component a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component a Purchasing Contract Processing process component a Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component a Supplier Invoice Processing process component an RFQ Processing process component an Accounting process component a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component a Due Item Processing process component a Payment Processing process component an Internal Request Processing process component and a Time and Labor Management process component.

In its various aspects the subject matter can further be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products implementing a software architecture design for a software application that is adapted to interact with external software systems through the service operations described in reference to external process components or a subcombination of them.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in the service procurement design includes a Financial Accounting deployment unit a Project Management deployment unit a Purchasing deployment unit a Supplier Invoicing deployment unit a Payment deployment unit a Strategic Sourcing deployment unit a Due Item Management deployment unit a Requisitioning deployment unit and a Human Capital Management deployment unit .

The Financial Accounting deployment unit includes an Accounting process component that represents relevant business transactions for valuation and profitability analysis.

The Project Management deployment unit includes a Project Processing process component that is responsible for structuring planning and executing measures or projects e.g. short term measures complex projects etc .

The Purchasing deployment unit includes a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component a Purchase Contract Processing process component and a Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The Purchase Request Processing process component handles the creation change or processing of purchase requests to locate appropriate external sources of supply. The Purchase Order Processing process component handles the creation and maintenance of purchase orders and purchase order confirmations. The Purchasing Contract Processing process component handles the creation and maintenance of purchasing contracts. The Purchasing Contract Processing process component includes a Purchasing Contract business object. The Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component represents a confirmation by an employee of goods received or services rendered.

The Supplier Invoicing deployment unit includes a Supplier Invoice Processing process component that represents management and volume processing of supplier invoices including exception handling and approval. The Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a supplier invoice business object and a supplier invoice request business object. The supplier invoice is a document that states the recipient s obligation to pay the supplier for goods received or services rendered. The invoice may be created after the goods and service acknowledgment has been confirmed. The supplier invoice request is a document that is sent to invoice verification advising that an invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected and may be created through evaluation settlement. The system uses the invoice request as a basis for invoice verification as well as for the automatic creation of the invoice.

The Payment deployment unit includes a Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component is used to handle the processing and management of all payments and is also responsible for the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks and provides the primary input for liquidity management.

The Strategic Sourcing Processing deployment unit includes an RFQ Processing process component . The RFQ Processing process component handles requests for quotes and supplier quotes for strategic as well as operational negotiation purposes. In general a request for quotation RFQ is a description of materials and services that purchasers use to request responses from potential suppliers. Requests for Quotation can be one of a number of types including a request for price information a request for quote that may run over a certain period of time a request for proposal in complex purchasing situation or live auctions that may be performed over a short time frame. A quote is a response to a request for quotation in which a supplier offers to sell goods and services at a certain price. The quote can be subject to complex pricing and conditions.

The Due Item Management deployment unit includes a Due Item Processing process component and a Balance Of Foreign Payment Management process component . The Due Item Processing process component is used to collect manage and monitor trade receivables or payables and corresponding taxes e.g. sales tax or withholding tax. The Balance Of Foreign Payment Management process component is used to collect process and report receivables and payables to foreign trade regulations that are required by the central banks to create the balance of payments of a country.

The Requisitioning deployment unit includes an Internal Request Processing process component . The Internal Request Processing process component handles the management and processing of internal requests from employees. Employees of a company may make an internal request for the procurement of goods or services for the company. For example the employees can order stationary computer hardware or removal services by creating an internal request. The internal request can be fulfilled by an issue of a purchase request to the purchasing department a reservation of goods from stock or a production request.

The Human Capital Management deployment unit includes a Time and Labor Management process component . The Time and Labor Management process component handles the management of employees planned working times and the recording and valuation of work performed and absence times.

The foundation layer described below includes a Source of Supply Determination process component an Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing process component and a Pricing Engine processing component . The Pricing Engine process component handles the processing of price and tax calculations. The Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing process component handles the registration and checking of all accounting objects that can be assigned in a source document for a business transaction such as cost center or project. The process component can dispatch a check request to the Financial Accounting deployment unit .

The Source of Supply Determination process component handles the maintenance of and access to sources of supply and quota arrangements for external and internal procurement processes. The Source of Supply Determination process component uses two business objects to determine a source of supply a supply quota arrangement business object and a source of supply business object. A supply quota arrangement is a distribution of material requirements or goods to different sources of supply business partners or organizational units within a company. An example of the use of supply quota arrangements is the distribution of material requirements between in house production and different sources for external procurement. A supply quota arrangement can also define the distribution of goods to customers in case of excess production or shortages. A source of supply is an object that describes a logical link between a possible source of products and a possible target.

A number of external process components described below will be used to describe the architectural design. These include a Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component a Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component a Payment Processing at Business Partner process component a Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component a Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component an External Tax Collection process component and an Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

The Pricing Engine process component requests a tax calculation from the External Tax Collection process component .

The RFQ Processing process component requests the creation or update of a supplier quote from the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component sends messages to and receives messages from the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier processing component which is used at a supplier to charge a customer for the delivery of goods or services. The Supplier Invoice Processing process component also sends messages to the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component .

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component receives messages from the Purchase Order Processing process component . The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component handles customers requests to a company for delivery of goods or services at a certain time. The requests can be received by a sales area which is then responsible for fulfilling the contract.

The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component the Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component and the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component can interact with the Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component sends updates to a Payment Processing at Business Partner processing component which is used to handle at the business partner all incoming and outgoing payments and represent the main data base for the liquidity status. The Payment Processing process component also receives messages from the Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component . The message can include a bank statement for a bank account. The Payment Processing process component send messages to the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The messages can include a bank payment order that is a payment order which will be sent to a house bank. The bank payment order can include bank transfers as well direct debits.

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit . It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

As shown in the Purchase Request Processing process component includes a Purchase Request business object . The Purchase Request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time. When a Purchase Request business object has been created changed or cancelled a notification can be sent using a Notify of Purchase Request to Project Processing outbound process agent . The process agent invokes a Notify of Purchase Request operation to notify the Project Processing process component about purchase requests that have project accounting information. The Notify of Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing Notification Out interface . A Purchase Request Notification message is generated and sent to the Project Processing process component . The message is handled in a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Notification operation . The operation changes a project purchase request based on a notification about the creation of a new purchase request or a change to an existing purchase request. The operation is included in a Purchasing Notification In interface . The operation uses a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Notification inbound process agent to update a Project Purchase Request business object about the creation of a purchase request for an external resource. The Project Purchase Request business object represents a request to purchasing for procurement of products that are required during a project. In some implementations a request can originate in a project. In other implementations a request can originate outside a project and is assigned to a project task as an accounting object.

As shown in the Purchase Request Processing process component includes the Purchase Request business object . The Purchase Request business object uses a Request RFQ Execution from Purchase Request to RFQ Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request RFQ Execution operation . The Request RFQ Execution operation sends an RFQ Execution Request message to the RFQ Processing process component . The Request RFQ Execution operation is included in a Request for Quote Out interface .

The RFQ Execution Request message is received by a Maintain RFQ Request operation in a Request for Quote In interface . The Maintain RFQ Request operation creates an RFQ request from business documents that are involved in the bidding or negotiation process. The operation initiates a Maintain RFQ inbound process agent to update an RFQ Request business object . The RFQ Request business object represents a request to the purchasing department to prepare a request for quote. A Confirm RFQ Request outbound process agent receives the request for quote which is created or updated from purchase request processing or from purchasing contract processing and invokes a Confirm RFQ Request operation . The Confirm RFQ Request operation is included in a Request for Quote Out Interface .

The Confirm RFQ Request operation sends an RFQ Execution Confirmation message to the Purchase Request Processing process component to confirm an RFQ execution. A Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution operation receives the RFQ Execution Confirmation message . The Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution operation is included in a Request for Quote In interface . The Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution operation uses a Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution inbound process agent to update the references of the purchase request in the Purchase Request business object . The Purchase Request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time.

As shown in a bank statement is created at a bank and a CA MT940 Bank Account Statement Notification message with statement information is generated. The CA MT940 Bank Account Statement Notification message uses Mapping Entity to transform the CA MT940 formatted message to a Bank Account Statement Notification message . The message is received in the Payment Processing process component where a Create Bank Statement operation is invoked to create a bank statement. The Create Bank Statement operation is included in a Bank Statement Processing In interface . A Maintain Bank Statement inbound process agent updates the House Bank Statement business object by creating a new bank statement. The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenue items within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance.

The Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component receives information from a CA MT940 Notify Of Bank Account Statement communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a bank statement.

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes an Employee Time Calendar business object . The Employee Time Calendar business object represents a read only calendar of time valuation results that can be derived from the recorded times of an employee. The Employee Time Calendar business object uses a Notify of Project Task Confirmation from Employee Time Calendar to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation . The Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation sends a project task confirmation notification to the Project Processing process component . For example the notification is sent when an active employee time item with project relevant information is created changed or cancelled. The Notify of Project Task Confirmation operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation Out interface . The operation generates a Project Task Confirmation Notification message .

A Change Project based on Employee Time Calendar operation receives the Project Task Confirmation Notification message . The operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation In interface . The Change Project based on Employee Time Calendar operation can be invoked to confirm or cancel actual work for tasks in projects. The operation uses a Change Project based on Employee Time Calendar inbound process agent to update a Project business object . The Project business object represents a business undertaking with a defined goal that can be attained in a specified time frame. The business undertaking can be achieved using predefined funds and planned resources while reaching an agreed quality level. The project can be characterized by the fact that it is unique and that it involves an element of risk.

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. In some implementations for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify Supplier of Invoice to a Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The operation sends a Receivables Payables Notification message to the Due Item Processing process component . The message is a notification about the receivables payables due for an invoice that has been paid. Alternatively the Notify Supplier of Invoice to a Due Item Processing outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation to cancel a previously sent notification for receivables payables due. Both operations and are included in a Receivables Payables Out interface . If the Notify of Invoice operation is invoked then the Receivables Payables Notification message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component . If the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation is invoked a Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component .

The Receivables Payables Notification message is received in a Create Receivables Payables operation . The Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message is received in a Cancel Receivables Payables operation . The operations and are included in a Receivables Payables In interface . If the Receivables Payables Notification message is received then the Create Receivables Payables operation is performed to create a trade and or tax receivable or payable. If the Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message is received then the Cancel Receivables Payables operation is performed to cancel a trade and or tax receivable or payable. The operations and use a Maintain Trade and Tax Receivables Payables inbound process agent to update one or more of three business objects including a Trade Receivables Payables Register business object a Tax Receivables Payables Register business object and a Due Clearing business object . The Trade Receivables Payables Register business object represents the register of trade receivables and payables of a company to or from its business partners. The Tax Receivables Payables Register business object represents the register of tax receivables and payables of a company for the delivered goods and rendered services between buyers and sellers the consumption of goods the transfer of goods and amounts withheld from payments to sellers. The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing. Clearing can refer to the amounts of the receivables and payables of a group balance to zero taking cash discounts and other deductions into account. The group can be payments and invoices that belong together but it can also be credit memos and invoices or customer and vendor invoices. A group can result uniquely from the invoice reference information of a payment.

As shown in the Project Processing process component includes the Project Purchase Request business object . The Project Purchase Request business object represents a request to purchasing to procure products that are used during a project. In some implementations the request can originate in a project or it can originate outside a project in which case it is assigned to a project task as an accounting object. The Project Purchase Request business object uses a Request Purchasing from Project Purchase Request to Purchase Request Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchasing operation . The operation requests the procurement of goods and or services. The Request Purchasing operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The Request Purchasing operation sends a Purchase Request Request message to the Purchase Request Processing process component .

A Maintain Purchase Request operation receives the message . The Maintain Purchase Request operation creates or updates a request from a requester to a purchaser in order to externally procure products materials and or services i.e. it creates or updates a purchase request . The operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The Maintain Purchase Request operation uses a Maintain Purchase Request inbound process agent to update the Purchase Request business object .

The Purchase Request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Request business object uses a Confirm Purchase Request outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Purchase Request operation . The operation confirms a creation change or cancellation of a purchase request to the requester. The Confirm Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation sends a Request Confirmation message to the Project Processing process component to confirm the creation change or cancellation of the purchase request.

A Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Confirmation operation receives the Purchase Request Confirmation message . The Change Project Purchase based on Purchase Request Confirmation operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The Change Project Purchase based on Purchase Request Confirmation operation changes the project purchase request based on a confirmation from purchasing about the degree to which a request has been fulfilled. The operation uses a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Project Purchase Request business object .

Interactions between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Payment Order business object . The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. A payment order can be a collective order that includes several individual orders.

The Payment Order business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation . The Notify of Payment operation is included in an Outgoing Payment Advicing Out interface . The Notify of Payment operation generates data to allow an assignment of payments to receivables payables at the business partner. The Notify of Payment operation sends a Payment Advice Notification message or a Form Payment Advice Notification to the Payment Processing at Business Partner processing component .

The Outgoing Payment Advicing Out interface receives a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. The Payment Processing at Business Partner processing component receives information from a Processing At Business Partner in XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner in Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. When the Purchase Order business object has been created changed or cancelled the Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to Project Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The operation creates changes or cancels a purchase order. The Notify of Purchase Order operation is included in an Ordering Notification Out interface . The operation generates a Purchase Order Notification message .

The Purchase Order Notification message is received in a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Order Notification operation . The operation is included in an Ordering Notification In interface . The operation uses a Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Order Notification inbound process agent to update the Project Purchase Request business object . The Change Project Purchase Request based on Purchase Order Notification operation changes the project purchase request based on a notification about the creation of a new purchase order or a change to an existing purchase order. The Project Purchase Request business object represents a request to purchasing to procure products that are required during a project. In some implementations the request can originate in a project or it can originate outside a project in which case it must be assigned to a project task as an accounting object.

As shown in the RFQ Processing process component includes a Supplier Quote business object . The Supplier Quote business object represents a response to a request for quote in which a bidder offers to sell goods and services to a buyer according to the requested criteria.

The Supplier Quote business object uses a Request Purchase Order from Supplier Quote to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation . The operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation requests a purchase order based on the awarded respective winning supplier quote. The Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation generates a Supplier Quote Award Notification message .

A Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation receives the message . The operation is included in a Quote Award Notification In interface . The operation creates a purchase order based on data included in a winning supplier quote. For example if the supplier quote refers to a purchase request data from the purchase request items are added by the operation to complete the purchase order. The Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation uses a Maintain Purchase Order based on Winning Quote inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

As shown in the Internal Request Processing process component includes an Internal Request business object . The Internal Request business object represents a request from an employee of a company for the procurement of goods or services for their own or for company use.

The Internal Request business object uses a Request Purchasing from Internal Request to Purchase Request Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchasing operation . The operation requests the purchase of materials and or services. The operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The Request Purchasing operation generates a Purchase Request Request message .

A Maintain Purchase Request operation receives the Purchase Request Request message . The operation creates or updates a request from a requestor to a purchaser to externally procure materials and or services i.e. it creates or updates a purchase request . The operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Purchase Request inbound process agent to update the Purchase Request business object . The Purchase Request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Request business object uses a Confirm Purchase Request outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Purchase Request operation . The operation confirms the creation change or cancellation of a purchase request to the requestor. The Confirm Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation generates a Purchase Request Confirmation message .

A Change Internal Request based on Purchase Request operation receives the Purchase Request Confirmation message . The operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The operation confirms the creation change or cancellation of a purchase request to the requester. The operation uses a Change Internal Request based on Purchase Request inbound process agent to update the Internal Request business object .

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Due Payment business object a Product Tax Declaration business object and a Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables and receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that trigger the payment to the tax authority. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Item business object uses a Synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke one or more operations including a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation and a Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation can request payment information with a provisional reservation of money in payment processing. The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation can request payment information with a change of provisional reservation of money in payment processing. The Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Cancellation operation can register a change of a provisional payment to the last transactional or saved state.

If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Request message . If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . If the Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message .

The Due Payment business object also uses a Request Payment from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment operation or a Request Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in the Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment operation sends a request for payment to the Payment Processing process component . This confirms a previously made provisional payment. The Request Payment Cancellation operation cancels at least one provisional requested or ordered payment. If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Product Tax Declaration business object uses a Request Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Request Payment from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

As shown in a Create Payment Reservation operation receives the Payment Order Reservation Request message . The operation uses a synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to create change or cancel a payment order for a reservation request. The synchronous inbound process agent updates the Payment Order business object . The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. A payment order can be a collective order that includes several individual orders.

A synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation receives a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . The operation uses the synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object .

A Change Payment Reservation operation receives the Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message . A Create Payment Order operation receives the Payment Order Request message . A Cancel Payment Order operation receives the Payment Order Cancellation Request message . The operations and use a Maintain Payment Order inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object . The Cancel Payment Order operation cancels a previously sent payment request by reference. The Create Payment Order operation cancels a request for payment. The operations and are included in a Payment Request In interface .

The Payment Order business object uses a Confirm Payment Request from Payment Order to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Payment Request operation . The operation confirms a processing status of a payment to a sender. The operation is included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Confirm Payment Request operation generates a Payment Order Confirmation message .

As shown in the Payment Order Confirmation message is received in a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation . The operation confirms the execution of a payment request or a payment request cancellation. The operation is included in a Payment Request In interface . The Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation uses a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Due Payment business object .

The Create Payment Reservation operation shown in sends a Payment Order Reservation Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message is a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation .

The Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation shown in sends a Payment Order Reservation Change Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message is a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation .

Interactions between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Order Processing at House Bank 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Payment Order business object . The Bank Payment Order business object represents an order to a house bank to make a transfer or direct debit from a specified house bank account to fulfill a payment order. The house bank can be a bank located in France.

The Bank Payment Order business object uses a Request File Based Payment Order from Bank Payment Order to House Bank outbound process agent to invoke a Request File based Payment Order operation . The Request File based Payment Order operation instructs a house bank using a file to make a bank transfer or a direct debit. The operation is included in a Payment Ordering Out interface . The Request File based Payment Order operation generates a File based Collective Payment Order Request message . The File based Collective Payment Order Request message uses Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Collective Payment Order Request message that can be received by the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Collective Payment Order Request message is in a format that the house bank a bank located in France can understand. A collective payment order can be an instruction based on a file transfer to a credit institution to carry out one or more payment transactions e.g. bank transfers or direct debits . The Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component receives information from a Payment Order Request communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from a third party about a payment order request.

Interactions between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier and Supplier Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component receives a Business Transaction Document Image Recognition Request message . A Create Invoice based on Attachment operation receives the message and creates an empty supplier invoice with an attachment of an invoice image according to legally binding claims or liabilities for delivered goods and rendered services. The Create Invoice based on Attachment operation is included in an Image Recognition Invoicing In interface . The operation uses a Create Supplier Invoice based on Attachment inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes the Due Clearing business object the Due Payment business object the Product Tax Declaration business object a Withholding Tax Declaration business object and the Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing. The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables or receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority if required. The Withholding Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of withholding tax payables of a company to a tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Clearing business object uses a Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface .

The Due Payment business object uses a Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Product Tax Declaration business object uses a Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Withholding Tax Declaration business object uses a Notify of Payment from to Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Notify of Payment operation is invoked if a VAT value added tax declaration is released. The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked if the VAT declaration is cancelled.

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Accounting Notification message . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

The Payment Accounting Notification message is received in a Create Accounting Document operation . The Create Accounting Document operation handles the Payment Accounting Notification message . The Create Accounting Document operation is included in a Payment Accounting In interface .

The Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is received in a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The Cancel Accounting Document operation handles the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The Cancel Accounting Document operation is included in a Payment Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation both use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component includes a Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object can represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object uses a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation or a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation . The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation notifies the Accounting process component about delivered goods and rendered services of a goods and service acknowledgement. The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation notifies the Accounting process component about goods and service acknowledgement cancellation. The operations and are included in a Goods and Service Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation generates a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the message . The Create Accounting Document operation receives goods movement resource consumption notification from the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The Create Accounting Document operation is included in a Goods and Service Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Description inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object can represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation generates a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation in the Goods and Service Accounting In interface receives the Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation Request message from the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation receives a goods movement resource consumption cancellation request from the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on the Goods and Service Acknowledgement Description inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Interactions between Process Components Purchasing Contract Processing and Supplier Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Purchasing Contract Processing process component includes a Purchasing Contract business object . The business object represents a legally binding purchase agreement that can includes special conditions that are negotiated between a buyer and a seller covering goods to be supplied or services to be performed. The purchase agreement can be valid for a specific period during which goods and services are released against the contract.

The Purchasing Contract business object uses a Notify of Invoicing Due from Purchasing Contract to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The operation creates a new supplier invoicing request or updates an existing supplier invoice request from a released Purchasing Contract. The Notify of Invoicing Due operation generates an Invoicing Due Notification message .

A Maintain Invoice Request operation receives the Invoicing Due Notification message . The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The Maintain Invoice Request operation creates or updates a reference object in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component in order to perform invoice verification with reference to a purchase order without having to access other deployment units. The reference object can be used for checks against the preceding documents and to make proposals for invoice entry. The Maintain Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a request sent to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected and can be created through evaluation settlement.

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay the supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Supplier Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The Notify of Invoice operation and the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation are included in an Invoice Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation forwards accounting relevant information about a billing document e.g. invoice credit memo to the Accounting process component in order to assure posting. The Notify of Invoice operation generates an Invoice Accounting Notification message .

The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation cancels accounting relevant information about a billing document e.g. invoice credit memo . The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation generates an Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the Invoice Accounting Notification message . The operation creates an accounting document for a customer invoice or supplier invoice. For example the accounting document records payables receivables expenses and revenues for the invoice in the Accounting process component . The Create Accounting Document operation is included in an Invoice Accounting In interface .

A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The operation receives an invoice accounting cancellation request from the Customer Invoice Processing process component or the supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation is included in the Invoice Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation both use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. The Accounting Notification business object can represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or to perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Invoicing Due from Purchase Order to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation notifies a supplier invoice about an invoice due or when a purchase order has been created changed or cancelled. The Notify of Invoicing Due operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The operation generates an Invoicing Due Notification message .

A Maintain Invoice Request operation receives the Invoicing Due Notification message . The operation creates or updates a reference object in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component in order to perform invoice verification with reference to a purchase order without having to access other deployment units. The reference object is used for checks against the preceding documents and to make proposals for invoice entry. The Maintain Invoice Request operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface .

A Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent updates invoice data into a Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a request that is sent to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected or is to be created through evaluation settlement.

The business object uses a Notify of Invoiced Values from Supplier Invoice Request to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice Values operation . The Notify of Invoice Values operation notifies the Purchase Order Processing process component that at least parts of the purchase order have been invoiced. The operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The Notify of Invoice Values operation generates a Purchase Order Invoice Values Notification message .

The message is received in a Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation . The Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation changes a purchase order based on invoice values by adding the quantity and amount of a supplier invoice to the cumulated invoiced quantity and amount in a purchase order. The operation can also add the reference to the supplier invoice document to the purchase order. The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation uses a Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object .

Interactions between Process Components Goods and Service Acknowledgement and Supplier Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component includes the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a document that reports the receipt of goods and services.

The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object uses a Notify of Invoicing Due from GSA Goods and Service Acknowledgement to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation notifies the Goods And Service Acknowledgement process component of a goods and service acknowledgement due for invoicing. The operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface. The Notify of Invoicing Due operation generates an Invoicing Due Notification message .

A Maintain Invoice Request operation receives the Invoicing Due Notification message . The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The operation creates or updates a reference object in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component in order to perform invoice verification with reference to a purchase order without having to access other logical deployment units. The reference object can be used for checks against the preceding documents and to make proposals for invoice entry.

The Maintain Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a request that is sent to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected or is to be created through evaluation settlement.

As shown in The Project Processing process component includes the Project business object . The Project business object represents a business undertaking with a defined goal that can be attained in a specified time frame. The business undertaking can be achieved using predefined funds and planned resources while reaching an agreed quality level. The project can be characterized by the fact that it is unique and that it involves an element of risk.

The Project business object uses a Notify of Project to Time and Labor Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project operation . The Notify of Project operation provides information about tasks and assigned employees in a project. The Notify of Project operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation Out interface . The operation generates an Employee Time Confirmation View of Project Notification message

A Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View Of Project operation receives the Employee Time Confirmation View of Project Notification message . The Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View Of Project operation maintains the Employee Time Confirmation View Of Project business object based on changes of the Project business object in the Project Processing process component . The operation is included in a Project Task Confirmation In interface . The Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View Of Project operation uses a Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View on Project inbound process agent to update an Employee Time Confirmation View Of Project business object . The Employee Time Confirmation View on Project business object represents a view on a project restricted to those project tasks for which employee times are confirmed.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing component includes the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses the Notify of Purchase Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The Notify of Purchase Order operation notifies about a created changed or cancelled purchase order. The operation is included in an Order Accounting Out interface . The operation generates a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Notification operation receives the Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message . The operation receives order accounting notification from the Purchase Order Processing process component . The notification can inform the Accounting process component about the creation change or deletion of any kind of order business objects. The operation is included in a Sales and Order Purchasing Accounting In interface . The Create Accounting Notification operation uses a Maintain Subledger Account based Sales and Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object can represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Incoming Check business object a Check Deposit business object the Payment Order business object the House Bank Statement business object a Payment Allocation business object a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object a Bill of Exchange Deposit business object and a Cash Transfer business object . The Incoming Check business object represents a check issued by a business partner payable to the company. The Check Deposit business object represents a deposit of checks at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Payment Allocation business object represents an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. For example a payment order can be a collective order that includes several individual orders. The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues items within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance. The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object represents a bill of exchange issued either by the company or by a business partner for the benefit of the company. The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object represents a deposit of bills of exchange receivable at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Cash Transfer business object represents a company internal money transfer that can include the following payments from one house bank account to another house bank account transfer from one cash storage to another cash transfer from a cash storage to a house bank account cash deposit from a house bank account to a cash storage cash withdrawal .

The Incoming check business object uses a Notify of Payment from Incoming Check to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface .

The Check Deposit business object uses a Notify of Payment from Check Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Order business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The House Bank Statement business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bank Statement to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Allocation business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Allocation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Cash Transfer business object uses a Notify of Payment Cash Transfer to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Accounting Notification message . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the Payment Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface . The operations and use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object can represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Interactions between Process Components Purchase Order Processing and Sales Order Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object and a Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The Purchase Order Confirmation business object represents a confirmation from a seller to deliver a specified quantity of goods or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses a Request Purchase Order to Supplier outbound process agent to request a purchase order at a supplier. The outbound process agent invokes either a Request Purchase Order Creation operation or a Request Purchase Order Change operation . The operations and are included in an Ordering Out interface .

The Request Purchase Order Creation operation requests a purchase order from a supplier. The operation generates an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message . The Request Purchase Order Change operation requests a change of a purchase order that was formerly ordered at a supplier. The operation can also generate an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message .

The Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message is received at the external Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component . The external process component can confirm the purchase order request by generating an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request Message . The Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message uses Mapping Entity to transform the interactive form based message type to a Purchase Order Confirmation message that can be received by the Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation .

The operation creates a purchase order confirmation according to the confirmation partial confirmation or proposed changes sent from the seller to the buyer concerning the requested delivery of the product to trigger the creation of a purchase order confirmation. The Purchase Order Confirmation message is included in an Ordering In interface . The operation uses a Create Purchase Order Confirmation inbound process component to update the Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The Ordering In interface receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

Interactions between Process Components RFQ Processing and Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the RFQ Processing process component includes a Request for Quote business object and the Supplier Quote business object . The Request for Quote business object represents a request from a buyer to a bidder to submit a quote for goods or services according to a set of specified criteria. The Supplier Quote business object represents a response to a quote request in which a bidder offers to sell goods and services to a buyer according to requested criteria.

The RFQ Processing process component also includes a Request Quote Processing Out interface a Quote Processing In interface and a Quote Processing Out interface . The Request Quote Processing Out interface includes a Request Quote Creation operation a Notify of Request for Quote Change operation and a Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation . The Request Quote Creation operation requests the participation of the supplier in a bidding process. The Notify of Request for Quote Change operation notifies the supplier about changes to the request for quote. The Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation notifies the supplier about the cancellation of a request for quote. The Request Quote Processing Out interface receives information from a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

The Quote Processing In interface includes a Maintain Supplier Quote operation that creates or updates a supplier quote on the basis of the received customer quote which was sent in response to the invitation from the buyer to submit a quotation.

The Quote Processing Out interface includes a Request Quote Change operation and a Notify of Quote Award operation . The Request Quote Change operation requests the change of the customer quote. The Notify of Quote Award operation notifies the bidder about supplier quote items for which the quotation from the bidder has been awarded including extending the award or about a rejection if the quotation from the bidder is not successful. The Quote Processing Out interface receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

The Request for Quote business object uses a Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent when the Request for Quote business object is published re published or cancelled. The Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent invokes the Request Quote Creation operation to send a Form RFQ Request message or an RFQ Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component . The Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent can also invoke the Notify of Request for Quote Change operation to send a Form RFQ Change Request message or an RFQ Change Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component . The Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent can also invoke the Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation to send an RFQ Cancellation Request message or a Form RFQ Cancellation Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

A Quote Notification message is received by a Maintain Supplier Quote operation that uses a Maintain Supplier Quote inbound process agent to create or update the Supplier Quote business object .

The Supplier Quote business object uses a Notify of Supplier Quote to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke the Request Quote Change operation when a supplier quote is submitted. The Request Quote Change operation sends a RFQ Change Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component . The Notify of Supplier Quote to Supplier outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Quote Award operation when a supplier quote is submitted. The Notify of Quote Award operation sends an RFQ Result Notification message or a Form RFQ Result Notification message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

Interactions between Process Components Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing and Project Processing 

As shown in the Accounting Coding Block Distribution Processing process component includes an Accounting Coding Block Distribution business object . The Accounting Coding Block Distribution business object represents a distribution of coding blocks to enterprise resource changes such as expenses or material movements. A Coding Block can be a set of accounting objects to which an enterprise resource change is assigned. The resource change can be assigned a value in an accounting process.

A Synchronous Request Project Task Accountability Information from Accounting Coding Block Distribution to Project Processing outbound process agent uses a Request Project Task Accountability Information operation to generate either an Accounting Object Check Request message or an Accounting Object Check Confirmation message . The Request Project Task Accountability Information operation is included in a Project Task Accountability Out interface . The operation can check given tasks for existence and availability for expense or resource assignment in financial accounting. The check can take place in the Project Processing process component .

A Check Project Task Accountability operation receives the Accounting Object Check Request message or the Accounting Object Check Confirmation message . The operation is included in a Project Task Accountability In interface and can check whether a task can be posted for accounting. The operation uses a Synchronous Check Project Task Accountability inbound process agent to update the Project business object . The Project business object represents a business undertaking with a defined goal that can be attained in a specified time frame. The business undertaking can be achieved using predefined funds and planned resources while reaching an agreed quality level. The project can be characterized by the fact that it is unique and that it involves an element of risk.

Interactions between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify Supplier of Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The operation notifies the Balance Of Foreign Payment Management process component about the foreign receivables payables of the supplier invoice. Alternatively a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation can be used to notify the process component about the cancellation of a previously sent notification for foreign receivables payables of the supplier invoice. Both operations are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message . The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message .

The messages and are received by a Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation and a Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation respectively. The Foreign Receivable Payable operation creates a foreign receivable or payable. The Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation and the Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface .

Operations and use a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to create change or cancel a foreign receivable or payable in a Foreign Receivable Payable business object . The Foreign Receivable Payable business object represents a receivable from or payable to a non resident business partner.

Interactions between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier and Supplier Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Request Evaluated Receipt Settlement ERS Invoice to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke a Request ERS Invoice operation . The operation can inform the seller party about a supplier invoice created by the buyer party using a credit memo procedure e.g. Evaluated Receipt Settlement ERS . The process starts when an invoice which has been created from a business to business interface is posted accepted or deleted rejected and an answer is expected. The Request Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoice operation is included in an Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoicing Out interface . The operation generates an Invoice Request message or a Form Invoice Request message which can both be sent to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component . The Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoicing Out interface receives information from a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Pricing Engine process component includes a Price and Tax Calculation business object and a Tax Calculation business object . The Price and Tax Calculation business object represents a summary of the determined price and tax components for a business case. The Tax Calculation business object represents a summary of the determined and calculated tax elements of a business case.

The Price and Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Price and Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Tax Calculation operation . The Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation outbound process agent to invoke the Request Product Tax Calculation operation to calculate the product tax for a current document. The operation requests a product tax calculation from the External Tax Calculation process component . The Request Product Tax Calculation operation is included in an External Tax Calculation Out interface . The Request Product Tax Calculation operation generates an External Product Tax Calculation Request message or an External Product Tax Calculation Confirmation message . The messages can be received by the External Tax Calculation process component .

The External Tax Calculation Out interface receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation. The External Tax Calculation process component receives information from a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions between Process Components Time and Labor Management and Goods and Service Acknowledgement 

As shown in the Time and Labor Management process component includes the Employee Time Calendar business object . The Employee Time Calendar business object represents a read only calendar representation of time valuation results that are derived from the recorded times of an employee.

The Employee Time Calendar business object uses a Notify of Internal Acknowledgement from Employee Time Confirmation to Goods and Service Acknowledgement GSA outbound process agent to invoke either a Notify of Internal Acknowledgement operation or a Notify of Internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation . The Notify of Internal Acknowledgement operation notifies the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component of a service provided by an external employee. The notification can be sent when an active employee time with goods and service acknowledgement relevant information is created changed or cancelled. For example an employee time calendar can include the derived data from the employee time that is sent. The Notify of Internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation notifies the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component of the cancellation of an external provided service. The cancellation can be sent when an active employee time with goods and service acknowledgement relevant information is cancelled. For example an employee time calendar can include the derived data from the employee time that is sent. The operations and are included in an Internal Acknowledgement Out interface .

The Notify of Internal Acknowledgement operation generates a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Request message . The Notify of Internal Acknowledgement Cancellation operation generates a Goods and Service Acknowledgement Request Cancellation message .

The Goods and Service Acknowledgment Request message is received in a Create Goods and Service Acknowledgment operation . The Goods and Service Acknowledgment Cancellation Request message is received in a Cancel Goods and Service Acknowledgment operation . The Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation creates a goods and service acknowledgement based on time recording or express confirmation in internal request processing. The Cancel Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation cancels a goods and service acknowledgement based on a time recording cancellation. The operations and are included in an Internal Acknowledgement In interface .

The operations and use a Maintain Goods and Service Acknowledgement based on Internal Acknowledgment inbound process agent to update the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a document that reports the receipt of goods and services.

Interactions between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object . The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object represents a group of related issues arising during a supplier invoice verification process. In some implementations the issues causing an exception can be bundled according to certain business criteria. A complex follow up clarification process may be required to resolve the issues.

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object uses a Request Resolution from Supplier Verification Exception to Processor outbound process agent . The Request Resolution from Supplier Verification Exception to Processor outbound process agent invokes a Request Exception Resolution operation in an Exception Resolution Out interface . The operation can request the resolution of a verification exception from an external party. The operation generates an Interactive Form Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Request message that can be received by the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component .

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component sends an Interactive Form Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Confirmation message . The message uses a Mapping Entity to transform the interactive form based message type to a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Confirmation message that can be received by the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes an Exception Resolution In interface . The interface includes an Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception operation . The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Confirmation message is received by the Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception operation . The Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception operation can update the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object according to changes made by an external party using an Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception based on Resolution Confirmation inbound process agent . The Exception Resolution In interface receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

Interactions between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Purchasing Contract Processing 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier can issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The business object uses a Notify of Contract Release from Invoice to Purchasing Contract Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Contract Release operation when an invoice with reference to a purchasing contract and no reference to a purchase order has been posted The operation is included in a Contract Release Out interface . The Notify of Contract Release operation informs the contract about the posting of a contract related invoice. The Notify of Contract Release operation generates a Purchasing Contract Release Notification message to notify the Purchasing Contract Processing process component about a request or confirmation of a particular supplier invoice.

A Maintain Purchasing Contract Release operation receives the Purchasing Contract Release Notification message . The operation can create or update releases in the purchasing contract. The operation is included in a Contract Releasing In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Purchasing Contract Release inbound process agent to update the Purchasing Contract business object . The business object represents a legally binding purchase agreement that can include special conditions that are negotiated between a buyer and a seller covering goods to be supplied or services to be performed. The purchase agreement can be valid for a specific period during which goods and services are released against the contract.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to Time and Labor Management outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation when a purchase order has been created changed or cancelled. The operation is included in an Employee Time Confirmation View Of Service Transaction Document Management Out interface . The Notify of Purchase Order operation creates a notification about the created changed or cancelled purchase order. The operation generates a Employee Time Confirmation View Of Service Transaction Document Notification message that is received by the Time and Labor Management process component .

The Time and Labor Management process component includes an Employee Time Confirmation View Of Service Transaction Document Management In interface . The interface includes a Maintain operation that creates changes or deletes an employee time confirmation view of a service transaction document. The operation uses a Maintain Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document inbound process agent to update an Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document business object . The Employee Time Confirmation View of Service Transaction Document business object represents a view of a business transaction document specifying sold or purchase services that are relevant for employee time confirmation.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to Internal Request Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation when a purchase order has been ordered changed or cancelled and a purchase request was from internal request processing. The operation is included in an Ordering Notification Out interface . The Notify of Purchase Order operation is a notification about a created changed or cancelled purchase order. The operation generates a Purchase Order Notification message that is received by the Internal Request Processing process component .

The Internal Request Processing process component includes an Ordering Notification In interface . The interface includes a Change Internal Request based on Purchase Order operation . The operation changes an internal request based on the notification of the buyer that informs the requester about the progress of procurement and the meaning of changes to follow on documents. For example the creation of a goods and service acknowledgment can include the amount of received goods as well as the creation of supplier invoices.. The operation uses a Change Internal Request based on Purchase Order inbound process agent to update the Internal Request business object . The Internal Request business object represents a request from an employee of a company for the procurement of goods or services for their own or for company use.

Interactions between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bill Of Exchange Payable business object . The Bill Of Exchange Payable business object represents a bill of exchange for an outgoing payment. The business object uses an Issue Bill Of Exchange Payable to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke an Issue Bill Of Exchange operation . The Issue Bill Of Exchange operation is included in a Bill Of Exchange Payable Issuing Output Out interface . The Issue Bill Of Exchange operation can request the issuing of a bill of exchange. The Issue Bill Of Exchange operation generates a Form Bill Of Exchange Payable Issue Request message that is received by the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component .

Interactions between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Outgoing Check business object . The Outgoing Check business object represents a check issued by a company payable to a business partner to fulfill a payment order. The business object uses an Issue Check From Outgoing Check to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke an Issue Check operation when the status of an outgoing check changes to issued and internal printing of the check is requested. The Issue Check operation is included in a Check Issue Output Out interface . The Issue Check operation can request the issuing of a check. The Issue Check operation generates a Form Check Issue Request message that is received by the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component .

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

