---

title: Methods for managing remote devices over an instant messaging network and systems thereof
abstract: A method and system for managing one or more devices includes identifying at least one condition related to one of one or more devices to initiate an instant message communication between one of the one or more devices and one of one or more computing systems. An instant message service is invoked based on the identified condition and an instant message is generated based on the identified condition. The generated instant message is provided at the one of the computing systems in which the instant message communication has been initiated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07583189&OS=07583189&RS=07583189
owner: 
number: 07583189
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070320
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for managing devices and more particularly to systems for monitoring remote devices over an instant messaging network and methods thereof.

Connectivity to remote equipment in the field has become a common practice for many original equipment manufacturers OEMs . Frequently this equipment is distributed over a broad geographical region and often involves hundreds if not thousands or tens of thousands of individual devices.

Currently solutions to obtain this connectivity involve the use of a centralized server system between the OEMs and the remote equipment. These solutions require all remote devices to report monitoring and alarm data back to a centralized server system. The collected monitoring and alarm data is only made available to OEMs through monitoring applications running within the centralized server system. Quite often these connectivity and monitoring applications are customized for the particular centralized server system and OEM. As a result users must learn the particular intricacies of each of these connectivity and monitoring applications before they can become productive.

These solutions may also provide a data tunneling capability that allows for the use of existing OEM developed diagnostic applications over the Internet through client server connections such as telnet and HTTP. Once again with this data tunneling capability all communications are targeted to a central server system with a specialized switching server that establishes and maintains a connection between the OEM and centralized server system. Since these switching servers are a typical point of failure switching servers are often clustered to improve performance and availability.

Accordingly with these existing solutions an OEM can remotely monitor diagnose and repair problems with the equipment. As a result OEMs can be more proactive in preventing and addressing problems with remote equipment before they become serious. Additionally with these existing OEMs can identify and provide other value added services such as automatically identifying when remote equipment is or will be in need of replenishment of consumables which can be provided by the OEM.

Unfortunately these solutions which utilize a centralized server system have at least two significant drawbacks. First the need for all of the data to pass through a centralized server system can cause significant scalability problems. When tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of remote devices are being monitored the need for all of the data to pass through a centralized server system can negatively impact overall performance and user experience. Additionally with larger numbers of remote devices larger scales of data must pass through switching servers in the centralized server system and as mentioned earlier these switching servers are typical points of failure. Clustering of switching servers is often used to address this issue but at the expense of a much more complex and expensive centralized server system.

Second these solutions are often customized for each particular OEM forcing users to learn new and unfamiliar applications and user paradigms. This creates a significant learning curve and expense and can impede any productivity gains obtained by using these solutions. By way of example only to use one of these solutions to run an OEM developed diagnostic tool a user has to log in to the central server system find the remote device they wish to connect and then request the connection. Often this process has significant wait times during the login identification and connection process and requires significant training on the part of the user to execute.

A method for managing one or more devices in accordance with embodiments of the present invention includes identifying at least one condition related to one of one or more devices to initiate an instant message communication between one of the one or more devices and one of one or more computing systems. An instant message service is invoked based on the identified condition and an instant message is generated based on the identified condition. The generated instant message is provided at the one of the computing systems in which the instant message communication has been initiated.

A computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions for managing one or more devices in accordance with other embodiments of the present invention includes identifying at least one condition related to one of one or more devices to initiate an instant message communication between one of the one or more devices and one of one or more computing systems. An instant message service is invoked based on the identified condition and an instant message is generated based on the identified condition. The generated instant message is provided at the one of the computing systems in which the instant message communication has been initiated.

A system for managing one or more devices in accordance with other embodiments of the present invention includes an identification system an invocation system a messaging system and a display system. The identification system identifies at least one condition related to one of one or more devices to initiate an instant message communication between one of the one or more devices and one of one or more computing systems. The invocation system invokes an instant message service based on the identified condition and the messaging system generates an instant message based on the identified condition. The display system provides the generated instant message at the one of the computing systems in which the instant message communication has been initiated.

The present invention provides a number of advantages including providing an effective efficient and easy to use method and system to monitor manage and diagnose one or more devices which may be at a remote location using an instant messaging system. Unlike prior solutions the present invention eliminates the need complexity and expense of a centralized server system and customized applications. Instead with the present invention a user assigned appropriate privileges may directly contact a device and request current status operating conditions or invoke self diagnostic routines using an instant messaging system or establish direct peer to peer connections.

A system for managing devices in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is illustrated in . The system includes the devices a presence server an audit server user computing systems autonomous management server and a communications network although the system can include other types and numbers of components devices systems and or servers configured in other manners. The present invention provides a number of advantages including providing an effective efficient and easy to use method and system to monitor manage and diagnose one or more devices using an instant messaging system.

Referring more specifically to the devices are located remotely from the user computing systems although other types and numbers of components devices systems and or servers which are in other locations and proximities with could be used. By way of example only the devices may comprise machines production tools hospital equipment office equipment monitoring devices computer systems or vehicles. Each of the devices autonomously and regularly initiates a connection to announce its presence to the presence server although other manners for identifying the presence of one or more of the devices could be used.

Each of the devices may also monitor values of one or more parameters related to the devices such as parameters relating to the operation of each of the devices although other numbers of the devices could monitor values for any number and type of parameter or characteristic. By way of example only if the devices comprise office equipment the one or more parameters monitored for each of the devices could comprise monitoring a current level of consumables or an operating condition for the office equipment.

Further each of the devices monitors for one or more fault or abnormal conditions related to the devices although one or more of the devices could monitor for other numbers and types of conditions. Each of the devices stores a threshold value associated with each of the parameters although the threshold values could be stored at other locations or obtained in other manners such as by user input. When one or more of the threshold values in one of the devices is surpassed the one of the devices determines a fault or abnormal condition exists although other manners for identifying a fault or abnormal condition could be used. When a fault condition is identified in one of the devices the one of the devices autonomously initiates an instant message that is sent out to one or more of the user computing systems stored in a buddy list with the one of the devices although other manners for initiating the instant message and identifying the one or more recipients of the message could be used. The format of the instant message initiated by the one of the devices is an XML message with embedded SOAP encoding so that it invokes a instant messaging web service at the one or more user computing systems designated as a recipient although other types of messages and communication systems could be used.

Each of the devices includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory and an interface system which are coupled together by a bus or other link although other numbers and types of each of the components and other configurations and locations for the components can be used. The processor in each of the devices executes a program of stored instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein including for autonomously and regularly initiating a connection to announce the devices presence on the communication system monitoring values for one or more parameters related to the devices and monitoring for one or more fault or abnormal conditions related to the devices . The memory stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to the processor can be used for the memory. The interface system in each of the devices is used to operatively couple and communicate between the devices and the presence server the audit server the user computing systems and the autonomous management server although other numbers and types of connections to other devices systems and servers could be used.

The presence server is responsible for monitoring what devices and user computing systems are currently online offline and delivering an indication of such through an instant message style client running on one of the user computing systems although other manners for monitoring the status of the devices and user computing systems could be used. The presence server also creates and maintains connection and contact information to enable devices and user computing systems to communicate although this connection and contact information can be created and maintained in other manners. The presence server enables the establishment of direct connections between the devices and the user computing systems from behind typical intranet security measures including firewalls Internet proxies and NATs using well known techniques such as Simple Traversal of UDP User Datagram Protocol through NATs Network Address Translators STUN and Traversal Using Relay NAT TURN . These connections established by the presence server can be transient for example to deliver a short instant message style message or long term for example to allow for file sharing remote desktop sessions or tunneling remote diagnostics.

The presence server includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory and an interface system which are coupled together by a bus or other link although other numbers and types of each of the components and other configurations and locations for the components can be used. The processor in the presence server executes a program of stored instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein including monitoring what devices and user computing systems are currently online offline and delivering an indication of such and creating and maintaining connection and contact information to enable devices and user computing systems to communicate. The memory stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to the processor can be used. The interface system in the presence server is used to operatively couple and communicate between the presence server and the devices the audit server the user computing systems and the autonomous management server although other numbers and types of connections to other devices systems and servers could be used.

The audit server records a log of all activities that take place between one or more of the devices and one or more of the user computing systems although other types and amounts of information could be recorded by the audit server . By way of example only this information can comprise the specifics of the activity the initiator of the activity and a timestamp indicating when the activity took place.

The audit server includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory and an interface system which are coupled together by a bus or other link although other numbers and types of each of the components and other configurations and locations for the components can be used. The processor in the audit server executes a program of stored instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein including recording a log of all activities that take place between one or more of the devices and one or more of the user computing systems . The memory stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to the processor can be used for the memory. The interface system in the audit server is used to operatively couple and communicate between the audit server and the devices the presence server the user computing systems and the autonomous management server although other numbers and types of connections to other devices systems and servers could be used.

Each of the user computing systems enables a user or operator to establish a peer to peer communication with one or more of the devices to be notified of a fault or abnormal condition request and receive values for one or more parameters at one or more of the devices and run and obtain information from one or more diagnostics executed at one or more of the devices although the user computing systems could be used by an operator for other types and numbers of functions.

Each of the user computing systems includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory an interface system a user input system and a display system which are coupled together by a bus or other link although each of the user computing systems can comprise other numbers and types of components and systems in other configurations. The processor in each of the user computing systems executes a program of stored instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described and illustrated herein including receiving notification of a fault or abnormal condition requesting and receiving values for one or more parameters at one or more of the devices and running and obtaining information from one or more diagnostics executed at one or more of the devices although the processor could execute other types of programmed instructions. The memory in each of the user computing systems stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to one of the processor can be used for the memory. The interface system in each of the user computing systems is used to operatively couple and communicate between each of the user computing systems and the devices the presence server the audit server and the autonomous management server although other numbers and types of connections to other devices systems and servers could be used.

The user input device in each of the user computing systems is used to input selections such as which of the devices are being monitored managed or diagnosed which parameters to check and which diagnostics to run on which of the devices although other types of data could be input. The user input device comprises a computer keyboard and a computer mouse although other types and numbers of user input devices can be used. The display system in each of the user computing systems is used to show data and information to the user such as a detected fault or abnormal condition at one or more of the devices values for one or more selected parameters at one or more of the devices or data from diagnostics run at one or more of the devices although other types of data and information could be displayed and other manners of providing the information can be used. The display system comprises a computer display screen such as a CRT or LCD screen by way of example only although other types and numbers of displays could be used such as a printer.

The optional autonomous management server provides a twenty four hour and seven day a week monitoring service that automatically establish a peer to peer connection with one or more of the devices and request certain values for one or more parameters or run and obtain information from one or more diagnostics at one or more of the devices although the autonomous management server could perform other types and numbers of functions. Once the communication is completed the autonomous management server would close the peer to peer connection. Additionally the autonomous management server could perform a periodic analysis on the obtained information returned from the one of the devices and based on this historical information make predictions such as failure events or maintenance times.

The autonomous management server includes a central processing unit CPU or processor a memory and an interface system which are coupled together by a bus or other link although other numbers and types of each of the components and other configurations and locations for the components can be used. The processor in the autonomous management server executes a program of stored instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein including automatically establishing a peer to peer connection with one or more of the devices and requesting certain values for one or more parameters or running and obtaining information from one or more diagnostics at one or more of the devices . The memory stores these programmed instructions for one or more aspects of the present invention as described herein although some or all of the programmed instructions could be stored and or executed elsewhere. A variety of different types of memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM or a read only memory ROM in the system or a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or other computer readable medium which is read from and or written to by a magnetic optical or other reading and or writing system that is coupled to the processor can be used for the memory. The interface system in the autonomous management server is used to operatively couple and communicate between the autonomous management server and the devices the presence server the audit server and the user computing systems although other numbers and types of connections to other devices systems and servers could be used.

The communications network comprises the Internet although other types and numbers of communication systems such as a direct connection a local area network a wide area network modems and phone lines e mails and or wireless communication technology each having their own communications protocols in other configurations could be used. In this particular embodiment the communications network uses industry standard protocols including SOAP XML and HTTP although other types of communications protocols and techniques such as Representational State Transfer REST could be used.

Although an example of embodiments of the devices the presence server the audit server the user computing systems and the autonomous management server are described and illustrated herein each could be implemented on any suitable device system or server. It is to be understood that the devices systems and servers of the exemplary embodiments are for exemplary purposes as many variations of the specific hardware and software used to implement the exemplary embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s .

Furthermore each of the devices systems and servers of the present invention may be conveniently implemented using one or more general purpose computer systems microprocessors digital signal processors micro controllers and the like programmed according to the teachings of the present invention as described and illustrated herein as will be appreciated by those skilled in the computer and software arts.

In addition two or more computing devices systems or servers can be substituted for any one of the devices systems or servers in any embodiment of the present invention. Accordingly principles and advantages of distributed processing such as redundancy replication and the like also can be implemented as desired to increase the robustness and performance the devices and systems of the exemplary embodiments. The present invention may also be implemented on one or more of any devices systems or servers that extend across any network using any suitable interface mechanisms and communications technologies including for example telecommunications in any suitable form e.g. voice modem and the like wireless communications media wireless communications networks cellular communications networks G3 communications networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTNs Packet Data Networks PDNs the Internet intranets a combination thereof and the like.

The present invention may also be embodied as a computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon for predictive capacity planning as described herein which when executed by a processor cause the processor to carry out the steps necessary to implement the methods of the present invention as described and illustrated herein.

Referring to a method for detecting and providing an indication of a fault or abnormal condition at one or more devices using a peer to peer connection is illustrated. At step each of the devices monitors for one or more fault or abnormal conditions although other numbers and types of the devices systems components and servers could monitor for one or more conditions and other numbers and types of conditions which could be initiated in other manners could be used. By way of example only other conditions can include a need to transfer one or more files from one of the devices to one or more of the user computing systems a need to update a value of properties associated with one of the devices a need to transfer a history or event log for one of the devices . Additionally other conditions could comprise a receipt of a user input from a computer system such as one of the user computing systems the autonomous management server or one of the devices and to initiate an instant message targeted towards one or more devices or an autonomous request from a computer system such as one of the user computing systems the autonomous management server or one of the devices to initiate an instant message targeted towards one or more devices as explained in greater detail herein although again other types and numbers of conditions could trigger an instant messaging communication.

Each of the devices has stored a threshold value for each of parameter associated with the device although the threshold values could be stored and obtained in other manners. The devices monitor a current value for each parameter and when one of the devices detects that the current value has surpassed the threshold value a fault or abnormal condition is detected although other manners for identifying a fault or abnormal condition could be used.

At step when a fault or abnormal condition is detected the one of the devices that detected the condition retrieves a buddy list of one or more recipients at one or more of the user computing systems for receiving notification of the condition although other manners for determining intended recipients and other locations for storing the recipients could be used. Next the one of the devices that detected the condition queries the presence server for information on how to make a direct connection to one or more computing systems and or autonomous management server. The one of the devices creates a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP message which is sent in the form of an instant message protocol message to each identified recipient at one or more of the user computing systems retrieved from the buddy list although other manners for initiating a communication using other services could be used. In this embodiment the messaging web service follows the standards as defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF using the Extensible markup Language XML Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and Web Services Definition Language WDSL .

Additionally the one of the devices that detected the fault or abnormal condition generates an instant message with information about the fault or abnormal condition such as the value of one or more parameters and a timestamp on when the fault or abnormal condition occurred although other types and amounts of information could be provided. The one of the computing system that receives the message determines whether one or more characteristics of the instant message or buddy list display should be altered such as by coloring the text red and or making the font bold based on a comparison of information about the fault or condition against stored data although other manners for determining when and how to alter one or more of the characteristics of the instant message can be used. By way of example only if the fault or abnormal condition relates to a component which is designated as critical for the device or a current value is above or below a threshold value by a set amount or range then the text of that device in the buddy list may be colored red and the text put in bold.

Following step in step each of the user computing systems which has been identified as a recipient of the instant message about the fault or abnormal condition receives the instant message protocol message. Next at step the invocation of the web service by each of the identified user computing systems results in a pop up instant message which contains the generated message from the one of the devices that detected the fault or abnormal condition.

Additionally following step in step the one of the devices that detected the condition also creates a SOAP message to invoke the logging web service at the audit server and sends this instant message protocol message to the audit server although other manners for initiating storage of information regarding the communication can be used.

At step the audit server receives the logging service request and determines if a log for the one of the devices that detected the condition should be recorded. If the audit server determines a log should be recorded for the one of the devices that detected the condition then at step the audit server stores the audit information although the audit information could be received from other sources and stored in other locations. The audit information comprises information on the communications between the one of the devices that detected the fault or abnormal condition and each of the user computing systems identified as a recipient of the notification of the condition although other types of information could be stored. By way of example only this information may include the initiator of the request the type of request the result of the request and the timestamp for the communications.

Referring to a method for requesting and receiving one or more values for one or more parameters from one or more devices using a peer to peer connection is illustrated. Although the method described herein is in executed in response to user input one or more computer systems could autonomously carry out the method described herein. At step a user at one of the user computing systems retrieves a buddy list of one or more devices the user can interact with although other manners for identifying devices the user computing system can interact with and other locations for storing the list could be used. Next the user at one of the user computing systems selects one or more of the devices to establish an instant message communication although other manners for making the selection could be used such as having an automated selection of the devices parameters and actions by a computing system without user involvement.

At step the user at one of the user computing systems retrieves a list of parameters associated with each of the selected ones of devices and selects an action with respect to these parameters although other manners for obtaining and selecting the one or more parameters and other types of items could be used. By way of example only the user at one of the user computing systems might select a parameter for operating temperatures of critical components in one of the devices and may select the action Get Current Values although other numbers and types of parameters and actions could be selected. Next the one of the user computing systems that selected the devices generates an instant message with information about the selected parameter and action although the message could contain other types and amounts of information.

At step the user computing system that selected one or more of the devices creates a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP message which is sent in the form of an instant message protocol message to each of the selected ones of devices although other manners for initiating a communication using other services could be used.

At step each of the selected ones of devices which has been identified as a recipient of the instant message receives the instant message protocol message.

At step each of the selected ones of devices processes the received instant message to retrieve the one or more selected parameters and actions embedded in the message although other types of processing of the received message can be conducted. Next in response to the processed message each of the selected ones of devices retrieves the current value of the requested parameters although the selected ones of devices can be instructed to perform other types and numbers of functions.

At step each of the selected ones of devices uses the instant message protocol to invoke the web service to send an instant message with the retrieved current values back to the one of the user computing systems that initiated the communication although other manners for initiating a communication using other services and other types of messages could be used. The selected ones of devices generates an instant message with information about retrieved current values for the selected parameters although the message could contain other types and amounts of information could be provided.

At step the one of the user computing systems that initiated the communication receives the instant message protocol message. In response to this instant message protocol message the one of the user computing systems that initiated the communication invokes a messaging web service at presence server to transmit the generated instant message although other manners for initiating a communication using other services could be used. The invocation of the web service by the one of the user computing systems that initiated the communication results in an instant message which contains the current values of the selected parameters from the selected ones of devices although other types and amounts of information could be provided.

Additionally following step in step the selected ones of devices that obtained the current values for the selected parameters also creates a SOAP message to invoke the logging web service at the audit server and sends this instant message protocol message to the audit server although other manners for initiating storage of information regarding the communication can be used.

At step the audit server receives the logging service request and determines if a log for the selected ones of devices should be recorded. If the audit server determines a log should be recorded for the selected ones of devices then at step the audit server stores the audit information although the audit information could be received from other sources and stored in other locations. The audit information comprises information on the communications between the one of the user computing systems that initiated the communication and the selected ones of devices although other types of information could be stored.

Referring to a method for running and obtaining information from one or more diagnostics at one or more devices using a peer to peer connection is illustrated. At step a user at one of the user computing systems retrieves a buddy list of one or more devices although other manners for identifying devices the user computing system can interact with and other locations for storing the list could be used. Next the user at one of the user computing systems selects one or more of the devices to establish an instant message communication although other manners for making the selection could be used such as having an automated selection of the devices and diagnostics.

At the user at one of the user computing systems selects what action or connection the user is interested in although other manners for obtaining and selecting the parameters and other types of items could be used. By way of example only the available options might be Start Remote Desktop Connect to Web Based UI or Run System Diagnostic Application although other types and numbers of action could be selected. Next the one of the user computing systems that selected the devices generates an instant message with information about the selected action although the message could contain other types and amounts of information.

At step the user computing system that selected one or more of the devices uses the connection information obtained from the presence server and creates a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP message which is sent in the form of an instant message protocol message to each of the selected ones of the devices although other manners for initiating a communication using other services could be used.

At step each of the selected ones of devices which has been identified as a recipient of the instant message receives the instant message protocol message. Next at step each of the selected ones of devices verifies that the one of the user computing systems making the request has the appropriate permission to establish this type of direct connection. If in step each of the selected ones of devices determines that the one of the user computing systems making the request does not have permission then the No branch is taken to step where the attempted communication is logged as described in greater detail below. If in step each of the selected ones of devices determines that the one of the user computing systems making the request does have permission then the Yes branch is taken to step .

In step in response to this instant message protocol message each of the selected ones of the devices accepts the peer to peer connection request and establishes the connection. After establishing the connection the selected ones of the devices proceeds to step

At step the initiated computing system receive acknowledgement that the connection is established. Next at step the selected ones of the devices process the generated instant message to retrieve action or actions such as running a diagnostic application although other types of processing of the received message can be conducted. Next in response to the processed message each of the selected ones of devices executes the received action or actions such as allowing the user to remotely run a device specific diagnostic application and establish a direct chat session and or voice channel with the operator of the device using the instant messaging although the selected ones of devices can be instructed to perform other types and numbers of functions. By way of example only the action can include Query Device Direct Connect to Device Transfer Files Talk to Device Operator and Instant Message Chat with Operator although other types of actions and connections can be executed. In response to the selected actions each of the selected ones of devices uses the established peer to peer connection to communicate back with the one of the user computing systems that initiated the communication regarding the selected action or actions in the manner described earlier.

Additionally following step in step the selected ones of devices creates a SOAP message to invokes the logging web service at the audit server and sends this instant message protocol message to the audit server although other manners for initiating storage of information regarding the communication can be used.

At step the audit server receives the logging service request and determines if a log for the selected ones of devices that detected the condition should be recorded. If the audit server determines a log should be recorded for the one of the devices that detected the condition then at step the audit server stores the audit information although the audit information could be received from other sources and stored in other locations. The audit information comprises information on the communications between the selected ones of the devices and the user computing system that initiated the communication although other types of information could be stored.

Accordingly the present invention provides a mechanism for remote monitoring and diagnostics of field equipment via the invocation of web services using a peer to peer instant messaging protocol or system through a familiar instant message style user interface. The web services are invoked by establishing a transient direct peer to peer connection to one or more of the devices . In addition the system provides for a longer term direct peer to peer connection of field devices or equipment to allow for the remote use of related client server and peer to peer applications such as remote desktop sharing Voice over IP and device specific proprietary diagnostic applications by way of example only.

Having thus described the basic concept of the invention it will be rather apparent to those skilled in the art that the foregoing detailed disclosure is intended to be presented by way of example only and is not limiting. Various alterations improvements and modifications will occur and are intended to those skilled in the art though not expressly stated herein. These alterations improvements and modifications are intended to be suggested hereby and are within the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally the recited order of processing elements or sequences or the use of numbers letters or other designations therefore is not intended to limit the claimed processes to any order except as may be specified in the claims. Accordingly the invention is limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereto.

