---

title: Security synchronization services
abstract: As a result of the inability to assign security in multiple applications at one time, there is an opportunity to tie the disparate security systems together. Security synchronization services is a method and apparatus that uses roles to provide a common administration experience for all applications that use it and fits better for new applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032935&OS=08032935&RS=08032935
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08032935
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
This Background is intended to provide the basic context of this patent application and it is not intended to describe a specific problem to be solved.

Today users are faced with the task of setting up security in multiple applications most of which have a different security infrastructure and administration experience. This task can be daunting and frustrating. As more applications are integrated it will become increasingly important that users are provided a way to hook all the applications up so that the applications work as expected. It is unrealistic to expect administrators to manually set up modify or remove security in every application for every user. It also is unrealistic to expect all applications to snap to a common security infrastructure as most popular the applications that are integrated are already mature applications with an established security infrastructure

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As a result of the inability to assign security in multiple applications at one time there is an opportunity to tie the disparate security systems together. The disclosed method and apparatus provides a common administration experience for all applications that use it and fits better for new applications by using roles to assign security. The utility will provide the following capabilities 

The disclosed method and apparatus provides the ability to synchronize in any direction by specifying a source and destination along with some rules about what should happen along the way. The actual work of adding removing users from roles is the responsibility of the providers that are plugged in to the method providing extensibility for any application or security infrastructure that can be programmatically accessed via some application programming interface.

Although the following text sets forth a detailed description of numerous different embodiments it should be understood that the legal scope of the description is defined by the words of the claims set forth at the end of this disclosure. The detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment since describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. Numerous alternative embodiments could be implemented using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this patent which would still fall within the scope of the claims.

It should also be understood that unless a term is expressly defined in this patent using the sentence As used herein the term is hereby defined to mean . . . or a similar sentence there is no intent to limit the meaning of that term either expressly or by implication beyond its plain or ordinary meaning and such term should not be interpreted to be limited in scope based on any statement made in any section of this patent other than the language of the claims . To the extent that any term recited in the claims at the end of this patent is referred to in this patent in a manner consistent with a single meaning that is done for sake of clarity only so as to not confuse the reader and it is not intended that such claim term by limited by implication or otherwise to that single meaning. Finally unless a claim element is defined by reciting the word means and a function without the recital of any structure it is not intended that the scope of any claim element be interpreted based on the application of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph.

Much of the inventive functionality and many of the inventive principles are best implemented with or in software programs or instructions and integrated circuits ICs such as application specific ICs. It is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and ICs with minimal experimentation. Therefore in the interest of brevity and minimization of any risk of obscuring the principles and concepts in accordance to the present invention further discussion of such software and ICs if any will be limited to the essentials with respect to the principles and concepts of the preferred embodiments.

The processing unit may be any processing unit capable of executing computer code. When in a portable device it may also be useful if the processor is efficient in using power to increase the life of the power source. The processing unit may also be used to execute code to support a user interface and external communications.

The display may be a color LCD screen or any other appropriate display . User input s may include a keyboard manual buttons soft buttons or a combination of both. In addition the user input may be gesture driven which may use no buttons or may be voice activated. Soft buttons may be used when the display includes a touch screen capability. Manual buttons may include re definable keys with programmable legends. In operation a user may use the user interface to select an application.

The media may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with external entities such as network endpoints or a computer used for synchronization. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media

The power source may be a battery that may be rechargeable. The power source may also be a standard battery or an input from a power converter or any other source of power.

At a high level the described method may be exposed via console such as a Microsoft Management Console which communicates with a synchronization web service use a web services protocol. The console may provide the ability to synchronize in any direction by specifying a source and destination along with some rules about what should happen along the way. The actual work of adding removing users from roles would be the responsibility of the providers that are plugged in providing extensibility for any application or security infrastructure that can be programmatically accessed via some application programming interface.

At block authority may be obtained to modify one or more roles for a user in one or more applications. In most networks an administrator has the needed authority. A security role can be thought of as a privilege granted to users or groups based on specific conditions. In addition in some cases the roles in the applications may have to be further defined. For example role specific permissions may have to be set for roles in each application.

At block roles in each of the applications may be collected. The roles may be collected by calling an API or other function designed for this purpose. Some applications may be prepared to respond and some may not. If an application does not have roles or does not have the necessary knowledge to respond that application will be unable to be synchronized without additional effort on the part of the administrator.

At block a directory may be queried for all users and the user may be selected from the found users. In some cases the user in question may already be known and may be directly entered. The scope of the inquiry may be limited to a specific group in question or may be network wide.

At block an application may be selected from the plurality of applications. In some embodiments the application may known and entered immediately. The applications may be obtained through a survey or through a directory.

At block a role from the collected roles for the user may be selected in the selected application. The adjustment may be one of grant change or remove. On one embodiment the role for multiple users may be adjusted at the same time. In another embodiment the user may be added to the roles of another user. For example if Employee A is an accounts payable clerk and Employee B is a new accounts payable clerk the roles and related security settings may be copied from Employee A to Employee B.

In some applications roles are further broken down into scopes. Accordingly the method may obtain a scope of the roles from the application. If the application supports scope specific roles the scope specific roles may be adjusted for the user.

At block if a synchronization rule is related to the adjusted role the synchronization rule or rules may be executed. A synchronization rule adjusts a role for the user in one or more additional applications. More specifically a rule may be created that if the user is assigned a role in a first application a known role may be assigned in a second application.

A list of applications also may be displayed . An application selection interface may be displayed such as a drop down box where an application may be selected from the displayed list of applications.

A list of roles in the application may be displayed. A role selection interface may be displayed where a role is selected from the displayed list of roles for the selected user . The interface may be a simple drop down box or may be an entirely new display. By selecting a role the selected role for the user in the selected application may be adjusted. The adjustments may be to add a role remove a role up grade a role down grade a role or simple change of a role. An option may be displayed to add the selected user to the roles of another user.

If the application supports scope specific roles a scope of the roles from the selected application may be displayed. A scope of roles selection interface may be displayed where a scope selected from the displayed scopes may adjust the scope specific roles for the selected user . The interface may be a simple drop down box or may be an entirely new display.

The interface may display synchronization rules that may be related to the role selected. A rule synchronization interface may be displayed where the synchronization rule is selected to be executed. The interface may be a simple drop down box or may be an entirely new display. There also may be an option to create a new rule .

To make the method and apparatus work in one embodiment framework such as .NET from Microsoft and an application that defines the concept of application providers. A main class may be used that defines the interface between the generic subsystem and the specific application role providers. The application role providers may have to implement the main class for the application to be able to be part of a security synchronization method. The class may have properties such as id name and unsupported entities. The class may have methods such as GetRoles GetScopes DeleteRoleAssignment CreateRoleAssignment GetSupportedOptions RemoveApplicationROleAssignment and GetAuditingInformation. Registering with the method may involve deriving an abstract framework class that requires an application provider to implement the methods. These methods may allow the method to retrieve role information from an application persist role information to an application and provide a host of additional functionality across the applications without knowing any specific implementation details about the application s authorization framework.

If an application supports roles the application manufacture may plug in their security infrastructure by adding an entry that points to their provider assembly to support the described methods. The security synchronization method may then register the provider to be called when the application is launched the next time. By adding a configuration entry to the application s configuration file an application manufacturer may plug in to the method. The following is sample code that might be in the configuration file 

Each provider is unique and may or may not support all of the same types of functionality of other providers. The following class defines the supported options of a provider and is part of the ApplicationRoleProvider interface. This information allows the user experience to be customized based upon the providers in use and also provides the ability to perform unique validation for each provider.

Providers may be managed by a ApplicationRoleProviderManager class. This class instantiates the registered providers and may perform all of the actual synchronization services between the various application role providers. The ApplicationRoleProviderManager is the primary interface to the user experience portion of the application. It bootstraps the system and acts as a ApplicationRoleProvider factory. It also performs functions that cross multiple application role providers.

In some embodiments the web services protocol is used to interface with the various applications such that the security synchronization method may be available from any machine on a network.

Applications may have a variety of roles and the roles may not match up exactly. Accordingly rules may be created where if an employee is granted role A in application A then the employee would be granted role B in application B. These rules may be stored individually or together. The rule files may be stored in any format such as XML.

The following schema outlines a definition of a synchronization rule. These rules may be serialized into something known as rule sets which may be a collection of synchronization rules. These rule sets may be stored in an XML file that can be consumed by the service.

Error checking classes also may be part of the synchronization process. This provides the ability to validate entire objects without returning only the first error found.

As a result of the method and apparatus the burden on administrators is reduced. All rights are centralized which makes reporting and seeing rights easier. New users may be added and leaving users may be removed in a manner that only requires opening a single application. Similarly users that have increases or decreases in rights may have the rights modified from a single application.

Let s assume Chris the IT Administrator assigned all Accounting Managers rights to the Account Manager role in the Business Portal Administration Console by using the Mass Import of Users functionality. Now let s assume Chris would like to grant all users he imported in the Account Manager role rights to the necessary roles in Share Point so that they can use Business Portal.

Chris opens the Dynamics Synchronization Service Console and selects the Synchronize Roles action. Chris is presented with an option to select a source application and chooses BPSDK . Now a list of roles appears that are present within the BPSDK application. He selects the Account Manager role and states which company to utilize. He then selects a destination application of Share Point and is presented with a list of roles in that application. He selects the Accounting Manager role and selects the synchronize button. All users present in the source application role are synchronized to the destination role. Also options are available to delete users if not present in the source application create new roles in the destination application etc.

Although the forgoing text sets forth a detailed description of numerous different embodiments of the invention it should be understood that the scope of the invention is defined by the words of the claims set forth at the end of this patent. The detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possibly embodiment of the invention because describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. Numerous alternative embodiments could be implemented using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this patent which would still fall within the scope of the claims defining the invention.

