---

title: Automatically reconfigurable multimedia system with interchangeable personality adapters
abstract: A TV-set is equipped with HDMI and USB connections that allow it to display and run audio-video content from a variety of conventional consumer devices. The TV-set is further equipped to provide a secure HDMI-USB interface that will allow the transfer of licensed high definition content and Internet subscriber services. Such secure HDMI-USB interface also enables a selection of proprietary application modules to be attached. Downloadable user interface templates, much like XML style sheets, are rendered to a user interface displayed on the screen. These are associated with corresponding thumbnails and URI's that allow a user to surf through lists and catalogs of materials, and then to play them in the appropriate formats and provide the machine with a customized controller. A remote commander is simplified, yet expanded to control all the attached devices through interactions with the user interface. The functions of the remote commander's keys change depending on where the user is navigating and what device is being controlled, similar to so-called soft-keys.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07996869&OS=07996869&RS=07996869
owner: Sony Electronics, Inc.
number: 07996869
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070816
---
This application claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 838 942 filed on Aug. 18 2006 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 726 558 filed on Mar. 22 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 580 781 filed on Oct. 13 2006 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 601 973 filed on Nov. 20 2006 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 803 989 filed in May 16 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 838 940 filed on Aug. 18 2006 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 711 299 filed on Feb. 27 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 673 522 filed on Feb. 9 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 724 631 filed on Mar. 15 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 702 280 filed on Feb. 5 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Priority is claimed to each of the foregoing applications.

A portion of the material in this patent document is subject to copyright protection under the copyright laws of the United States and of other countries. The owner of the copyright rights has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the United States Patent and Trademark Office publicly available file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The copyright owner does not hereby waive any of its rights to have this patent document maintained in secrecy including without limitation its rights pursuant to 37 C.F.R. 1.14.

The present invention relates generally to television receivers and more particularly to audio video appliances able to automatically configure themselves and adapt to a variety of specialized personality cards for downloadable and attachable audio video content.

Audio video content is available in a very wide range of subjects formats and sources. The home television receiver is a natural way for consumers to access and view the Internet TV programs off the air and on cable home video personal photographs web pages movie and other program downloads games etc. Many TV receivers have a channel tuner built in and also have a number of auxiliary video and audio inputs available for games cable tuners DVD players etc. Connector standards include AVI HDMI VGA USB FIREWIRE and many others.

Navigating through all these audio video sources is one problem and actually playing them is another. To further complicate the situation for the consumer each device usually has a specialized and incompatible remote commander. Even universal remotes don t incorporate the entire user interface that may be distinguishing one brand over another. There are so many incompatible audio and video formats and communications protocols with specialized equipment and adapters needed for each that a tangle of wires and confusion result on how to select and operate it all.

High definition HD video format source content is now becoming widely available on cable TV satellite TV on air broadcasts DVD disc etc. Much of this HD content is copyrighted and a great deal of technical and legal effort goes into protecting the intellectual property. HD copyrighted content is especially sensitive because high quality copies can be readily made from HD in the clear and such home made copies will present as well as licensed manufactured copies.

Composite video component video DVI and now HDMI interfaces are common ways that TV monitors are used in homes to receive their video input signals to display. These interfaces are traditionally in the clear and easy places to intercept copyrighted content and then use it to generate un licensed copies. DVD manufacturers and cable operators for example have gone to extraordinary lengths to encrypt and scramble their content so unlicensed copies could not be made. But once the licensed content has been decoded and translated it makes no sense to allow it to come out in the clear for a home TV monitor to display.

CableLabs is a consortium of North American cable operators that manages the CableCARD Host Interface License Agreement CHILA specifications and associated intellectual property. The CableCARD Host Interface specification defines the interface between a digital cable receiver or set top box and a CableCARD module distributed by a cable operator. Such provides a standard platform for two way interactive devices. By signing an agreement companies are able to build set top boxes customer premises equipment and other products with a CableCARD removable security interface. The products can receive and display advanced cable services e.g. program guides and video on demand VOD . CHILA is a key component of the effort initiated by North American cable operators to deploy more innovative cable devices in their market. Additional interactive services include for example VOD and electronic program guide EPG .

The high definition multimedia interface HDMI was developed for high resolution digital TV s. HDMI provides HD video and advanced audio interfaces in one simplified connector unlike the earlier digital visual interface DVI that was developed primarily for computers and did not envision needing to process audio data. Early TV s and especially those with DVI connectors required the audio to be cabled with standard left and right analog channels using RCA style audio jacks. HDMI and DVI are compatible with high bandwidth digital content protection HDCP for digital multimedia. HDMI supports advanced multi channel digital audio transfers like 5.1 Dolby.

HDMI further supports consumer electronics control CEC so a single remote control can be used to control both the TV and the source device. CEC is an optional protocol used in HDMI systems that allows HDMI devices to pass control functions along to all the devices within the system. For example allowing one remote commander to be used for all devices. But CEC was designed to operate at low speeds with minimal processing and memory overhead. More ambitious control schemes get starved for bandwidth with CEC. Supplementing the HDMI connection with a universal serial bus USB for example can improve high bandwidth back channel communication as well as speed the transmission of certain control commands. A secure connection is needed when proprietary devices are being interconnected and licensed content is being transferred over the interfaces. The second path USB could allow a PC to spoof the TV and thus obtain sensitive information on the details of the data exchange between a set top box or other content source and a TV.

What is needed is multimedia appliance that can self adapt and configure itself to the kinds of formats a consumer would want to access while maintaining substantial protections for the licensed material that consumer would be viewing.

By way of example and not of limitation the present invention pertains generally to a system that includes a multimedia appliance such as a television TV and one or more personality adapters that enhance the functionality of the TV. The personality adapters are interchangeable and physically connect to the TV through a slot docking port or the like. The system also includes a secure communications interface between the TV and the personality adapters.

A selection of personality adapters provide for specialized interfaces and access to features which include but are not limited to Internet services mass memory storage cable TV off the air broadcasts wireless networking and personal computing. In one embodiment the TV automatically reconfigures itself when a personality adapter is connected and provides the user with menus and remote control functionality that corresponds to the features provided by the personality adapter. An example would be providing user interface renderings suitable to the kind and format of audio video source materials being accessed. In one embodiment both the TV and personality adapters cooperate in authorizing multimedia content transfers across the secure communications interface and thus will prevent unlicensed materials from being output by the personality adapter and or being accepted by the TV.

Accordingly an aspect of the invention is an automatically reconfigurable multimedia system. In one embodiment the system includes i a first device having an interface configured for receiving audio video content from a second device for receiving a configuration template from the second device and for communicating with the second device and having a video display and an audio output ii a second device having an interface configured for providing audio video content to the first device for providing the configuration template to the first device and for communicating with the first device iii where the first device further includes a configuration rendering engine for generating a user interface on the video display based on information contained in the configuration template.

Another aspect of the invention is an automatically reconfigurable television apparatus. In one embodiment the apparatus includes i a first interface over which audio video content can be received from an external device ii a second interface paired with the first interface which enables communication with the external device for controlling operation of the external device through the television apparatus iii a dynamic menu that automatically reconfigures in response to connection of the external device to the television apparatus and through which operation of the external device is controlled and audio video content from the external device is accessed and iv a configuration rendering engine that receives a configuration template from the external device and controls reconfiguration of the dynamic menu.

Another aspect of the invention is a personality adapter device for use with a television apparatus. In one embodiment the device includes i a first interface over which audio video content can be transferred to the television apparatus ii a second interface paired with the first interface which enables communication with the television apparatus for controlling operation of the device through the television apparatus iii a configuration template stored in memory in the device iv wherein the configuration template can be transferred to the television apparatus over at least one of the interfaces for automatic reconfiguration of a menu in the television apparatus in response to connection of the device to the television apparatus v and wherein operation of the device can be controlled and audio video content from the device can be accessed through said menu.

Another aspect of the invention is an audio video system. In one embodiment the system includes i a television set with a video display screen audio circuits a main menu and a remote commander ii a high definition multimedia interface HDMI interface for the television set through which video content can be accepted for said video display screen iii a TV set adapter for connection to the HDMI interface and for providing said video content according to user selections with the remote commander and for making automatic adjustments to said main menu and iv a user interface for rendering on the video display screen and providing for a look and feel described in a user interface template forwarded by the TV set adapter that was associated with a particular video content.

Another aspect of the invention is an Internet services network that provides access for the TV and Internet personality adapter to on line resources. Such Internet services network registers and supervises its users catalogs and stores all the audio video content provides lists and thumbnails to surfers shoppers and sources the user interface templates appropriate for each audio video content that will enable the rendering of a suitable user interface at the TV.

Another aspect of the invention is a TV equipped with HDMI and USB connections that allow it to display and run multimedia content from a variety of conventional consumer devices. In one embodiment the TV is further equipped to provide a secure HDMI USB interface that will allow the transfer of licensed high definition content and Internet subscriber services. Such secure HDMI USB interface also enables a selection of proprietary application adapters to be attached. In one embodiment downloadable user interface templates much like XML style sheets are rendered to a user interface displayed on the screen. These are associated with corresponding thumbnails and uniform resource indicators URI s that allow a user to surf through lists and catalogs of materials and then to play them in the appropriate formats and provide the machine with a customized controller. A remote commander is simplified yet expanded to control all the attached devices through interactions with the user interface. The functions of the remote commander s keys change depending on where the user is navigating and what device is being controlled similar to so called soft keys.

Further aspects of the invention will be brought out in the following portions of the specification wherein the detailed description is for the purpose of fully disclosing preferred embodiments of the invention without placing limitations thereon.

Referring first to through a generalized embodiment of an automatically reconfigurable multimedia system with interchangeable personality adapters according to the present invention is shown and is referred to herein by the general reference number .

System comprises a multimedia appliance such as a television TV having a conventional set of inputs and operational features and one or more personality adapters that enhance the functionality of the TV . The personality adapters are removable and interchangeable and physically and electrically connect to the TV.

As illustrated in and one method of physically connecting the devices is for the TV to include a docking port in the form of a slot or receptacle into which the personality adapter can be inserted and subsequently removed. As illustrated in another approach would be to connect the personality adapter to the back of the TV in a set back mounting configuration using screw type VESA mounts or the like. Essentially any captive connector with a release mechanism or any other physical connector mechanism that securely attaches the personality adapter to the TV could be used.

In one embodiment multiple docking ports are provided so that more than one personality adapter can be connected to the TV at the same time however only one such docking port would be needed in an embodiment where the personality adapters are interchangeable.

The system also includes an interface between the TV and each personality adapter . In the card type embodiment illustrated in and the interface preferably includes mating connectors for providing HDMI and USB communications between the personality adapter and TV as well as for providing power to the personality adapter. In one embodiment power HDMI and USB are provided over one or more proprietary custom connectors. Use of proprietary connectors also provides a degree of security so that only authorized personality adapters can function with the TV . In the set back type embodiment illustrated in standard HDMI and USB connectors and cables could be used. In either configuration it will be appreciated that power for the personality adapter could be provided over the USB interface but that a separate power connection may alternatively be provided for loads that exceed the capability of the USB connection. Furthermore in some embodiments additional security can be provided through for example application programming interfaces API . Additional security methods are described in more detail below.

Referring also to through a variety of personality adapters can be used in the system of the present invention.

For example illustrates a network adapter for providing communications capability between TV and a wired or wireless network including access to the Internet. In one embodiment the network adapter is a wired network adapter such as an Ethernet or USB adapter having a standard connection port for providing access to a wired network . In another embodiment the network adapter is a standard 802.11a b g n wireless local area network WLAN adapter WiFi adapter or other wireless communications adapter having an antenna for providing access to a wireless network . Conventional wired or wireless communications circuitry protocols and functionality would be provided for network interconnection.

The foregoing are merely examples of personality adapters and features that can be provided by personality adapters according to the present invention. Additional types of personality adapters and features include but are not limited to essentially any audio video device such as Blu ray Disc devices DVD devices PVR devices DVR devices VHS devices IP TV devices video game devices set top box devices e.g. satellite cable and digital or analog music devices and so forth. It will be appreciated that the range of features which can be provided by personality adapters are unlimited and that the interchangeability of personality adapters provides for a high degree of functional flexibility.

As previously described personality adapters are slidably engageable with corresponding receptacles in TV or they are dockable to TV or they are otherwise connectable to TV . One of the personality adapters previously described was a storage adapter having an internal hard disk drive flash memory and a port for receiving a Memory Stick or other form of removable memory. When the storage adapter is inserted into the TV the TV displays a menu or list of stored content that is available to the user.

In various other embodiments of the storage adapter there need not be any internal mass storage device. Instead storage adapter can simply include one or more ports for connection to external storage devices. Such ports could include but are not limited to one or more computer network connection ports such as universal serial bus USB ports and or Ethernet ports as well as solid state memory element interfaces such as slots for receiving solid state memory cards. The particular mix and configuration of the ports slots of a storage adapter would be determined in the discretion of the manufacturer of the personality adapter or the manufacturer of the TV or both.

In one embodiment the storage adapter functions as an interface between external storage devices and the TV . In this embodiment the storage adapter is configured with one or more conventional receptacles that can in turn removably receive e.g. by sliding a respective storage device. In another embodiment the storage adapter functions as an interface between the TV and external storage devices that have non standard connectors. In a non limiting example the physical part of the interface can include a non standard connector in the storage adapter and a complementarily configured connector on the storage device. By non standard it is meant that the connectors are proprietary to the manufacturer of the TV in that standard connectors that can be used with devices of other manufacturers cannot be used as the connectors. In the foregoing non limiting embodiment each connector may include a top row of connector elements such as pads or pins or sockets with the first three elements in the row being smaller than the last element in the row. A similar bottom row of connector elements can be provided and can be separated from the top row by a spacer section.

In one embodiment the storage adapter may also include a microprocessor and function as a primary storage adapter. In the foregoing non limiting embodiment the primary storage adapter can be configured to receive a secondary personality adapter such as a secondary storage adapter having an internal hard drive or other mass storage. The interface between the primary storage adapter and secondary storage adapter can then also include an application programming interface API executable by the processor of the primary storage adapter.

In one embodiment the interface between the primary and secondary storage adapters could be a secondary interface that is different than and in some embodiments more relaxed than interface so that the TV can display a list of content on the secondary storage adapter without requiring the menu to be further populated or without requiring individual graphical user interfaces GUI .

In some embodiments the storage adapter includes a microprocessor and an application programming interface API executable by the microprocessor. The API allows an Ethernet connection to the storage adapter to be viewed on the TV only as a digital living network association DLNA connection such that only DLNA volumes and content associated with the storage adapter can be displayed on the TV . Also in one embodiment a USB device connected to the TV by means of a USB plug on the storage adapter would be viewable by the system only as a storage medium. Thus a computer connected to the USB plug of the storage adapter would be restricted by the API to functioning only as a storage medium and cannot function for other computing purposes.

It will be appreciated that personality adapters according to the present invention could replace the normal functionality found in a TV so that TV would either not function or have very limited functionality without a personality adapter docked in TV . However in the preferred embodiment of the invention TV is a fully functional TV by itself and does not require a personality adapter to function.

As can be seen therefore the normal functionality of TV is expanded by the personality adapters. Furthermore the personality adapters do not operate as standalone devices but essentially integrate into TV to transform TV into a different device. For example in one embodiment the TV automatically reconfigures itself when a personality adapter is connected and provides the user with menus and remote control functionality that corresponds to the features provided by the personality adapter.

Referring to modern televisions include graphical user interfaces GUI to facilitate user operation and electronic program guides EPG are a common form of GUI that provides for program and or device selection through the use of a menu system . In one embodiment of the present invention the personality adapters store configuration user interface templates containing information concerning the functionality of the personality adapter which are downloaded to the TV when docked. A configuration rendering engine in TV processes the templates and the menu system in TV is then populated with the information from the personality adapter and automatically reconfigures itself. This reconfiguration can include but is not limited to adding icons text or other information associated with the personality adapter to the existing menu information that is presented on the TV display . In addition in one embodiment the remote control functionality of TV is also expanded so that the same remote commander used with TV can be used to access the functionality of the personality adapter through the TV .

As described above with reference to personality adapters can be variously configured to provide new or expanded functionality to the TV . Also as described above with reference to at least one embodiment of a personality adapter includes a configuration template that is stored in memory in the personality adapter and which is used to automatically reconfigure the menu in TV for the convenience of the user. In at least one embodiment the configuration template is processed by a configuration rendering engine in the TV . The configuration template can be pushed to the TV by the personality adapter over the USB channel or alternatively the configuration template can be pulled by TV . In at least one embodiment the configuration template is automatically transferred to the TV when the personality adapter is initially connected and the menu is automatically reconfigured to provide access to functionality extended by the personality adapter. In other words the menu in TV is dynamically updated when a peripheral personality adapter is connected so that the TV menu displays menu items associated with the personality adapter.

In one embodiment the TV can query the personality adapter for configuration information using e.g. a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP get request. It is to be understood that alternatively the personality adapter can automatically push configuration information to the TV without being requested to do so by the TV .

In one embodiment the personality adapter sends the requested configuration information to the TV in e.g. XML format which is parsed by the TV to extract the configuration information. In some implementations the configuration information may include an application label an application identification an application icon location to be used in placing the icon on the TV menu and an application order for ordering the applications on the TV menu. The term application is used generally herein and is meant to include the personality adapter itself or functions or features provided by the personality adapter. As set forth further below the application label can have the name of the application in different languages so that the TV can display the application name in the user s choice language.

Using the parsed information the TV reconstructs the TV menu by e.g. updating an internal category table that is used as the menu representation. The TV can retrieve alternatively can be automatically provided translation files from the personality adapter so that the application label may be presented on the TV in the language chosen by the viewer.

Files representing the icon s of the application s to be added to the menu may be retrieved alternatively can be automatically provided from the personality adapter in embodiments wherein the menu presents not just an application label in alpha numeric format but an icon as well for each application. The icon data is retrieved from the location that is specified in the application information since the TV does not know the context of the newly added application. With the application information now fully in hand the TV displays the newly added application labels and icons on the menu along with the previous icons and labels.

It will be appreciated that the linkage between a TV menu item and an added application is the application identification with all the menu items being described by the above mentioned application information. When the user selects an icon on the menu the TV sends the application ID to the application host e.g. the personality adapter . The application ID is unique so that the correct application that the user selected can be invoked.

It will further be appreciated that the application information on the TV menu can be updated dynamically so that when the application items that are available change the application information is simply sent to the TV which reconstructs the menu on the fly. Furthermore because the application information can be in XML format the application information can be used not only to update the TV menu but also to update any other devices such as game consoles that can use the application information.

The actual behavior of each menu item can be implemented either in the configuration template or in the TV . If desired applications can be periodically polled by the TV to ensure they are still available and if an application does not respond its icon and label can be removed from the TV menu.

Referring again to the implementation shown in that figure is colloquially referred to as a cross media bar or XMB . As shown plural icons are presented in an ordered list which can include associated alpha numeric application labels presented next to above or below at least some of the icons. The icons may be category icons indicating e.g. video music computer Internet LocationFree etc. and sub icons representing applications within a category can be displayed as well. Other icon arrangements and layouts can be used.

Referring to and together it will be appreciated that menu system provides a GUI that allows the user to access content or functionality that is built into TV that is provided by a personality adapter and or that is provided by an external device connected to TV . Input Input through input Input N in and represent various sources of such content and functionality. In one embodiment of the invention menu system provides content based input switching. More particularly when the user selects particular content or functionality through the menu system the TV automatically accesses the particular input where such content or functionality is provided. This is facilitated for example by TV being able to know the type of device or input source is connected to a particular input. For example HDMI allows for device information to be communicated to TV for content based input switching. Where such information is not communicated over the HDMI channel the menu system would be programmed to associate a particular source device with a particular input.

Referring to in one embodiment the system also includes software firmware or other means for ensuring that the HDMI and USB connections are on the same TV. The personality adapter reads a unique TV identification number over the HDMI channel and sends the identification number back to the TV over the USB channel for authentication . At if the authentication fails then the TV refuses to allow the personality adapter to operate with the TV otherwise operation of the personality adapter is permitted. In addition in one embodiment this allows for identification of which HDMI port on the TV is being used with a particular type of personality adapter to facilitate the content based input switching described above.

In addition referring to in one embodiment the system provides for security between the personality adapters and the TV over interface . In one embodiment each personality adapter includes one or more copyrighted security files that are transferred to the TV over interface when the personality adapter is docked. At the TV reads the security file and verifies the presence of the file and authenticity of the file or an attribute e.g. copyrighted data watermark etc associated therewith at . At in absence of the proper data being transferred from the personality adapter or the data being recognized by the TV as being authentic the TV refuses to allow the personality adapter to operate with the TV otherwise operation is permitted. Accordingly counterfeit personality adapters are not allowed to be used with the TV .

An audio video system embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in and also provides additional details of personality adapters . System comprises a TV with at least one personality adapter docked to the TV and which can access audio video content such as webpages video streams music digital photographs video games etc. A digital interface which includes a high definition multimedia interface HDMI and a serial bus interface such as a universal serial bus USB are included to support a secure transfer of audio video content data and control. A power connection is also provided for powering the personality adapter .

A secure pair device will verify to the personality adapter that its HDMI and USB connections are indeed connected to a single device in this case television set . It can do this by sending an encrypted challenge out on the HDMI having the TV compute its encrypted answer and then placing that answer on USB to be verified. USB further provides a form of high bandwidth back channel communication that can talk while the HDMI is carrying the audio video content. Such serial interface is capable of much higher communication rates than are ordinarily possible in the HDMI s reverse channel.

The video display is driven by a video processor that has been supplied with the audio video content . A soft menu system and a touch screen are each connected to a user interface UI and the menu and touch screen may overlap to provide soft keys. The touch screen is not strictly necessary but is an alternative to function access solely through remote commander or other means.

Configuration UI templates associated with particular audio video content and or functionality of personality adapter are received from the personality adapter and rendered to populate menu and to configure how touch screen or the wireless remote commander interpret user inputs. Such UI templates can also produce a trade dress kind of look and feel on video display that can reassure the user that they have accessed a familiar provider or found the right service or product.

UI templates and other configuration data are preferably stored in the personality adapter and are automatically transferred to TV when docked for automatic reconfiguration of TV . User settings and other configuration preference data in particular are preferably stored in flash memory and uploaded to personality adapter when it is docked so that the user does not have to repeat their preferences every time a new personality adapter is introduced or selected. The personality adapters automatically download the necessary UI templates unique to their use to UI . Any required modifications to the main menu will also get updated automatically to suit the application function supported by each active personality adapter .

An Internet media guide like a TV electronic programming guide EPG can be implemented with a UI template and these are filled with navigation image thumbnails arranged in a mosaic. The Sony PSP handheld game system is an example of one device that has an easy to use menu that provides access to a large number of choices. The Microsoft Vista Media Center is another example of a modern user interface with thumbnails that be leveraged here. Corresponding audio video content will be launched when the user selects any one thumbnail. A matrix portion of the video display can be vertically scrolled to present an unlimited number of pages.

The wireless remote commander sends user commands for processing to a remote controller manager over an infrared beam or the like. Such commands are interpreted by which soft keys and buttons the user may have navigated to on the video display or by electronic program guides EPG and soft keys provided by near field communication NFC to be displayed on a display on the remote commander itself. Other keys provided on the wireless remote commander may be hardwired and function independent of the action on the video display . The wireless remote commander and touch screen are two basic ways a user can navigation through all the possibilities to be browsed in audio video content .

A digital video interface DVI could be used instead of HDMI but HDMI is preferred because it supports many useful protocols and multi channel audio as well. A tuner may be included in television set for over the air OTA broadcast reception or tuning through ordinary community cable TV CCTV service without a cable TV tuner. Alternatively a cable TV tuner could be included as a personality adapter or integrated within the TV itself.

An HDMI interface naturally includes a consumer electronic control CEC interface . The CEC provides a back channel that can be used for global device discovery and control e.g. single remote control of all devices on the CEC bus. CEC assumes that all the AV sources in a system are directly or indirectly connected to a root. The various HDMI connections virtually form an upside down tree with the video display as the root the switches as branches and the various sources as leaf nodes. Unfortunately CEC is a low speed communications channel so TV is equipped with the USB interface to enable higher data rate reverse channel communication with devices also attached to HDMI .

The TV will function as a conventional video monitor and can be connected to display video and audio from cable tuners DVD players digital video recorders personal computers and other consumer electronics devices. The user simply plugs an HDMI cable connector into HDMI and such is the usual way a typical consumer would expect to use TV . Several such HDMI interfaces can be provided on a single TV e.g. to eliminate having to swap connections around for different uses and applications.

An extended display identification EDID circuit is included in TV to uniquely identify the TV to an inquiry presented on the HDMI . EDID is a standard defined and published by the Video Electronics Standards Association VESA . EDID s include codes for each manufacturer s name product type phosphor filter type timings supported by the display display size luminance data pixel mapping data etc. Such EDID will identify TV through its make and model codes as being capable of working with a range of special application extension modules as having high bandwidth digital content protection HDCP capability etc. For example the personality adapters will be able to identify through their interfaces that TV is compatible and authorized.

A high bandwidth digital content protection HDCP circuit responds to a secure protocol defined in a standard published by Intel Corporation. A proper HDCP response will unlock high definition HD video sources so that they will provide their highest resolution video to the HDMI . HDCP engagement means that data transfers over the HDMI will be encrypted to prevent interception by eavesdroppers. HDCP is a form of Digital Rights Management DRM developed by Intel Corporation to control digital audio and video content as it travels across DVI or HDMI connections. The specification is proprietary and creating an implementation of HDCP requires a license. HDCP is licensed by Digital Content Protection a subsidiary of Intel. Licensees agree to limit the capabilities of their products when requested by the source e.g. high definition digital video content must be restricted to DVD quality on non HDCP compliant video outputs. DVD audio content is restricted to DAT quality on non HDCP digital audio outputs. Licensees must design their products to not allow their devices to make copies of content and the design must effectively frustrate attempts to defeat content protection.

HDCP operates to prevent interception or play of non encrypted high definition content by unlicensed display devices. An authentication process disallows non licensed devices from receiving HD content. Encryption of the actual data sent over DVI or HDMI interface prevents eavesdropping of information and prevents man in the middle attacks. Key revocation procedures ensure that devices manufactured by any vendors who violate the license agreement can be blocked from receiving HD data. Updated lists of valid keys are circulated in background via various publication mediums e.g. DVD s with licensed content.

Each HDCP capable device has a unique set of keys there are forty keys each 56 bits long. These keys are confidential and failure to keep them secret may be seen as a violation of the license agreement. For each set of keys a key selection vector KSV is created. For example each KSV has 20 bits set to zero and the other 20 bits set to one.

During the authentication process both parties exchange their KSV s. Then each device adds without overflow its own secret keys together according to a KSV received from another device. If a particular bit in the vector is set to one then the corresponding secret key is used in the addition otherwise it is ignored. Keys and KSV s are generated in such a way that both devices will compute the same 56 bit number as a result. That number is later used in the encryption process.

Encryption is performed by a stream cipher. Each decoded pixel is encrypted by applying an XOR operation with a 24 bit number produced by a generator. The HDCP standard provides for repeated key updating e.g. after each encoded frame. If a particular manufacturer s model is considered compromised its associated KSV is added into a revocation list that is duplicated by cooperating publishers on their disks produced with HD content. Each revocation list is signed with a digital signature using the DSA algorithm to prevent malicious users from revoking legitimate devices. During the authentication process if the receiver s KSV matches one in a revocation list the source has on hand the source blacklists the receiver as compromised and will refuse to send HD data to it.

Alternative ways to provide interface security are represented by interface security module . Such would be used for example when a single manufacturer wanted to restrict interconnections between devices to only those within its family of proprietary products and not simply to anyone s HDCP device. A TV set manufacturer may also want to secure the link between the remote commander and remote control manager in which case interface security module could provide the necessary encryption and validation. Rolling codes as are commonly used in digital garage door openers could also be used to secure the remote control link.

The HDMI USB pairing security module can receive an encrypted challenge on HDMI and respond with an encrypted answer on USB . Such challenge can be derived from a random number generated or an HDCP key. This could be important when a content source attached to both HDMI and USB needs to verify that the two interfaces are paired together on a single display device such as TV . For example spoofing with a PC connected to the sources USB connector can be prevented because the PC will not receive the challenge on the HDMI and cannot generate the correct encrypted answer.

The user interface UI controller is able to receive UI templates that provide function and look and feel particulars to the on screen menu and remote control manager . Such allow the remote commander to be re personalized for each application to which TV may then be assigned. The on screen menu and associated touch screen are then re configured to change and fit particular applications.

Near field communication NFC is preferably used to allow the remote commander to download an appropriate electronic program guide EPG from TV . An infrared IR wireless channel is used in a conventional way to transmit user commands from the remote commander to the TV . The large data volume associated with EPG is triaged by sending over the essential channel information first and then sending the details of each program as secondary data. Program information for showings more than three hours out are transferred as tertiary data e.g. later as time permits. That way the relatively slow speed NFC medium can be used to satisfy the most immediate and most probable information needs of the user.

Remote control manager may be configured to receive only IR commands that have been encrypted or otherwise convoluted so as to recognize only remote commander . The object of this is to prevent the substitution of a universal type remote commander that could not support the full user interface and capabilities of remote commander .

The personality adapter may alternatively be implemented as an application extension device in a set back box SBB type configuration. The SBB can query TV through the HDMI and access EDID to see if the TV is capable of operating with this particular SBB.

Personality adapters interface to the television set and provide it with a way to search for audio video source content and to access any audio video source content selected. For example with an Internet personality adapter an Internet service can enable registered paid subscribers to browse content lists and thumbnails. These are used to populate a user interface rendered on video display . The user selects which one to access using the touch screen and or remote commander . Such selection results in a uniform resource indicator and user interface templates needed for the user to interact with the provider and the audio video content .

The extended display identification data structure provided by EDID is the type usually provided by a computer display to describe its capabilities to a graphics card. This is what enables a modern personal computer to know what kind of monitor is connected. EDID is defined by a standard published by the Video Electronics Standards Association VESA . The EDID includes manufacturer name product type phosphor or filter type timings supported by the display display size luminance data and pixel mapping data. EDID structure 2.0 defines a new 256 byte structure. The channel for transmitting the EDID from the display to the graphics card is usually the IC bus. The combination of EDID and IC is called the Display Data Channel version 2 or DDC2. The 2 distinguishes it from VESA s original DDC which used a different serial format.

The TV client services network includes a management system with a management database a billing system with a billing database to invoice subscribers and accept payments a registration system and registration database to manage subscriber registrations and log ins a net navigator and navigation database a content system and a content download database and a TV electronic program guide EPG system and an EPG database .

Once a specific service has been selected by the user the television set transitions control of the video display to the client personality adapter and indicates to the platform the selected service. The service platform keeps a current list of the authorized data service providers e.g. individual records with the URI data for each featured service. The server is always the root source for UI templates and design albeit the actual HTML CSS and JavaScript data may be cached on the client to improve local performance. Any partner service selected by a user from the TV menu will provide a dynamic content portion displayed within a corresponding UI template. The URI data record for each particular service includes a field for a CSS script associated with the service in order to support modification of the UI displayed template e.g. overlaying the logo of the user selected service provider. The scripts associated with the UI provided by the server execute the same for all service providers. There is a syntax for the requests and an expected response syntax.

The server is aware of the requirements and limitations of UI with respect to the size and quantity of images that can be displayed at one time. It would also understand the relationship between a particular image and the associated heading. The server is required to format the lists returned to the requestor for presentation by UI .

Essentially TV client services network is an array of databases server and network elements that implement the finding and delivery of URI links and associated metadata for audio video content available on the Internet.

A gatekeeper model permits one organization to concierge control and profit from all the content accessed by TV client . The actual content need not be hosted only pointers to it in the form of URI s. Such responses to clients an XML list and description of the services provided. A really simple syndication RSS link server provides an XML list of RSS services to the TV client . Such links can be tested and certified as to their quality. Content creators are charged a fee for having their links and referrals featured. Music and video streams are managed by a specialized server. The network locations of the concierge are hardwired in so that the user interfaces are simplified. The concierge is then able to engage in load balancing of a large support infrastructure needed to service a large population of TV clients twenty four hours a day seven days a week.

The data flow for a net navigator is presented in . A TV client such as previously described is interfaced through the Internet to an enterprise back end behind a transactional server . The transactional server can be implemented as a Linux Apache Php platform. A net spider bot searches for and identifies URI data for audio video content publicly available on the Internet. The raw information is stored in a candidate content link database . Content can be submitted voluntarily to a content submit server and the contributed information is added to the candidate content link database . TV client is able to exchange service and content usage information with tracking manager . The URI information is formatted into records that include metadata and thumbnail posters created from the content. Each record is sorted using multiple sort keys and their indices are also stored by a process in a link record database . A link audit bot confirms the links collected are valid and continue to be valid. A management system controls this and other processes e.g. UI templates registration lists images tracking and upgrading. A webserver UI manager and database supply the UI templates that fit particular content being browsed or downloaded by the TV client . UI content is service specific. The UI manager delivers scripts that are rendered by the TV client into user interfaces which allow the image manager to populate the UI menus with thumbnails of the audio video content available.

A registration manager and database are used to control system access to authorized users e.g. TV client equipment purchasers or paid subscribers. A list manager provides lists of content computed from the link record database . Thumbnails are provided to the TV client to make browsing quick and easy. A tracking manager collects service and content usage information e.g. to price advertising and to improve the kind of content being offered generally or to particular users.

In various embodiments it may be desirable to automatically transfer user selectable settings from the TV to a personality adapter so that the user does not have to manually input those settings each time that the personality adapter is used. Upon connecting the personality adapter to the TV a notification is transmitted from one device to the other when a setting or configuration is initially created or updated. The various devices can each include a configuration manager and a settings database to implement these features.

One communication interface that may be used to communicate setting information between the TV and a personality adapter is the USB channel previously described. One advantage of USB technology is that when a peripheral device is connected to a host s USB bus the device is immediately recognized by the host dynamically enumerated and assigned an address. The host and the device then perform a query response protocol to enable the host to obtain information about the device such as the class of device and various other details that the host computer needs to know for its operation. This can include user defined settings in the devices.

In one embodiment the personality adapter includes a settings database that stores various user selected values associated with the personality adapter that have been manually input by the user. The user can set the values for the various items in the settings database in a well known manner through a user input not shown that may for example present a menu on the television or other display device.

Personality adapter includes a configuration manager e.g. microprocessor and associated software or firmware for interacting with the TV and for downloading from the TV any available user selectable settings that are needed by the personality adapter . The personality adapter s configuration manager includes a listing of the known fields for the personality adapter that are user selectable as well as the currently selected values or settings for those fields. The personality adapter s configuration manager can determine those settings stored in TV which are applicable to the personality adapter and apply those settings to the personality adapter . The personality adapter s configuration manager can also send the personality adapter s settings to the TV for future reference such as in the event it becomes necessary to re input the settings into the personality adapter should it lose its previous settings.

Similarly TV includes a settings database that stores various user selected values. The user can set the values for the various fields in the settings database in a well known manner through a user input. The settings database saves the settings associated with the TV as well as the settings used in the personality adapter .

In one embodiment user selected settings are accessed during initialization e.g. during power on or reset of the personality adapter when it is connected to the TV through the interface . At initialization the personality adapter s configuration manager sends a query to the TV requesting that the TV access user selected settings for various fields that have been stored in the TV settings database. The requested settings are downloaded from the TV to the personality adapter s configuration manager which in turn processes the received information and then populates the fields of the personality adapter s settings database. More specifically the personality adapter s configuration manager compares the current settings if any of each field in its settings database with settings received from the TV . For those fields in which the settings are not the same the personality adapter s configuration manager replaces the settings in the personality adapter s settings database with the setting received from the TV for the corresponding field.

If a user creates or updates a setting or configuration when the TV is subsequently placed in communication with the personality adapter or another device the personality adapter s configuration manager will be notified of the change and will request the new setting for the field or fields that have been updated.

The personality adapter s configuration manager uses a configuration exchange protocol to communicate with the TV . This protocol exchanges data files that can be prepared and generated independently of the communication medium e.g. a USB bus. That is the contents and structure of the files can be independent of the medium the file is transported across. In one embodiment the file format uses the eXtensible Markup Language XML to store the information but a person skilled in the art will recognize that any structure can be used to store the information in the message. Similarly the files sent to the personality adapter can have similar or identical content even though packaged for transmission along different media. Thus for example a file containing configuration settings can be sent along any communication medium and can be understood by the personality adapter s configuration manager even though sent along different communication media and therefore packaged differently.

One reason for using a structure such as XML is that it decouples the content of the file from the communication medium. With the content of a file being independent from the communication medium over which the file is to be transmitted personality adapter s configuration manager does not have to deal with low level communication protocols. There are other advantages to an embodiment that uses a structure like XML that is independent of the communication medium. For example when a message uses an encoding that packs the information and interprets a particular bit to have a particular meaning both the TV and the personality adapter need to know how to generate and interpret such encodings. If the encoding is dependent on the communication medium used to transmit the message the TV and personality adapter need to know how to generate and interpret multiple encodings which increases complexity since any change to the data to be transmitted might have to be propagated to each encoding . By using a structure like XML that is independent of the medium and also independent of the protocol the TV and personality adapter both only need to know how to interpret one structure in the illustrative embodiment XML.

It should be noted that the settings may be communicated to personality adapter from the TV in either a push or pull manner depending on how the configuration exchange protocol is structured. In a typical client server environment involving a pull the client engages a server with a request for service or information. The server responds to the request and returns information to the client. This interaction is referred to as a pull because the customer is effectively pulling information from the server. In the example presented above the settings are communicated in the manner of a pull since the personality adapter initiates the request. In a push interaction the server is transmitting information to the client without explicit instruction from the client to do so. This interaction is referred to as a push because the server is effectively pushing information to the client. In the present case the TV may push the settings located in its settings database to the personality adapter whenever they are connected to one another through the USB channel.

The ability to exchange settings between the TV and personality adapter in the manner described above provides a number of advantages. For example it allows the user to avoid entering the same setting multiple times into each type of personality adapter. For instance once a language option in the menu of the TV is chosen to be English that setting can be shared with various personality adapters that are connected to the TV . In addition one device such as the TV for example can store the settings of all of the personality adapters in its nonvolatile memory. In the event that a personality adapter loses its settings it can readily retrieve them from the TV without requiring the user to manually re enter them. The settings that can be retrieved may include those that are commonly shared among the personality adapters as well as those settings that are specific to the personality adapter retrieving them.

Another feature of the arrangement described above is that one device can query another concerning its settings. For example if a first personality adapter has many of the same setting options as a second personality adapter wants to use the settings from the second personality adapter the first personality adapter can send a query to the TV television to retrieve the second personality adapter s settings and forward them to the first personality adapter. The configuration manager in the first personality adapter can determine which settings obtained from the second personality adapter that are applicable to the first personality adapter. In this way one device can collect the settings from another device and determine which settings are applicable for its purposes. The device will then only prompt the user to manually enter those settings that are not available from the other device.

It will be appreciated from the discussion above that various means can be employed to ensure that the TV and a personality adapter are authorized to communicate with each other. The intent of employing such means to allow the manufacturer of TV to prevent counterfeit or unauthorized personality adapters from being used in its television and similarly a manufacturer can prevent its personality adapters from being used in a counterfeit or unauthorized television. The following discussion is intended to supplement the discussion above and provide additional details and or embodiments of means for securing such communication.

It will be appreciated that a modern TV typically includes among other components a microprocessor or the like for executing code in the form of software or firmware for operation of the television including but not limited to rendering graphical user interfaces. Such a TV also typically includes a data storage device such as an extended display identification data EDID electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM . Further a typical high definition television includes at least one HDMI based interface which itself may include interface storage such as an EEPROM or one time programming OTP ROM. The processor is typically configured to execute programming stored in the EDID data storage device or other data storage device associated with the television.

TV is provided by a particular manufacturer and therefore the manufacturer is in a position to supply TV with encryption information. This encryption information which may originate from the TV manufacturer directly or from a third party interface licensor can include television unique encryption information as well as a list of authorized source encryption information. For example in the case of an HDMI interface the television unique encryption information can be a High Definition Content Protection HDCP key selection vector KSV and if desired the KSV can be stored in memory typically associated with the HDMI interface. In this way the KSV can be regarded as a public or private key that is used for authentication. The list may also be a list of KSVs associated with source devices such as a personality adapter .

Additionally a manufacturer ID authority may communicate with the television manufacturer to supply a manufacturer unique ID to the television manufacturer. A list of authorized manufacturer IDs in turn can be stored in a television data storage device such as an extended display identification data EDID electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM . For example the manufacturer ID authority may be an extended industry standard architecture EISA authority who can supply manufacturers with three byte Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE manufacturer IDs.

With the above in mind a television manufacturer may wish to restrict the use of personality adapters to only those manufactured or supplied by that television manufacturer. The television manufacturer can also authorize partner companies e.g. subcontractors to manufacture and supply personality adapters . For example one approach would be for the television manufacturer to obtain from each approved subcontractor encryption information such as HDCP KSVs for each type of personality adapter that the subcontractor would like to have approved for operation with the manufacturer s televisions. The television manufacturer would then construct a data structure such as a table of encryption information associated with approved personality adapters e.g. a table of the KSVs of the personality adapters that the subcontractor would allow to be operable with the manufacturer s televisions. If desired the data structure can be partitioned by manufacturer ID equivalently separate data structures can be provided for each manufacturer ID . Of course the television manufacturer may also be a provider of the personality adapters in which case the encryption information associated with the personality adapters that are provided by the television manufacturer would also entered into the approved device data structure.

Subsequent to manufacturer approval of subcontractor supplied personality adapters when a manufacturer s television is sold to a consumer and the consumer attempts to connect a personality adapter to the television apart from any conventional use of the encryption information e.g. apart from using HDCP KSVs for key exchange authentication etc. in accordance with HDCP principles known in the art or equivalently apart from using DTCP certificates for authentication software or firmware executed by the microprocessor found in the television proceeds to determine whether the KSV or other encryption information presented by the source is in the data structure of approved source information. In this regard the data structure may be provided to each manufacturer television and stored in e.g. the television storage and or interface storage. Alternatively the television microprocessor may access a server database on the Internet which stores the data structure. If desired the personality adapter can also provide its associated manufacturer ID so that the search of the data structure which can be partitioned by manufacturer ID can be executed more quickly.

If the encryption information presented by the personality adapter is not in the data structure of approved encryption information the television disallows operation of the personality adapter . In essence this portion of the logic is not encryption based authentication since nothing is encrypted decrypted instead the information necessary for encrypting decrypting is merely examined to determine whether it is in the data structure of approved encryption information without yet using it for encryption decryption. Thus the process can end even before conventional encryption based authentication protocol is performed.

On the other hand if the encryption information presented by the personality adapter is in the data structure of approved encryption information the television executes the encryption based authentication protocol which can include conventional HDCP key exchange authentication and so forth. If the encryption based authentication protocol succeeds the television allows the personality adapter to operate otherwise operation of the personality adapter is disallowed. In some instances the interface might not be operated with conventional encryption e.g. HDCP activated. In these cases there would be no need for the HDCP key exchange authentication and so forth and the personality adapter could be allowed to operate based solely on its KSV being on the authorized list.

Another approach relies on data transfer over the HDMI and USB channels. As described previously in various embodiments the interface between a TV and personality adapter includes complementary HDMI and USB ports on those devices. The personality adapter may further include a microprocessor that can execute code in the form of software or firmware stored on a data storage medium in the personality adapter. The storage medium on the personality adapter may be without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM disk based storage etc.

In one embodiment the personality adapter reads an encryption element from the TV through the HDMI channel. For example the encryption element can be the HDCP key of the TV e.g. the key colloquially referred to as Bksv .

The personality adapter then returns the HDCP key to the TV over the USB channel. When the TV s HDCP key is returned the personality adapter may encrypt it first prior to sending it over the USB channel. The TV compares the received encryption element after decrypting it if necessary with the encryption element that it sent to the personality adapter over the HDMI channel and if a match is found returns a signal indicating that the HDMI and USB ports of the TV are properly engaged with corresponding ports on personality adapter . This signal may result in displaying a message to the user using the TV or not but the import is that continued communication between the TV and personality adapter is permitted.

In contrast if the TV fails to find a matching encryption element returned over the USB channel an error or other signal indicating that communication between the TV and personality adapter should cease in that the personality adapter was unable to return a proper encryption element over the USB channel. The TV thereafter does not communicate with the personality adapter unless and until the authentication process is repeated and is successful.

In an alternative embodiment the personality adapter reads an encryption element from the TV through the HDMI channel. The encryption element can be a random number that is generated pursuant to HDCP authentication using the HDCP keys of the TV and personality adapter colloquially referred to as Bksv and Aksv respectively.

The personality adapter returns the encryption element to the TV over the USB channel. The TV then compares the received encryption element after decrypting it if necessary with the encryption element that it sent to the personality adapter over the HDMI channel. If a match is found a signal is returned indicating that the HDMI and USB ports of the TV are properly engaged with corresponding ports of the personality adapter . This signal may result in displaying a message to the user using the TV or not but the import is that continued communication between the TV and personality adapter is permitted.

In contrast if the TV fails to find a matching encryption element returned over the USB channel an error or other signal is returned indicating that communication between the TV and personality adapter should cease in that the personality adapter was unable to return a proper encryption element over the USB channel. The TV thereafter does not communicate with the personality adapter unless and until the authentication process is repeated and is successful.

The above authentication processes may be executed more than once. For example since the HDCP random number is generated periodically each time a new random number is generated the processes above can be executed to ensure continued legitimate reception of data in the USB channel.

Still another approach to protecting the TV from communicating with a personality adapter that is not pre approved by television manufacturer or authorized under for example a licensing agreement is a pairing process. Once the communication interface is authorized the TV and personality adapter are considered paired together. In a preferred embodiment the TV is able to pair with one or more personality adapters . The pairing of the devices may be transient however because the devices may be de coupled or disconnected from each other and then re attached or connected. Thus the TV may be able to subsequently pair back up with a personality adapter with which it had previously authorized a communication interface.

In some less preferred variations of the present embodiment the TV may be configured to couple with only one personality adapter and thus the only authorized communication interface is with the personality adapter to which it is first coupled and with which it is determined that the coupling or pairing is approved and or proper. In other variations the TV may be configured to couple with only a certain type of personality adapter e.g. only personality adapters with acceptable attributes such as a specific authorized manufacturer or less preferably with a predetermined number of personality adapters. Thus it is possible to prevent a counterfeit or otherwise unauthorized personality adapter from functioning in TV .

In one embodiment the pairing method begins when TV detects the connection of a personality adapter thereto. In some embodiments a coupling is detected when the TV and personality adapter are coupled or connected together and for example the personality adapter attempts to establish a communication interface with TV . Detecting the coupling may comprise for example TV detecting a load being placed on a port. In some variations detecting a load may comprise detecting a change in resistance a change in current draw a pin pulled to ground or any other method known in the art. For example in some embodiments detecting a coupling may comprise the TV receiving a signal indicating that the personality adapter is attempting to establish a communication interface. Further detecting the coupling may also comprise detecting that it is a second or subsequent attempt to establish a communication interface.

In some variations of the present embodiment the TV may request some kind of identification from the personality adapter to verify that the personality adapter is authorized to communicate with the TV . The identification requested may be for example a certificate issued to the personality adapter during manufacturing. The personality adapter may be configured to send the certificate upon attempting to establish a communication interface or attempting to couple with the TV . In some variations this identification is a pairing certificate and at least the TV and or the personality adapter is issued a unique pairing certificate prior to a customer purchasing the equipment. Further in some embodiments the pairing certificate is secret and remains protected or encrypted upon submitting or transferring it in order to establish the communication interface.

In some embodiments the TV may request the pairing certificate from the personality adapter in a first attempt to establish a communication interface. In other embodiments the personality adapter may automatically submit the pairing certificate to the TV upon detecting a coupling or a connection of the two and the fact that it is an initial attempt to establish a communication interface.

One step in the method is for the TV to certify that the pairing certificate is valid. In some variations of the present embodiment certifying that the pairing certificate is valid may comprise the TV accessing a database or a table listing the type manufacturer and or unique identification information for each personality adapter with which it is authorized to communicate. In some embodiments the determination may include the TV finding the manufacturer of the personality adapter the database of authorized manufacturers.

Alternatively or additionally the TV may find the unique identification information such as the pairing certificate of the coupling module listed in the database. The certifying of the pairing certificate is verification that the TV and the personality adapter are pre approved to pair or pre approved to authorize to establish a communication interface with each other. However the communication interface between the two must still be authorized before the pairing of the TV and personality adapter may continue or communications is allowed.

Once the pairing certificate is certified an operating certificate is issued to the personality adapter . The operating certificate is unique between the TV and the personality adapter and in some embodiments once used may not be regenerated or copied for use in another system. In some variations the operating certificate is issued by TV to the personality adapter . In other variations the personality adapter may receive the operating certificate from a remote device for example a server accessed over the internet. Furthermore the operating certificate may be unique between more than two personality adapters all of which are being paired to the TV in an authorized communication interface.

In some variations after the operating certificate is issued the personality adapter submits the operating certificate to the TV . Accordingly the personality adapter stores the operating certificate. In some variations once the operating certificate has been issued and or stored the TV may authorize the communication interface. In some variations the TV further confirms the operating certificate before authorizing the communication interface. Thus the properly coupled TV and personality adapter are permitted to continue with paired communications over the authorized communication interface. In other words the TV and personality adapter are paired together with a secure interface and may exchange information and in some embodiments are protected from migrating to or interfacing with another unauthorized device. In some embodiments the pairing of the devices is certified at the point of certifying the pairing certificate but is not confirmed and authorized until the operating certificate has been issued.

Additionally because in some embodiments the operating certificate is unique between the TV and the personality adapter the TV may be configured to recognize it was once paired with the personality adapter . Thus the TV may authorize the communication interface upon the TV subsequently coupling to the personality adapter by detecting it is a subsequent attempt to establish communication and thereby confirming the validity of the operating certificate.

By way of example the personality adapter may be a storage device that contains a new software application that a user desires to transfer to a TV that is already configured with a personal computer PC personality adapter. An unauthorized personality adapter would not be allowed to transfer the new software application to the TV unless the communication interface has been authorized. Thus in some embodiments the TV authorizes the communication interface with the personality adapter prior to transferring the new software application. Further if the TV is unable to authorize the communication interface the TV will pause communication until the interface has been authorized or alternatively may terminate communication with the personality adapter if the interface is not authorized.

Continuing with the example above the personality adapter detects that it is being coupled to the PC configured TV and submits the pairing certificate appointed to the personality adapter at the time of manufacturing. The PC configured TV is configured to review a list of pairing certificates to certify that the one submitted by the personality adapter is valid. Once the PC configured TV certifies the pairing certificate of the personality adapter an operating certificate is issued to the personality adapter and is typically stored on the personality adapter . In some embodiments the personality adapter submits the operating certificate to the PC configured TV the PC configured TV confirms that the operating certificate is valid and sends an authorization to the personality adapter to allow paired communication. In other embodiments receiving the operating certificate from personality adapter indicates that the communication interface is authorized and thus the PC TV allows paired communication between the TV and the PC. The personality adapter is now authorized to transfer the new software application to the PC configured TV .

Additionally the personality adapter may be removed from the PC configured TV and subsequently coupled again to the PC configured TV . Upon a second or subsequent coupling the communication interface between the personality adapter and the PC configured TV must again be authorized. Thus the personality adapter may submit the previously issued operating certificate for the PC configured TV to confirm is valid. Once the personality adapter again receives authorization from the PC configured TV the communication interface and paired communication are allowed. Thus if needed the personality adapter may be authorized to again transfer the software application to the PC configured TV .

It is noted however that the operating certificate is not configured for authorizing a communication interface between the personality adapter and a different PC configured TV . Thus the personality adapter will repeat the sequence for authorizing the communication interface with all other devices with which it is attempting to couple. In some embodiments the personality adapter may be unable to establish a communication interface with other devices in order to protect the software application on the personality adapter from being hacked or used in an unauthorized manner.

In some variations of the present embodiment a personality adapter may be configured to couple with a predetermined maximum number of TVs . In some embodiments one method of configuring the personality adapter to limit the number of televisions with which it may couple is by modifying the pairing certificate after a communication interface is authorized. For example in some embodiments the pairing certificate appointed to the personality adapter is stored in memory on the personality adapter prior to the customer purchasing the personality adapter. In some variations the pairing certificate is modified by erasing the pairing certificate from memory after authorizing a first communication interface. Thus the personality adapter is unable to submit the pairing certificate to another TV after it has been erased and accordingly the module is limited to paired communication with only one TV .

In other embodiments the pairing certificate may be modified by the personality adapter to indicate the number of TVs with which it has previously submitted the pairing certificate paired and or authorized a communication interface e.g. the number of interfaces the module has determined secure . And once the predetermined maximum number of TVs with which the personality adapter pairs with is reached for example the personality adapter may be required to modify erase and or obliterate the pairing certificate. Thus after modifying the pairing certificate in some embodiments the personality adapter is prevented from communicating with an additional TV .

Accordingly in some embodiments unauthorized devices can be prevented from using a proprietary interface. Additionally unauthorized migration e.g. removal from the originally paired device to another device can be prevented. By way of example a TV pairs with and or authorizes a communication interface with a personality adapter . The personality adapter is then removed from the TV and is connected to another TV . In some embodiments the personality adapter will be unable to authorize a second communication interface and thus is unable to migrate to and be used with another TV . By implementing the method described above the personality adapter will remain paired with the TV and prevented from pairing with another device.

By way of example the TV detects a personality adapter coupling to the communication interface by receiving for example a power on signal a hot plug detect signal detecting an increase in current being drawn from the communication interface or detecting a pin or signal line being pulled to ground. As described above the communication interface may be configured to initiate the authorization of communication between the TV and the personality adapter by requesting identification information.

In some embodiments the personality adapter may retrieve a pairing certificate for example from a storage device to submit to the TV through the communication interface . In some embodiments the pairing certificate is a unique identification code appointed to the personality adapter indexed in a database and installed or stored in the storage device prior to the customer purchasing the personality adapter .

As described above in some embodiments the TV first certifies that the personality adapter is authentic and is a pre approved device with which the TV may couple. In some embodiments this is accomplished by the certifying module or process certifying that the pairing certificate submitted by the personality adapter is valid. In some variations of the present embodiment the certifying module or process may access information in the database to compare the pairing certificate to the indexed list of acceptable personality adapters with which to the TV may pair.

In some embodiments the database information accessed by the certifying module or process is stored locally for example in memory in the TV . In other embodiments the certifying module or process accesses the database information that is stored for example on a remote server. In some embodiments the certifying module or process may periodically access the remote server over the Internet to download and locally store updated information in the database such that when an attempt to secure an interface is made the certifying module or process can access the database rapidly.

In some variations of the present embodiment the TV and the personality adapter may exchange pairing certificates and individually verify the other device is acceptable or pre approved with which to pair. In yet other embodiments each of the TV and the personality adapter include certifying module or process and for example may further be configured to access a server on a network in order to certify the submitted pairing certificate is listed in the database of pre approved devices with which to pair.

Once the pairing certificate has been certified an operating certificate may be issued to the personality adapter . In some variations the personality adapter is configured to receive the operating certificate and must do so in order to obtain authorization to communicate with TV . In some embodiments the issued operating certificate may be stored on the personality adapter for future pairing.

In some embodiments the certifying module or process issues the operating certificate to the personality adapter and the personality adapter waits for confirmation of authorization after submitting the new operating certificate to the TV . In other embodiments the TV issues the operating certificate to the personality adapter indicating the communication interface is authorized and thus allowing paired communication. In other variations once the operating certificate is issued and or submitted for confirmation by the personality adapter the communication interface between the TV and the personality adapter is authorized and the devices allow paired communication.

In some embodiments the issued operating certificate may be stored in the storage device and submitted and certified upon a subsequent coupling of the TV and the personality adapter . However in addition to limiting the number of TVs with which the personality adapter may pair the system may limit the number of times the TV and the personality adapter may pair in similar methods.

In some embodiments the pairing certificate is secret identification information appointed to the personality adapter by the manufacturer for example and is stored in a storage device. The storage device may be flash or non volatile memory configured to be modified by the personality adapter . Thus once the TV authorizes a communication interface with the personality adapter the personality adapter may erase or modify the pairing certificate stored in the storage device. Accordingly once the personality adapter erases the pairing certificate for example the personality adapter is unable to subsequently pair or authorize a communication interface with other devices as the information required for authorization is no longer available.

In some embodiments the TV may detect when a personality adapter is connected to the TV . In some embodiments the TV may detect a coupling by receiving for example a power on signal or hot plug detect signal from the personality adapter at the communication interface . After detecting the coupling of the device an authorization sequence is initiated either by the TV or the personality adapter . In some embodiments the personality adapter initiates the authorization by submitting a pairing certificate to the TV or for example the TV may initiate the authorization sequence by requesting identification information from the personality adapter attempting to communicate. Next the TV certifies the pairing certificate through a certifying module or process for example by locating the pairing certificate in a database listing devices that are pre approved for communication. After certifying that the pairing certificate is valid the TV issues the personality adapter an operating certificate.

Accordingly in some embodiments the personality adapter confirms authorization by submitting the issued operating certificate to the TV . Once the TV confirms the operating certificate is valid the communication interface between the TV and the personality adapter is authorized. At this point the personality adapter may modify or destroy the pairing certificate. In some embodiments the personality adapter stores the operating certificate in the storage device or for example replaces the pairing certificate with the operating certificate. Accordingly if the personality adapter is removed from the TV upon a subsequent coupling the personality adapter submits the operating certificate again to the TV . The TV confirms the operating certificate to be valid. At this point the TV and the personality adapter authorize the communication interface and operational status is reached wherein the TV and personality adapter are paired together and are allowed to communicate over the authorized communication interface.

In some embodiments the certifying module or process is on the TV and may be configured to access a server over a wide area network when certifying the pairing certificate. Additionally or alternatively the certifying module or process on the TV may be configured to download over a network a list from the database of possible pairing certificates for personality adapters with which the TV is pre approved to communicate. Additionally the certifying module or process on the TV may be configured to receive and or retrieve operating certificates from a server over a network and transfer the operating certificates to personality adapters with which the TV has certified are proper or pre approved with which to pair. In other embodiments the certifying module or process may be configured to generate the operating certificates for the personality adapter .

As mentioned above a storage device on the personality adapter may be configured to store the pairing certificate. In some embodiments the TV and or the personality adapter are designed with a communication interface that is configured to use High Bandwidth Digital Content Protection HDCP . When using the HDCP licensed format a key selection vector is used that has a unique value which is somewhat like a public key to communicate with other devices. In some embodiments this key may be appointed and registered in connection with the device when it is manufactured. This key may be used to track a device and may be used in generating the secret identification code e.g. the pairing certificate for the device and indexing the secret identification code in a database. Additionally the TV and or the personality adapter may have access to the database containing a table listing the key selection vector the secret identification code and or pairing certificate the manufacturer and the corresponding device for example. The coupling devices may use this database in order to verify a key actually belongs to the device that is attempting to couple and is thus valid. This is a method that may be implemented however is not necessary to practice the described embodiments.

In some embodiments the personality adapter may be configured to access the storage device a predetermined maximum number of times. In some embodiments this could limit the number of times that the personality adapter accesses the storage device to submit the pairing certificate to the TV or for example limit the number of times the storage device is accessed to modify the pairing certificate after receiving an operating certificate. This enables a manufacturer to monitor and or limit the number of TVs with which the personality adapter is capable of pairing and authorizing a communication interface. By way of example if the personality adapter authorizes a communication interface with the TV and the user attempts to move the personality adapter to another TV the personality adapter may not be able to authorize a communication interface with the new TV if the pairing certificate of the personality adapter has been submitted the maximum number of times or for example the pairing certificate has been modified or erased such that it may not be certified by the certifying module or process anymore.

In some variations of the present embodiment the TV and or the personality adapter having already been paired in an authorized communication interface may detect a coupling of a third device e.g. a second personality adapter . Thus in some embodiments at least one of the TV and or the first personality adapter receives a second pairing certificate from the second personality adapter and certifies that the pairing certificate is valid between the second personality adapter and the at least one of the TV and the first personality adapter . After certifying that the second pairing certificate is valid a second operating certificate is issued and is stored on at least one of the TV the first personality adapter and the second personality adapter. Thus the communication interface between the second personality adapter and the at least one of the TV and or the first personality adapter is authorized and the second personality adapter allows paired communication over the authorized communication interface. In some embodiments the second personality adapter may be paired with only one of the TV and the first personality adapter . In other embodiments the second personality adapter may be paired with both the TV and the first personality adapter .

In some embodiments a TV and a personality adapter are connected together and TV may begin to establish communication by first certifying if there is a valid operating certificate. In some embodiments the operating certificate is automatically submitted or exchanged by the personality adapter in some instances the operating certificate is provided upon request of the TV . If there is a valid operating certificate then the communication interface is authorized and the devices are allowed paired communication over the authorized communication interface.

If there is not a valid operating certificate then the personality adapter may submit the pairing certificate either automatically or upon request and the TV certifies that the coupling module s pairing certificate is valid. By way of example the TV manufactured by company X may determine the pairing certificate is not valid for example because the personality adapter was manufactured by company Y. Thus the TV determines the interface is not proprietary and thus not authorized. Accordingly communication between the TV and the personality adapter is denied and terminated.

However if the TV determines the pairing certificate is valid then an operating certificate may be issued to the personality adapter . And accordingly the communication interface is authorized between the TV and the personality adapter and the pair of devices proceeds with paired communication.

In other embodiments the personality adapter may have previously coupled with the TV a maximum number of times and accordingly the personality adapter has erased the pairing certificate after the last time the TV authorized a communication interface and permitted pairing. Thus the TV fails to certify the pairing certificate is valid and accordingly determines the interface is not authorized and denies communication.

By way of example the personality adapter may be configured to provide new features applications capabilities and or functionality to the TV . Thus the various embodiments of above described method may be used to protect the personality adapter from communicating with more than a maximum number of TVs and thus protecting the personality adapter from transferring these capabilities to unauthorized televisions. In other embodiments the above described variations of method may be used when it is desirable to pair the TV with the personality adapter in order to secure the devices together and limit the use of the personality adapter with other televisions. Thus the method may be used to protect a personality adapter and an interface from hacking and non licensed usage.

In another embodiment the TV may be considered a host device and the personality adapter may be considered a coupling device.

In some embodiments the host device comprises a communication interface configured to communicate with the coupling device. Additionally the communication interface of the host device may be coupled to or in communication with a certifying module. In some embodiments the certifying module may be a separate device coupled to the host device over a cable wire or wirelessly or for example the certifying module may be configured on or part of the host device.

In one embodiment the communication interface of the host device detects that a coupling device is being coupled to the host device. Accordingly the host device initiates an authorization sequence to determine if the coupling device is configured and or approved to interface with the host device.

In some embodiments the coupling device may respond to the initiation of the authorization sequence by transmitting a certificate of identification received by the host device. The certifying module may first confirm that the certificate of identification is a valid operating certificate. If the certificate is a valid operating certificate then the host device authorizes the communication interface and allows communication with the coupling device.

If the certificate is not a valid operating certificate then the certifying module determines if the certificate is a valid pairing certificate. If the host device fails to certify the certificate is a valid pairing certificate and a valid operating certificate then the host device denies communication with the coupling device. Thus if the coupling device had previously paired with another host device the previously authorized communication interface remains secure and the coupling device is restricted from communicating with a new host device.

If the certifying module determines the certificate of identification is a valid pairing certificate then the certifying module may issue an operating certificate to the coupling device. Accordingly the host device authorizes the communication interface with the coupling device and allows paired communication. Furthermore in some embodiments the interface between the host device and the coupling device is secured and the coupling device may not be capable authorizing a communication interface with another host device.

In another embodiment a coupling device comprising a communication interface may attempt to communicate with a host device as described above. In some embodiments the coupling device may also comprise a modifiable storage device coupled to the communication interface wherein the modifiable storage device is configured to store a pairing certificate. The storage device may also be configured to store an operating certificate issued to the coupling device.

In this embodiment the communication interface is configured to detect the coupling device is being coupled to a host device. In some embodiments the coupling device may be configured to identify that the coupling device has not previously attempted to establish a communication interface with the host device and thus this is an initial coupling. Then the coupling device retrieves the pairing certificate from the storage device and submits the pairing certificate to the host device.

The coupling device is configured to wait to receive an operating certificate from the host device. Accordingly the coupling device determines if an operating certificate was received and if an operating certificate was not received then the coupling device pauses communication until the operating certificate is received. Once the operating certificate is received the coupling device will modify the pairing certificate. Accordingly the coupling device authorizes the communication interface of the host device and proceeds with paired communication. It is noted that the host device may not certify the coupling device and thus the pause in communication by the coupling device may be indefinite.

In another embodiment as described above a coupling device comprising a communication interface may attempt to couple e.g. attempt to establish a communication interface with a host device. In some embodiments the coupling device determines that it has previously coupled to and or attempted to establish a communication interface with the host device. Thus the coupling device detects it is a subsequent coupling with the host device. Next the coupling device submits the previously issued operating certificate. The coupling device waits to receive confirmation from the host device that the operating certificate is valid. Thus the coupling device will pause communication until the confirmation is received. If confirmation is never received then the communication interface is not authorized and communication is not allowed. If the coupling device does receive confirmation of authorization then the coupling device authorizes the communication interface with the host device and proceeds with paired communication.

In some embodiments the modifiable storage device of the coupling device may be configured to modify or destroy the operating certificate after subsequently pairing with the host device a predetermined maximum number of times. Additionally the coupling device may be configured to restore the original pairing certificate after receiving authorization for example from the manufacturer. For example in the case of an exchange warranty or repair the pairing certificates may be re initialized as long as their serial numbers and other pertinent information were previously registered with the company after purchase. In some embodiments this may promote and increase the customer s effort to send in the product s registration information to the manufacturer or licensing company.

In other embodiments such as a demonstration unit used in a retail store to promote the product the devices could be temporarily paired while operating in a demonstration mode. Accordingly the device may comprise additional hardware or software protection in order to prevent the customer from making use of the demonstration mode. Alternatively the store may initially register the product with the manufacturing or licensing company and re initialize the pairing certificate with authorization when the unit is sold to a customer.

Depending on the application in some embodiments the pairing of the devices may be apparent to the user at the initial pairing for example by some kind of user interface warning. And in other embodiments the pairing and securing the interface may be transparent to the user.

In another embodiment as described above a coupling device attempts to communicate with a host device. The coupling device may detect the coupling and the communication attempt and may automatically submit a certificate of identification to the host device. Next the coupling device may pause communication until it receives either an operating certificate or confirmation of authorization. Accordingly if this is the initial coupling of the coupling device to the host device once the host device has certified the certificate of identification to be a valid pairing certificate the host device will send and the coupling device will receive the issued operating certificate. Once the coupling device receives the operating certificate then the coupling device modifies the pairing certificate. Thus accordingly the coupling device authorizes the communication interface between the host device and the coupling device and allows communication.

Additionally if this is a subsequent coupling of the coupling device to the host device then the host device sends and the coupling device receives confirmation that the certificate of identification is a valid operating certificate. Accordingly the coupling device authorizes the communication interface between the host device and the coupling device and allows communication.

It is noted that although some embodiments described herein include only a TV and a personality adapter the embodiments may be implemented when more than two modules are coupling together. For example the TV may couple with the personality adapter and a third module. In other variations the personality adapter may couple with the TV at a first communication interface and the third module at a second communication interface. Thus while the invention herein disclosed has been described by means of specific embodiments examples and applications thereof numerous modifications and variations could be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention set forth in the claims.

In the interest of conciseness various embodiments described above assume that it is the TV that is the host device and that the personality adapter is the coupling device. However the same methodologies may be used where the personality adapter is the host device and the TV is the coupling device.

Although the description above contains many details these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of this invention. Therefore it will be appreciated that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. All structural chemical and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described preferred embodiment that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Moreover it is not necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought to be solved by the present invention for it to be encompassed by the present claims.

