---

title: Computerized drop safe and control software
abstract: A computerized drop safe running control and security software on a central processing unit controlling (CPU) operating features on and access to the drop safe. A user hierarchy has different access policies for making different transactions into the safe. Vault door access is controlled by the CPU to allow user access according to enabled policies. Transactions into and out of the safe vaults, motovend tube dispenser, and currency recyclers are recorded by the amounts and the user making the transaction into a memory coupled to the CPU. This data is also reported to a point of sale control interface at another location using a modem or Ethernet connection. The CPU can also receive data and control inputs by the modem and Ethernet, permitting centralized accounting and vending control options. A back office at the store can also easily access the safe for data retrieval or control inputs into the CPU using an Ethernet local area network computer system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07428985&OS=07428985&RS=07428985
owner: Tidel Engineering, L.P.
number: 07428985
owner_city: Carrollton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070613
---
This application is a Divisional application of application Ser. No. 10 896 414 filed Jul. 22 2004 which is related to Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 489 802 filed on Jul. 24 2003 and Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 528 360 filed on Dec. 10 2003 in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and priority is claimed for these two earlier filings under 35 U.S.C. 120. The Provisional Patent Applications are also incorporated by reference into this patent application.

Numerous retail businesses operate under conditions leading to a high probability of robbery embezzlement or mishandling of funds. Most revenue in many small retail sales is in the form of cash receipts. Many small retail operations such as 24 hour convenience stores fast food establishments gas stations diners and liquor stores are targets of armed robberies on a frequent basis. Many criminals view these types of retail stores as repositories of several hundreds to thousands of dollars in small denomination bills e.g. 20 and less that are not tracked by serial number by the businesses and remain impossible to trace. During normal hours of operation these businesses can receive hundreds and even thousands of dollars in cash receipts.

In addition to armed robberies burglaries and the like these small businesses face other difficulty in fully controlling cash receipts. Typically armored car pickups will collect currency and transport the currency to a central location for counting and deposit into a bank account. Employees of these armored car operations have been known to pilfer these cash receipts. Mismatches between cash receipt records and actual cash deposited are more often than not dismissed as honest accounting errors or actual embezzlement and theft by store employees.

For many retail operations cash thefts by employees are an accepted reality. In many instances these store positions for cashiers are often transient filled by individuals that are working part time or gaining experience for better paying jobs at some future date. Less frequently an employee goes to work at a convenience store for a limited time to steal from the employer and depart before their dishonesty becomes apparent. Less often but still with distressing frequency store managers embezzle funds or manipulate accounting procedures to cover discrepancies.

As a deterrent to losses from dishonest employees and more importantly to reduce the perception of easy cash for armed robbers many retail operations have implemented policies that reduce the amount of accessible ready cash on a business premise. At the end of their shifts cashiers close out their registers and transfer their receipts both currency and check to a secured storage location on the store premises. Usually these deposits are in sealed envelopes and identify the employee and or identify the cash register. Many retail operations additionally require cashiers to periodically remove currency from their registers and deposit it into the secure location as a further means of reducing cash accumulation that can be stolen by robbers. The secure location is very often a restricted access safe. Restricted access safes that employees do not have access to that employees routinely deposit cash receipts into are now found in most retail operations.

Drop safes have been developed to address many of the security issues confronted by small businesses. In concept a drop safe provides a receptacle that a cashier can drop receipts into a secure compartment usually in an envelope with the identity of the employee and the amount of the currency and checks contained in the envelope. Typically employees in the store do not have access to the drop safe either because of no key no knowledge of the combination or access code or a time lock feature that permits entry only at designated times.

These drop safe designs have become increasingly sophisticated over the years evolving from relatively simple metal boxes with a single drop slot and or compartment for deposits into computerized multi compartment safes with currency vending options and currency denomination sensitive receptacles to receive currency. While computerized drop safes have improved control over store receipts current computerized drop safe designs and software applications have not provided a completely satisfactory solution. By and large the cash remains vulnerable to opportunist employees who can often pilfer cash when receipts are removed from the safe who can manipulate the receipt records to embezzle cash or third party employees banks armored car companies etc that have access to the cash and an ability to manipulate the receipt records and or accounting.

A drop safe incorporating computers operating security and accounting bookkeeping applications can provide access control and currency and receipt tallying and tracking functions. The development of these currency and information tracking abilities provides a capability for businesses to implement an accounting and security protocol that includes different accounting options for currency and receipt tracking accounting data management and historical reports. However individual customers usually desire individualized report formats that can vary greatly. For currently implemented and available accounting applications these report formats must be individually tailored and programmed into the drop safe program s software code by the safe manufacturer or a software developer. The applications must be rewritten to accommodate the customized report format and are not readily modified should new reports be desired and requested.

There is a need for an improved computerized drop safe incorporating a point of sale accounting system and software application that permits user modified reports accounting and security access protocols that deter both robbery and employee theft and embezzlement by providing automated currency tracking and accounting that is resistant to manipulation and alteration. Such a drop safe should also offer superior efficiencies by permitting real time monitoring by management of receipt deposits currency vends receipt records security monitoring e.g. individuals accessing safe and individuals making deposits generation of reports upon demand or automated generation of reports either locally at the store or at another location by business managers.

The invention is a computerized drop safe with an integrated computer central processing unit CPU that acts as a robbery deterrent and provides or integrates with a store s Point of Sales POS and accounting systems to reduce internal theft. The control software is designed and optimized for multi location retailers to provide a remote centralized monitoring and control option and or a back office monitoring and control option for in store managers but it can be operated as a stand alone safe at a single location retailer.

The computerized drop safe possesses an Ethernet connection for a local area network LAN which provides an interface to a Point of Sale System POS and or a modem interface to support centralized management and monitoring. The drop safe can also link to a printer to print out reports locally at the retail business location. A bill acceptor is also integrated into the safe for depositing paper currency and this bill acceptor includes a sensor or validator that detects counterfeits and the denomination of the currency deposited. This acceptor can also act as a currency recycler that allows store employees to withdraw currency as required. Transactions are logged into a memory that includes the user account making the transaction.

The software program operating on the CPU includes a script computer program for scripting reports to print out either as an integrated portion of an accounting and or security computer program or as a separate module. A script is a simple program that the computer executes by interpreting the text source file. Script languages are designed for non professional individuals to build small casual programs. People without any advanced programming skills can easily learn a script language and write their own applications. After receipt of the safe customers can configure the computer program to design and generate desired report formats without a need for someone possessing computer language and developer skills to modify the computer software. These generated reports include transaction data recorded in the memory.

Referring to the external features of the computerized drop safe include eight coin tube deposit slots for depositing rolls or tubes of quarters dimes nickels and pennies. A tube may also contain paper currency for depositing using the tube and these tubes or rolls are stored in vertical columns in a motovend inside the safe that dispenses or vends tubes stored in the motovend to a drop pan . The drop pan is sound deadened to limit awareness of currency dispensing to people in the store when tubes are dispensed.

A touch sensitive liquid crystal display LCD is used to display information and input commands into a central processing unit CPU . There are three vault doors and on the computerized drop safe and access to each vault door is controlled by the CPU s computer program security protocols using solenoids in the door lock assemblies. Vault door secures the drop vault which includes a deposit slot where envelopes containing currency and checks or tubes of coins or currency can be deposited. Vault door secures a storage or courier vault that does not have a drop slot and is generally used to segregate reserve cash for replenishing the cash register or store receipts for courier pickup.

Vault door secures the bill acceptor and currency recycling equipment including cassettes for storing the cash currency. Two bill acceptors are included inside this vault and paper currency fed into the bill acceptors are deposited into the cassette located inside the vault. The bill acceptors include a denomination sensor or validator enabling the CPU to monitor the amount of currency deposited into the cassette. This can include a cash recycling function that can both dispense and receive cash.

The bill acceptors validators interface with the CPU to monitor currency deposited and update accounting information used by the CPU in the computer program. The distribution board also interfaces with a motovend to provide power over electrical connection . A motovend communication link connects the motovend to the CPU to control tube vending and access to tube storage columns. A connection from the motovend to the distribution board controls the electronic lock in bill acceptor vault door using communication connection to communication connection to unlock the vault door for access to that portion of the safe using the LCD CPU interface by controlling the electronic lock so that cash cassettes containing deposited cash can be removed. Likewise a connection from the motovend board to the distribution board connects to the storage vault door using communication link to communication link to control access to that portion of the safe using the LCD CPU interface to control an electronic lock in the door assembly. Similarly the distribution board and the motovend board is also connected to the drop safe vault door using communication link to communication link to control access to that portion of the safe using the LCD CPU interface to control an electronic lock in the door assembly. The LCD CPU interface also uses the communication link to the motovend board to control coin tube deposits and vends. The distribution board also supplies power to the motovend board using power connection .

The motovend board vends and accepts deposits by controlling four motors that connect to the motovend board . Motor connects to the motovend board by electrical connection motor connects to the motovend board by electrical connection motor connects to the motovend board by electrical connection and motor connects to the motovend board by electrical connection . Sensors also connect to the motovend board to provide data inputs to the CPU . Sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection and sensor is connected to the motovend board by communication connection . There is also an option for accessing the safes without using the LCD connection to the motovend board . A hardware identification signature corresponding to a physical item such as a data key or card can be used to provide a data input to the CPU and access the safe using a data key reader connected to the CPU by communication link .

The CPU also connects directly to a printer using interface . Using the printer store managers or employees can print various reports upon request or the computer program can automatically print reports such as end of shift accounting reports daily accounting reports courier currency pick up reports or receipts or diagnostic reports. The CPU also connects to a video camera using control interface . The security protocols of the program can be set to activate a video camera under specified circumstances such as receipt of a vending request vault door unlock command or unauthorized input or at a specific time such as end of shift or end of day.

CPU also has a control interface to a modem . This interface and modem provides a point to point dial up connection over the telephone system and can be used for remote control of the drop safe and to provide a point of sale POS interface to the computerized drop safe via. The CPU can be controlled using control interface from the modem to provide centralized accounting vending options and secure vault access options. Currency deposit information or other information stored on the CPU non volatile memory can be accessed using this POS modem connection and the modem can be used to provide secure remote and centralized control for dispensing currency from the currency cassettes vending coin tubes or unlocking vault doors if appropriate security measures are undertaken. This modem connection also permits remote access to the CPU to generate any of the available reports generated or parsed by the computer program make software updates to the computer program or access other data elements stored in the memory.

The CPU also has a control interface to an Ethernet connection and a control interface to a RS 485 serial port connection . The Ethernet connection and or RS 485 connection provides the option for a Local Area Network LAN that can perform back office applications and POS accounting and other control functions just as can be accomplished using the modem . The CPU can communicate transaction configuration or user information to the software application or accept such information onto the LAN. This information can include currency deposit information courier pickup information currency dispensing information and control vending coin tubes information or control or vault door control. Reports generated by the computer program can also be remotely requested and viewed and software updates to the computer program can be made. The same centralized monitoring and control options available using the modem connection can be implemented using the LAN.

Control interface connects CPU to bill acceptor and control interface connects CPU to bill acceptor . The bill acceptor and bill acceptor include a denomination sensor for sensing the denomination of the deposited bill and storing this information or updating the information in the CPU memory for accounting and tracking the amount of currency deposited in the cassette. The bill acceptors and can also include a currency recycler that can dispense currency out to the employee. Another feature of the CPU control over the acceptors and is to alternate operation so that currency deposits can be made alternating between the two acceptors. Normally there is a 1.5 second lag between bill deposits into a bill acceptor while the mechanism cycles the bill into the storage cassettes and resets to accept another bill input. By alternating between the two acceptors the rate of currency deposits is significantly increased.

There is also a control interface to the motovend to control coin tube deposits and vends. Coin tubes can be inserted into one or more of the eight slots for depositing rolls or tubes of quarters dimes nickels pennies or tubes of currency. These rolls and tubes are kept secured in the drop safe until a vending operation is required to replenish the cash register or to dispense for a courier pickup or management audit of contents. It can also be used to vend tubes of currency. The motovend is controlled by the CPU to vend tubes either from an employee input on the LCD or from a remote command over the modem or Ethernet interfaces. There is also a control interface connecting the drop vault lock assembly to the motovend . The motovend connects to the bill acceptor vault lock assembly using control interface and the motovend connects to the courier vault lock assembly using control interface . The electronic lock itself uses an electric solenoid to secure the vault door but any basic electro mechanical locking mechanism can be used to secure the vault doors. The security software application operating on the CPU controls when the vault doors can be opened using the control interface to the motovend .

In the preferred embodiment the doors cannot be opened by store employees using a key although if desired a key option can be used such as preferred for a courier pickup of vault contents. There is a data key reader connected to the CPU by communication link that permits an entry into the vaults using a physical key. The data key reader is used to provide a hardware identification signature capability for safe access based on a physical item such as a data key or magnetic strip imprinted data card.

The CPU of the computerized drop safe operates and controls the drop safe using a programmable software package. The software program of the computerized drop safe incorporates a number of features in the preferred embodiment. Referring to the computer software subroutines and or subprograms operating on the CPU support operational functions of the computerized drop safe. The CPU software operating on the computer offers retail businesses considerable flexibility to tailor their security protocols and procedures.

In the preferred embodiment the CPU software door control subroutine can control access to the three vault doors. The door control subroutine configuration generally only permits timed entry unlocking a door and allowing vault access after a ten minute delay although this delay feature can be eliminated or even extended. Vault access can be configured according to a series of logic rules controlling who can gain access to a given vault compartment. These rules include 

2 Can be opened immediately by a courier immediately with manager PIN immediately with any employee PIN or cannot be opened immediately by anyone.

Manager user accounts can be configured not to allow vault opening or to allow vault opening. Executive accounts can open any vault but must wait the required time. The doors can also be set to not open during a given period of the day or given period s of the week. The doors can also be set to have a shorter or longer wait than 10 minutes for earlier or later opening by selected user accounts.

As another security feature the door control subroutine restricts vault access to manager or executive hierarchy users that verify their identity via either a personal identification number PIN or hardware identification ID method at the safe location and then can request to open a vault door open. Another security enhancement available is an internal timer countdown embedded in the various policies that can lockout vault door access either because of unauthorized access attempt lack of manager permission or a control input. Once the internal countdown starts vault access cannot be obtained because of the lockout in effect. When the timer countdown is complete an indicator on the LCD screen shows countdown complete and door access now permitted. A manager or executive level user can then identify himself or herself to the CPU processor by an appropriate input at the safe location and request unlocking the vault door. The software then opens the vault door according to that command input to the safe at the safe location and the implemented software security protocol. Another possible security option is to implement a secure remote centralized door unlocking protocol using a modem or a LAN command input if appropriate security measures are undertaken. The door control subroutine can also control access using double login door control that requires two employees logging into the system at the safe location to open the safe.

The video control subroutine activates a digital video recorder linked to the computerized drop safe. If a specified event transpires the CPU software activates a digital video recorder to record the immediate vicinity around the safe and provide a video graphic record for review of the person or persons in the vicinity around the safe when the specific event occurred. The specified event can be any of several sensor inputs available such as a safe door opening a bill acceptor cassette removed a bill acceptor cassette dispensing a wrong or invalid PIN input a vending operation an employee data entry e.g. security alarm or some other option. The image of the person or persons responsible for creating the specified event should be captured by the video recorder. The digital video recorder will record the safe and the immediate vicinity for a specified period of time. The video recorder can also be tied into an alarm system.

The basic report generating module of the CPU software supports generation of several general types of reports 

1 Transaction Report The data inputs from the various safe components can be logged into the CPU memory as transaction such as a currency transactions e.g. currency deposit into the bill acceptor or a hardware transaction e.g. drop vault slot open . These logged transactions track safe functions and currency deposits and withdrawals and are used to audit machine usage. The software can print transactions by time by type or by user name.

2 Financial based Reports Several report formats are available and can break down usage by shift by specified time period and by business day. These various reports incorporate data from the transactions to generate reports for accounting and management review of actual receipts.

3 Setup Report Describes the configuration and security policies operating on the drop safe. The setup report shows how the safe is configured for control by the various hierarchal accounts.

Several basic representative reports are shown in that may be implemented using the software. shows an example of a Bill Acceptor Report . This transaction report is generated from the Insert Bills menu on the LCD after bills are inserted into the bill acceptor and a data input for done is made. The report includes a report identity and the user identity causing generation of the report. The time and date of report generation and the number denomination and total of the currency deposited . The Bill Acceptor Report list user inserting the bills number and denomination of the bills and total value of bills inserted in the transaction.

2 Acceptor Contents Prints amount of currency stored in the bill acceptor currency cassette prior to courier withdrawal.

3 Acceptor Emptied Logged when courier opens acceptor vault door to remove the currency cassette or a clear acceptor command is received by the CPU.

4 Acceptor Open Request Logged when the CPU receives an open request for the acceptor door that accesses the currency cassette storage.

7 Acceptor 2 Open Request Logged when the CPU receives an open request for the acceptor door but on a second acceptor vault if present that accesses the currency cassette storage.

8 Acceptor 2 Vault Close Logged when the bill acceptor door handle turns to lock by a user but on a second acceptor vault if present.

9 Acceptor 2 Vault Open Logged when the bill acceptor door handle turns to unlock by a user but on a second acceptor vault if present.

10 All Acceptor Types Prints all bill acceptor activity performed within the date range selected. This activity can include each bill deposit into the acceptor and each bill dispensed out of the acceptor tracked by denomination and user.

11 All Door Types Prints all door and drop chute activity performed within the date range selected. Examples of logged activity include a user accessing the drop chute the drop vault through the door or the storage vault door.

14 Beginning Balance Logged after an End of Day performed. Beginning balance is amount in the unit at time End of Day performed. Balances for following logged a total of all tubes b total drops by cash check other c total in drop vault by cash check other d total in storage vault by cash check other and e total in Bill Acceptors. Can also be logged after an End of Shift is performed.

16 Bill Acceptor Failed Logged when the bill acceptor reports an error condition to the CPU. Examples can include no denomination detected failure to feed into cassette cycling incomplete or no power.

19 Bill Acceptor Not Full Logged when successful bill load detected after a Bill Acceptor Full condition reported.

20 Bill Acceptor Recover Logged when the bill acceptor reports an operational condition after a Bill Acceptor Failed condition reported.

21 Bill Acceptor Unjammed Logged when a successful bill load is detected after a Bill Acceptor Jammed condition was reported.

22 Bookmark Logged whenever a bookmark is fed into a bill acceptor. Can be used to demarcate the bills deposited between one shift and the next end of day or some other significance.

23 Cassette Removed Logged when the cassette is removed from the bill acceptor and includes the total of the bills in the cassette.

24 Cassette Replaced Logged when the cassette is replaced in the bill acceptor after a Cassette Removed logged.

25 Cheat Detected Logged when the bill acceptor detects bill travel away from the cassette. This can include when the bill acceptor rejects a bill fed into the acceptor or when a bill is manually withdrawn by the clerk.

26 Clerk Tube Loaded Logged when a cashier loads tubes using the Load Tubes selection. The column loaded number of tubes loaded and total value of the tubes located is reported.

29 Column Config Logged when the values to the tubes are changed in the Cash Control Menu of the setup.

31 Courier Retrieval Logged when the courier tray or bill acceptor is emptied after the Courier opens the vault.

32 Dispensed Prints recycler transactions for the date range selected. Includes the denomination and number of the bills dispensed.

33 Door Whine When a door is left open for extended periods of time a warning is displayed on the LCD which prompts the Manager for a code entry to clear. This is logged by the CPU as a door whine.

35 Drop Chute Open Logged when the CPU detects the drop chute on the drop vault door pulled to open position.

37 Dump Column Logged when dumps are requested from the Cash Control Menu. Report lists user requesting the dump number of tubes in the column and the total value of the tubes.

39 File Reloaded Logged when a data set has been reloaded from a compact flash card. A compact flash card is a data memory storage device about the size of a matchbook or credit card. For this implementation compact flash would only be used during factory installation or during service replacement of the CPU and would be used to reload operating software of other data. The presence of a compact flash card reload at any other time may indicate a sophisticated attempt at fraud.

40 Main Vault Opened Prints the date time and by whom the Main Vault was opened within the date range selected.

41 Main Vault Close Prints the number of times the main vault was shut and locked within the date range selected.

42 Manager Tube Loaded Logged when the Manager loads tubes using the Load Tubes selection. Prints columns loaded number of tubes loaded and value of the tubes loaded and can be associated with the Manager name loading the tubes.

44 Notation A 16 character text note entered by the courier or manager at time of a pickup or deposit. Can be used to record a seal tracking number for a seal securing a container of store receipt pickups.

45 Policy Change Logged when changes are made to the Policy Setup. The logged user account making the changes is also recorded.

46 Program Starts Logged whenever the operating software on the CPU starts. If the CPU is restarting too often it may signify power failures caused by electrical faults and problems or attempted fraud.

48 Remote Code PIN Entered Logged whenever someone enters a remote PIN access code for remote access to the drop safe using the modem Ethernet or LCD access.

49 Remote Code Verified Logged whenever the safe verifies that the corresponding response to the override key code is correct.

50 Second Vault Close Logged when the CPU detects the handle of the storage vault turned to close position.

51 Second Vault Open Logged when the CPU detects the handle on the storage vault turned on the storage vault to unlock position.

52 Shift End Logged when an authorized user presses the shift end button. A shift is a subdivision of the business day and generally consists of three eight hour periods with specified start and stop times.

54 Too Many Bad PINs Logged when four consecutive incorrect PIN code entries are made. If seven incorrect PIN codes are entered the system locks the user out barring access until cleared.

55 Tube Adjustment Logged when the number of tubes is changed in the Cash Control Menu. The report will list which column was adjusted number of tubes added or subtracted and the total value of the tubes.

56 Tube Vend Logged when a tube vend process begins. Includes column number and tube value in cents dispensed by the motovend.

58 User Deleted Logged when an authorized manager deletes a clerk or when an executive user deletes any other account.

59 User Says Bad Vend Logged when the user selects Report Problem after vending a tube. Report will list the user name the column value of the tube and the reported problem.

60 Vault Move Logged whenever an Adjust Vault Contents or More Vault Contents are performed. Report will list user performing the transaction the amount of the transfer type of transfer and where transfer was moved to and from.

62 Vend Failed Logged when the CPU detects an error in the vending process e.g. defective sensor stripped gears etc. 

An example of a Current Content Report that can be implemented with the software is found in . This financial based report shows the current contents of the drop safe in each vault and the bill acceptors. The report includes the name of the report an identifier for the store the date the report was printed and the name of the user requesting the report. The amount of cash in the drop vault the amount in checks in the drop vault the amount in other in the drop vault and the total in the drop vault .

The storage or courier vault is broken down into two separate categories in this example. The current vault amounts represent stored cash on hand receipts segregated from receipts designated for courier pickup. The cash represent stored cash the check represents stored checks the other represents other receipts and the total represents the total value of the receipts stored in the vault. The courier amounts represent store receipts designated for courier pickup. Current courier tray cash represents cash receipts for courier pickup current courier tray check represents the check receipts for courier pickup current courier tray other represents the other receipts for courier pickup and the current courier tray total represents the total receipts for courier pickup.

The Column Contents tracks the tube count by columns of tubes in the motovend inside the safe. Each tube or roll is deposited through a tube slot into the motovend s storage columns. The report list each column the number of tubes in each column designated tube values and total value of the currency in each column .

The Bill Acceptor Contents lists the contents in each of the bill acceptors by denomination by each individual acceptor by total of each domination and by total value for each denomination . A data reporting row includes unrecognized currency deposited and all currency deposited . There is also an end of report indicator .

The tubes vend information is further broken down into vend details . This includes the number of tubes vended from each column and the number of tubes loaded . The bills acceptor is broken down into a record of the bills accepted . This includes the denominations the number of each denomination deposited the total value of the accepted currency and also a row for number of unrecognized bills deposited and for all bills deposited . The above information will be repeated for each user programmed into the CPU and cover each shift requested. There is an end of report indicator for the report end .

Column Contents tracks the tube count by columns of tubes in the motovend inside the safe. The report lists each column the number of tubes in each column designated tube values and total value of the currency in each column . The Bill Acceptor Contents lists the contents in each of the bill acceptors by denomination by each individual acceptor by total of each denomination and by total value for each denomination . A data reporting row includes unrecognized currency deposited and all currency deposited .

The Door Opens record shows the number of door openings by user within the reports time range. There is a column entry for clerk manager courier and unknown . The unknown entry cover vault door openings when no user is logged onto the system. Each row covers a separate opening into the safe and includes the main vault the drop chute the bill acceptor and the storage vault .

The Column Activity record summarizes tube transactions from the motovend. Each column in the motovend is identified in the column row . The entries for each column include normal vends clerk loads manager loads manager adjustments dumps no vends empty vends and wrong vends . There is also a column for all the columns and the total value of vends. Bill Acceptor Activity record summarizes all bills deposited into each bill acceptor by all users. There is a row for each denomination an entry for the number of each denomination deposited in each acceptor and the total number of bills deposited . There is also a row showing the number of bills deposited in each acceptor and the value of the currency deposited .

Finally there is a listing of drops and bill acceptors for each user . The listing has the user identifier a row for bills accepted cash drops check drops other drops and tubes vended . A column lists the number of transactions and the value of the transactions . There is an identifier for the end of the report .

Various vault door and vending time settings and protocols are listed. The COURIER SUBJECT TO LOCKOUT determines if the courier can open the vault when the Daily or Weekly lockouts are enabled. The DOOR DELAY specifies the length of the standard door opening delay shown in seconds e.g. 0000600 600 seconds 10 minutes . The WEEKLY LOCK ENABLED if enabled prevents door opening during time periods set in the Executive Policy. The DAILY LOC ENABLED if enabled prevents door opening during time periods set in the Executive Policy. DAILY  LOCK shows the programmed start time and duration of the lock down period. PROGRAMMABLE VEND ENABLED if enabled delays the time vending operations occur according to the Alternate Vend Interval value programmed in the Executive Policy. The ALT VEND list the Alternate Vend Interval in seconds e.g. 000030 30 seconds . If enabled the ALT DOOR ENABLED specified that the opening door time delay setting will follow the Alternate Door Delay time in the Executive Policy and if not enabled the door time delay follows the standard door opening time delay. ALT DOOR DELAY shows the vault door opening delay in seconds.

The Setup Report also displays peripheral information . STAM PORT is a communication port. BILL READER CON shows the configuration settings of the bill acceptors connected to the CPU. Users will stay logged on until the LOGOFF button is selected when SINGLE USER MODE is enabled. The IBUTTON PORT indicates where the Ibutton is connected if used. MOTOSLAVE PORT indicates where the safe s main printed circuit board is connected. The DEBUG PORT shows the location of the diagnostic port and is not used by the operator. LOGGER ENABLED is for internal use and not used by the operator.

Vault door settings are shown in the report . MAIN VAULT indicates who can open the main vault door. READER VAULT indicates who can open the bill acceptor vault and SECONDARY VAULT indicates who can open the door of the storage vault and if there is an opening delay time or instant opening. Printer information is also shown on the report . PRINTER indicates the printer type configuration. DROP RECEIPT specifies the number of receipts printed when a drop is performed. COURIER RECEIPT shows the number of receipts printed when the Bill Acceptor and Courier Tray are emptied after the Courier opens the vault. ACCEPTOR RECEIPT specifies the number of receipts printed when deposits are made into the Bill Acceptor. VAULT TERM sets the terminology to print on the reports.

Miscellaneous settings shows a number of miscellaneous information entries. LOTTERY PORT indicates the connection for a connected lottery terminal. STORE IDENTIFIER indicates the name used for the store location. SHIFT INACTIVE indicates if the automatic shift ending feature is active and the number of hours of inactivity required before activating a shift end transaction. ACCEPTOR SEAL indicates whether or not Bill Acceptors seals are being used. If enabled PIN LOCKOUT causes a ten minute lock down of the safe if seven incorrect PIN code entries are made. If enabled DVR ENABLED activates the digital video recorder control protocols. If disabled ACCEPTOR ESCROW sets a faster acceptance time for the bill acceptor but if a power failure occurs during insertion that bill may not be counted. An identifier for the end of the report is also present.

Other variations of this report are possible. Other information found in different report variations can include the name of the store and address communication configuration settings e.g. Media Access Control address MAC Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP Internet Protocol IP address etc . Alternate time specifications can be listed such as door delay vend delay or time of day options. A log level can be shown indicating how information is stored in the memory for various transactions. There can be an indication of the degree of control and monitoring available on a network connection such as point of sale or back office interfaces enabled or not. Current language settings operating on the safe can be shown in the report. Different settings can be shown for each vault such as whether the courier or clerk can open the vault door and whether a delay is active.

Specifications for the printer output can also be shown in the setup report including the serial port printing is directed toward and number of receipts to print for specified transactions such as when the courier visits when inserting bills or when performing vault moves or adjustments. Print options for automatically printing a end of day or end of shift report can be shown. Different settings for the bill acceptor can be reported such as whether a bill escrow function is active whether bookmarks are enabled so the acceptor can segregate currency by depositing non currency slips of paper into the cassette whether security protocols on the acceptor are active and whether cassette totals are automatically cleared for accounting. Courier key settings can be enabled and shown such as to clear totals and print receipts automatically. Whether a notation option is set can be shown. The number of registers can be shown and whether there is an association with a register e.g. associating a transaction with a register and print reports associated with that register .

Can print reports allows the manager to print reports from the CPU interface. Can load tubes allows the manager to load tubes into the safe. Can end business day allows the manager to clear the reports for the business day updating the internal memory and begin a new business day reporting period. Can end shift allows the manager to clear the reports for the shifts updating the internal memory and beginning a new shift reporting period. Language English United States shows the set language option for the manager. Can open storage door allows the manager access to the storage vault. Can change own PIN allows the manager to change his own PIN number. Can open main vault door gives the manager access control to the main vault door. Can open acceptor vault door gives the manager access control to the acceptor vault door securing the cassettes. Can activate alternate vend allows the manager to activate the alternate vending interval time instead of the standard two minute vend time delay. Can activate time of day vend interval permits the manager to activate this feature to vary the vending interval at specified times during the day. Can activate time of day or week lockout permits the manager to activate this feature to lockout the access to the safe at specified times.

Can dump tubes allows the manager to dispense all tubes trom a selected column e.g. a tube dump . Can adjust tube count allows the manager to add or subtract the number of tubes reported in a given column. Can move vault contents allows the manager to add remove or transfer the amounts currently in the vault from one vault to another logging the amount of the transfer e.g. moving drop vault deposits into storage vault . Can adjust vault drops allows the manager to adjust the value in the drop vault. Can adjust reserve main vault allows the manager to adjust the amount inside the reserve or storage vault. Can adjust courier tray allows the manager to adjust the value in the courier tray. Can edit add and delete clerk accounts permits the manager to modify the clerk account information and policies. Can NOT edit add and delete managers locks out the specified manager account from making any changes to manager level accounts. Can clear acceptor counts allows the manager to reset the number of bills and amounts reported in the bill acceptor to zero. Can NOT configure columns prevents the manager from making any changes to the column values and configuration. The end of the report is also identified .

Referring back to the report script module or integrated sub program operating on the CPU is an important innovative feature to the invention.

The computer within the safe understands an interpreted language that uses BASIC Beginners All purpose Symbolic Instructional Language as its core programming language. The script software is written in the BASIC language in the invention as the preferred embodiment but other languages may be the core and are within the scope of the invention. Some features of BASIC like Write are not supported. Numerous other features have been added that permit the script writer to access accounting and content information.

The report script uses Unicode as its data format and to print out the various reports that the program generates. Unicode uses two bytes to represent a single character of a language data set. Many documents generated by computer programs are written in ASCII which uses one byte to represent a single character. However ASCII is limited to a language with a character data set of no more than 256 characters such as English. Numerous languages use more than 256 characters such as That Japanese and Hebrew requiring Unicode format data to display the language. Report scripts are written on a personal computer using a Unicode text editor e.g. Microsoft Word and then imported to the CPU. The CPU later parses the report script to generate the report.

The script language in this report writing subprogram can be used by a customer after purchase and delivery of the computerized drop safe with minimal computer language skills and does not require any advanced computer language and developer skills to write customized reporting formats program instructions to generate customized report formats. That is a user can easily write the formatting script program without taking any specialized training or learning a computer language or code to write a program to generate the desired report formats. shows a flow diagram of the program s operation. The CPU begins start up in step . In step the CPU searches for files in its permanent memory storage that have a b suffix. These b suffix files are report scripts. In step the CPU briefly examines the files to determine the file name and print time that is when the file should be printed. Time designations include 1 printed on courier visit 2 on end of shift 3 on end of day or 3 when requested from the Report screen.

In step the script is invoked or run and the computer reads the script file and parses the contents into BASIC instructions. If the parsing fails as is common during script development an error message is briefly displayed describing the problem and where within the file the problem was encountered. Note that the entire file is parsed so the developer is assured that once a script parses without error it will always parse without error afterwards. If the script program successfully parses the file contents a stream of Unicode characters formatted into the generated report will appear. The report will contain the name of the report when it was printed and by whom.

Every valid script contains four features at the beginning of the script file called headers that are commented out with the symbol. There are also four optional features BY USER CLERK PRINT LAST INTERVAL and INCLUDE. Headers can include the following 

1 SCRIPT NAME This is the name that will be printed at the top of the report. For reports printed from the Report screen this is also the text displayed in the button on the LCD for that report.

2 REPORT TYPE This indicates when the report should be printed. Options contained in the script that can be specified in this script are as follows 

3 INTERVAL This indicates how the CPU should gather data for including in the report stored in its memory. Options available in the script include 

a BY BUSINESS DAY Used if the report contains data for a given business day. If this is a SCREEN report a dialog input allows the user to select the business day.

b BY BUSINESS DAY WITH SHIFTS Used if the report contains data for a given business day and shift. If this is a SCREEN report a dialog input will allow the user to select which business day and shift. A report script with this option is best suited for generating or reprinting a shift report.

c BY PICKUP Used when the report contains information for a period of time demarcated by courier pickups. Typically the report interval will be business days.

FAMILY This header can segregate groups of reports into families . For example a customer may wish to have two different sets of reports depending upon the type of back office software they have. The manager or executive can select from the policy screen which family of reports to use.

BY USER This SCREEN only option allows the operator to select whether to run the report on all users or on a specific user.

CLERK PRINT This option indicates that clerks can print this report from their report screen. It is only applicable to SCREEN report types.

7 LAST INTERVAL This SCREEN only option specifies that the last interval should be used for the report. This means that the safe will not present a screen for the user to select which interval courier pickup business day or shift . Instead the report script generator uses the interval from the last courier pickup end of day or end of shift to the current time. This option cannot be used with INTERVAL CURRENT.

8 INCLUDE This option is always followed by the name of another script file. The text inside of the named file is included verbatim in this script. This option is used to make common functions accessible by several scripts.

There are additional commands found in the script program. These commands used are case insensitive and are recognized regardless of the case used for these keywords. Some of the commands can take multiple parameters and are separated by commas. The commands are shown below in Table 1.

For the FORMAT command the first type which appears either normal or bold as keyword parameters indicate if the text that follows should be printed in boldface or normal ink. The second type which accepts two parameters indicates how numbers should be formatted. c indicates that numbers should be regarded as cents and printed in the form appropriate for the country that the safe is located e.g. 4.56 in the US or 4 56 in Germany . n indicates that numbers should be regarded as cents but suppresses any currency symbols e.g. 4.56 . n indicates that numbers are expected to be whole dollars or Euros etc. and that decimals should be suppressed e.g. 400 prints as 4 . i indicates that numbers are whole and that decimals should be suppressed e.g. 456 prints as 456 . The IDENT command prints all following lines indented by a number of spaces equal to the precision.

Using the MOVE command if VALUE is specified it returns the value in cents of money moved from the specified location to the specified location. If COUNT is specified it returns the number of movements from the specified location to the specified location. POSADJUST e.g. Positive adjustment corrections that increase the value of the drop reserve or courier tray can only appear in the From parameter and not in the To parameter. DROPOFF e.g. funds left by the courier can only appear in the From parameter. This parameter is a special case and is also subsumed into the Move Outside Reserve Cash value. TUBELOAD e.g. funds used to load the tubes an only appear in the To parameter. This is also a special case subsumed into the Move Reserve Outside Cash value. NEGADJUST e.g. negative adjustment corrections that decrease the value of the drop reserve or courier tray can only appear in the To parameters not the From parameter. In the first example given in the table MOVE Outside Drop All Value the value in cents is returned for all manual vault drops. In the second example MOVE Reserve Negadjust Check Count retrieves the number of negative adjustments performed on checks within the reserve.

The MOVE INTERVAL command works like MOVE but is used to determine movement within a specified interval. Note that a variable can be used to specify the interval making this command usable within a while loop. The example Move interval Outside Drop Checks Value 0 retrieves the value in cents of all checks dropped in the first shift. The MOVE PERSON also works like MOVE but this command is used to determine movement by a specific person. A variable can be used to specify the person making this command usable within a while loop. In the example Move Person Outside All Other Value 1287 will return the value in cents of all non cash non check money that the person specified by the person identifier 1287 moved from the outside to any other place in the safe.

This command MOVE INTERVAL PERSON works like MOVE but is used to determine movement by a specific person within an interval such as the third person in the second shift. Note that a variable can be used to specify the person making this command usable within a while loop. In the example Move Interval Person Drop Ctray All Value 4 1287 returns the value in cents of all money moved from the drop to the courier tray by the person specified by 1287 within the last four shifts.

The CONTENT command returns the value in cents of the specified currency type that is currently in the drop safe at the specified location. In the example CONTENT DROP CHECK the value of the checks in the drop vault is returned. The BALANCE command returns the value in cents of the specified currency type that was in the safe at the specified location at the start of the time period covered by the report. The example BALANCE RESERVE CASH returns the value of the cash in the storage vault.

The ACCEPTOR command vanes widely depending upon the parameters. ACCEPTOR Value returns the value in cents of all bill acceptor deposits in the time period covered by the report. ACCEPTOR Current returns the value in cents of the total bill acceptor contents ACCEPTOR Start returns the value in cents of the total bill acceptor contents at the start of the time period covered by the report. ACCEPTOR Withdraw returns the value in cents of all bill acceptor withdrawals in the time period covered by the report. ACCEPTOR Fancy Current returns a textual description of the current contents of the bill acceptors. ACCEPTOR Fancy Value returns a textual description of all bill acceptor deposits in the time period covered by the report. If the report is for MANAGER PICKUP then only acceptor transactions associated with the vault serviced by the manager will be considered for the ACCEPTOR function.

The ACCEPTOR INTERVAL command also varies depending upon the parameter. If the optional parameter Fancy is present then the return value is text describing all bill acceptor deposits during the specified interval. If the optional parameter Count is present then the return value is the number of bills accepted during the specified interval. If the optional parameter is not present then the return value is the cent amount of all bill acceptor deposits during the specified interval.

For the ACCEPTOR PERSON command if the optional parameter Fancy is present then the retrieved value is text describing all bill acceptor deposits by the specified person. If the optional parameter Count is present then the retrieved value is the number of bills accepted by the specified person during the time period of the report. If the optional parameters are not present the retrieved value in cents is all bill acceptor deposits by the specified person during the specified interval.

For the ACCEPTOR PERSON INTERVAL command if the optional parameter Fancy is present then the return value is text describing all bill acceptor deposits during the specified interval for the specified person. If the optional parameter Count is present then the return value is the number of bills accepted by the specified person during the specified interval. If no optional parameter is present the command returns the value in cents of all bill acceptor deposits by the specified person during the specified interval.

The TIME command returns a string representing the start or stop of the time period covered by the report formatted to local time standards. TIME INTERVAL returns a string representing the start or stop of the time period specified by the interval formatted to local standards.

The TUBE command retrieves significantly different values based upon its parameters. TUBE FANCY CURRENT returns a textual description of all tubes currently in the safe in tabular format. The table does not have headers so it is up to the script author to use the print or printin BASIC statement to generate and print the headers. The table has four vertical entries or columns. The first entry is the column number 1 2 3 4 etc. . The second entry is the number of tubes held in that column of the motovend. The third entry is the value of a single tube within the column in cents. The fourth entry is for the value of all tubes within the column in cents. TUBE FANCY STOP returns a textual description of all tube contents at the end of the report period. TUBE FANCY ALL returns a textual description of all tube activity during the time period covered by the report.

The parameter TUBE T VEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tubes vended in the report period. The parameter TUBE T FAIL returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube vend failures during the report period. The parameter TUBE T CLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all clerk tube loads in the report period. The parameter TUBE T MLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all manager tube loads during the report period. The parameter TUBE T DUMP returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube dumps during the report period.

The parameter TUBE T POSADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all positive adjusts during the report period. The parameter TUBE T NEGADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all negative adjusts during the report period. The parameter TUBE T NOVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all no vend incidents during the report period. The parameter TUBE T EMVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all empty vend incidents during the report period. The parameter TUBE T WRVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all wrong vend incidents during the report period.

TUBE CURRENT returns the value in cents of all tubes currently in the motovend. TUBE START returns the value in cents of all tubes in the safe at the start of the time period covered by the report.

The TUBE INTERVAL command is similar in operation to the TUBE command and retrieves significantly different values based upon its parameters. TUBE INTERVAL 3 FANCY returns a textual description of all tube activity during the specified interval e.g. 3 shifts and this type does not require the COUNT VALUE activity type parameters. The information will be in tabular format showing four vertical entries or columns. The first entry is the column number 1 2 3 4 etc. . The second entry is the number of tubes held in that column of the motovend. The third entry is the value of a single tube within the column in cents. The fourth entry is for the value of all tubes within the column in cents.

The parameter TUBE T VEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tubes vended in the specified interval. The parameter TUBE T FAIL returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube vend failures during the interval. The parameter TUBE T CLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all clerk tube loads in the interval. The parameter TUBE T MLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all manager tube loads during the interval. The parameter TUBE T DUMP returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube dumps during the interval.

The parameter TUBE T POSADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all positive adjusts during the interval. The parameter TUBE T NEGADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all negative adjusts during the interval. The parameter TUBE T NOVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all no vend incidents during the interval. The parameter TUBE T EMVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all empty vend incidents during the interval. The parameter TUBE T WRVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all wrong vend incidents during the interval. The parameter COUNT and VALUE specify whether the information displayed is by count of tubes or value of the tubes.

The TUBE PERSON command also operates similarly to the TUBE command to retrieve tube vending activity by person. The TUBE PERSON 1287 FANCY command returns a textual description of all tube activity performed by the person specified by 1287. TUBE PERSON 1287 VALUE returns a 1 if the person performed any tube activity 0 otherwise.

The parameter TUBE T VEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tubes vended by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T FAIL returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube vend failures by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T CLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all clerk tube loads by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T MLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all manager tube loads by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T DUMP returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube dumps by the specified person during the report period.

The parameter TUBE T POSADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all positive adjusts by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T NEGADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all negative adjusts by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T NOVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all no vend mcidents by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T EMVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all empty vend incidents by the specified person during the report period. The parameter TUBE T WRVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all wrong vend incidents by the specified person during the report period.

The TUBE INTERVAL PERSON operates similarly to the TUBE command to retrieve tube vending activity by interval and person. The TUBE INTERVAL PERSON 3 1287 FANCY command returns a textual description of all tube activity performed by the person specified by 1287 during the interval specified by 3 e.g. 3 shifts . TUBE INTERVAL PERSON 3 1287 VALUE returns a 1 if the person performed any tube activity in the interval 0 otherwise.

The parameter TUBE T VEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tubes vended by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T FAIL returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube vend failures by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T CLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all clerk tube loads by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T MLOAD returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all manager tube loads by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T DUMP returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all tube dumps by the specified person during the interval.

The parameter TUBE T POSADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all positive adjusts by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T NEGADJ returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all negative adjusts by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T NOVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all no vend incidents by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T EMVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all empty vend incidents by the specified person during the interval. The parameter TUBE T WRVEND returns the count or value in cents depending upon activity type of all wrong vend incidents by the specified person during the interval.

For the NUMBER OF command if INTERVAL is the first parameter this function returns the number of intervals in the report days or shifts . If PERSON is the first parameter this function returns the number of people performing actions during the report period. If PERSON is the first parameter and another parameter follows the second parameter is interpreted as an interval number and the number of people performing actions within the specified interval is returned.

The BOUNDED command is used on business day reports and indicates if the report s period was bracketed at the beginning or end by an end of day marker. The optional form indicates if a given interval was complete at either the start or stop of the interval. For example a report generated on an unclosed shift i.e. the current shift will compute BOUNDED START to be true and BOUNDED STOP to be false.

The PERSON NAME function returns the name of the person referred to by the parameter. For the example PERSON NAME 1287 the name of the employ specified by the numeric value of 1287 is retrieved. The INTERVAL OF INTEREST command is useful only for a single shift within a business day report. It is used to determine which shift interval the report should be acting on. The PROGRESS function will display the script s progress on the screen as it is executed by using this function. For the NOTATION command if COUNT is the first parameter then this function returns the number of notations made by the safe within the time period of the report. Otherwise the function returns the text of the notation specified by the index.

Each of the previously described reports can be generated using the report script generating program. Other example reports are shown in . shows an example for a Courier Withdrawal transaction report showing the amount of currency picked up by a courier and breaks the receipts down by category. The report includes the name of the report an identifier for the store the print date of the report the courier s manager s or other user s name identifier printing the report the date range of receipts in the pickup total value of the pickup amount of cash in the courier tray the value of the checks in the courier tray the contents of the bill acceptor e.g. Bill Acceptor Counts broken down by denomination to list number of bills in each acceptor total number in each bill acceptor and total value in each . The collective totals number of each denomination are listed in another entry column and the total value for each denomination is also shown . There is also a total bill count and a total currency value .

Receipts are further broken down by business day . There is a partial day entry at with receipts for the day listed. Acceptor cash lists the cash in the bill acceptor for the time period. Courier tray cash deposits shows the amount of cash deposited in the courier tray. Courier tray check deposits shows the amount of cash deposited in the courier tray. The total deposits is also shown. There is a complete business day listing at that is also broken down to show acceptor cash courier tray cash deposits courier tray check deposits and total deposit value . Other business day listings are shown at and . Partial day listing shows the amount of deposits as or the courier pickup. The previous partial day listing marks the time of the previous courier pickup. There is also an end of courier report entry. This report can be used as a receipt from the store to a courier detailing the receipts picked up by a courier.

The Current Content Report in shows the current contents of the drop safe in each vault and the bill acceptors. The report includes the name of the report an identifier for the store the date the report was printed and the name of the user requesting the report. The current amount of cash in the drop vault is shown at broken down by cash by check and total . The current amount in the storage or reserve vault e.g. Current Reserve Change Fund is shown at 2409 broken down by cash by check and total . The amount in the courier tray is shown at broken down by cash by check and total .

The amount of currency in the motovend column is shown as Column Content . Each column is listed with the tube count of each column the designated value of each tube and the total value of the currency in each column . There is also an entry line for total tube count and value . The current content of the bill acceptors is also shown as Bill Acceptor Contents . The contents by denomination for acceptor and acceptor is shown with the number of each bill denomination listed. The total number of each denomination is listed with the total value for each denomination also listed. The total bill count for each acceptor is also shown and the total value for each acceptor listed. There is also an entry for the total number of bills in both acceptors and the total value of the bills contained . There is also an entry for any unrecognized bills deposited and an end of the report .

The report is broken down by shifts and there is a shift identifier and the date and time range covered by the shift the name of the clerk cashier making the listed transactions the number and value of tubes loaded the number and value of tubes vended the number and value of bills fed into the acceptor the number and value of vault drops e.g. none were made for this user drop withdrawals adjusted reserve withdrawals adjusted and courier tray deposits adjusted .

The tubes vend information is further broken down into vend details . This includes the number of tube vends from each column and total value and the number of manager tube loads for each column and total value . The bills acceptor is broken down into a record of the bills accepted . This includes the denominations of the bills the number of each denomination deposited and the total value of the deposited currency . There is also a row for the number of unrecognized bills deposited and for all bills deposited . There is an entry for the total value of the bills deposited .

There is also an entry for a courier visit . There is a data entry for tubes loaded for tubes vended for bills accepted for vault drops e.g. none in this example and courier tray withdraw adjust . There is also an entry for tube activity details and bills accepted in the bill acceptor . The information given above is also provided for a second clerk Elaine . There is a data entry for the total deposit for shift showing the total amount deposited into the safe the total number of bills accepted and vault drops e.g. no vault drops in the example .

Each shift for each clerk logged into the system is listed on the report. For shift there is a listing for Ben Elaine and Les . There is also a summary for shift . There is also a summary for all shifts showing the total deposits all shifts the total count and value of bills deposited in the bill acceptor and vault drops . There is also and end of shift report entry .

Deposits shows deposits made into the safe during the time period reported and includes number of tubes and value loaded by the clerk number of tubes and value loaded by the manager positive adjustments by the manager for tubes cash drops check drops other drops storage main vault deposits courier tray deposits and bill acceptors . Withdrawals show the withdrawals made from the safe during the time period reported cind includes the number and value of the tubes vended the number and value of tubes dumped negative adjustments by the manager for tubes drop vault withdrawals storage main vault withdrawals courier tray withdrawals and bill acceptor withdrawals .

Column Activity tracks the motovend activity by tube column. The first line entry is the number of vends from each column the total number of vends and value of the vends. The second line entry is for the number of failures in each column the total number of failures and the value. The third line entry is for the number of clerk tube loads into each column the total number of clerk tube loads and the value. The fourth line entry is for the number of positive adjustments for each column the total adjustments and the value. The ftfth line entry is the number of negative adjustments for each column the total adjustments and the value. The sixth line entry is the number of no vends recorded for each column the total no vends logged and the total value. The seventh line entry is the number of empty vends logged for each column the total number of empty vends and the total value. The eighth entry line is the number of wrong vends for each column the total number of wrong vends and the value.

The Bill Acceptor Activity lists the contents in each of the bill acceptors. The first line entry is the number of 1 bills in each bill acceptor the total number and total value. The second line entry is for the number 2 bills in each acceptor the total number of bills and the value. The second line entry is for the number 2 bills in each acceptor the total number of bills and the value. The third line entry is for the number 5 bills in each acceptor the total number of bills and the value. The fourth line entry is for the number 10 bills in each acceptor the total number of bills and the value. The fifth line entry is for the number 20 bills in each acceptor the total number of bills and the value. The sixth line entry is for the number of 50 bills in each acceptor the total number of bills and the value. The seventh line entry is for the number of 100 bills in each acceptor the total number of bills and the value. The eighth line entry is for the number of unrecognized bills in each acceptor. The ninth entry line is for the total number of bills in each acceptor and the value. And the tenth line is the value of bills in each acceptor and the total value.

There are also entries for the each of the clerks. Data entries for Ben show the number of bills accepted in the bill acceptor the number of bills accepted and the number of tubes loaded . Data entries for Elaine show the number of bills accepted in the bill acceptor the number of bills accepted and the number of tubes loaded . Data entries for Les show the number of bills accepted in the bill acceptor the number of bills accepted and the number of tubes loaded . There is an identifier for the end of the report .

The shift identifier identifies the shift and includes the date and time range covered by the shift. There is an entry for each clerk. The first entry is name of the clerk cashier making the listed transactions. The number and value of tubes loaded the number and value of tubes vended the number and value of bills fed into the bill acceptor the number and value of vault drops e.g. none were made for this user drop withdrawals adjusted reserve withdrawals adjusted and courier tray deposits adjusted .

The tubes vend information is further broken down into vend details . This includes the number of tube vends from each column and total value and the number of manager tube loads for each column and value . The bills acceptor is broken down into a record of the bills accepted . This includes the denominations of the bills the number of each denomination deposited and the total value of the deposited currency . There is also a row for the number of unrecognized bills deposited and for all bills deposited . There is an entry for the total value of the bills deposited .

There is also an entry for a courier visit . There is a data entry for tubes loaded for tubes vended for bills accepted for vault drops e.g. none in this example and courier tray withdraw adjust . There is also an entry for tube activity details and bills accepted in the bill acceptor . The information given above is also provided for a second clerk Elaine . There is a data entry for the total deposit for the shift showing the total amount deposited into the safe the total number of bills accepted and vault drops e.g. no vault drops in the example . There is an end of report indicator .

Referring back to the next function controlled by the CPU operating software is vending control . The CPU controls the motovend vending mechanism. The vending or dispensing of tubes e.g. coin rolls is controlled according to a series of rules. Tubes can be dispensed with no interval if the main vault door is open a.k.a. dumping . Typically the interval between two vends is no less than 2 minutes but the software supports an Alternate Vend Time which can shorten or lengthen the interval. There is also a Time of Day Vend option that associates a different vend interval with a time period. For example rush hour can be set with a shorter vend interval while after 10 PM can be set with a longer vend interval. Also each user account can be set with a vend limit so that if a given tube s value contents exceed the user s vend limit that user cannot vend that tube.

The next CPU software feature is the LCD e.g. liquid crystal display . The CPU and thus the drop safe is controlled through a LCD touch sensitive screen. The software creates a series of hierarchical screens with labeled buttons on the LCD . Buttons of a similar nature e.g. Cancel Save etc. are always placed in the same position to make operation more intuitive. The buttons are also made as large as possible to reduce the chances of pressing the incorrect button. Users press these buttons on the LCD to make control and data inputs into the CPU software controlling the computerized drop safe.

The next feature of the operating CPU software on the CPU is hardware configuration . Upon initial startup the drop safe CPU reads a configuration file indicating what sort of bill acceptors printers and network interfaces are present. The CPU then initializes the software subroutines necessary to communicate and control those devices. The configuration file s contents can be manipulated by a user with executive level hierarchy authorization.

User hierarchies is another feature of the safe s CPU software . There are four hierarchy types of users with different control privileges executive manager clerk and courier. Executives have all privileges except for instant door opening. Managers have fewer privileges and abilities. Clerks have fewer still. Couriers have no privileges or abilities except the ability to instantly open vault doors. This hierarchical organization can be configured so as to bestow different activity authorizations for the various user types. As an example these different authorizations options for clerks and managers include the following 

Every user account has a unique name which generally should be based on the user s name. Executives can add and delete any other account type. Executives can only modify their own account while managers can add or delete clerk or manager accounts if so permitted. Clerks and courier cannot add other user accounts. Couriers may be limited to accessing the safe using a hardware identification signature such as a data access key or access card.

A very important feature of the CPU software accounting and security protocols is the CPU s stored transaction records . Every action involving money or security creates a transaction record in a data file in memory of the CPU. Transaction files can only be destroyed by importing files from another safe. Almost every transaction record is associated with a user making employee manipulations very difficult. The transaction files are used to audit the contents and transactions of the safe and generate financial or security reports.

Current counts is another feature of the CPU operating software. The CPU software maintains a current counts record constantly updated in the memory. This data record contains the current currency check and other receipts inside the drop safe. This data record is constantly updated with transactions changing the current currency check and other receipts in the drop safe s vaults the current tube counts and the current bill acceptor contents. Current contents of the different component currency storage areas of the drop safe are maintained for each vault. Each of the two vaults contents are tracked by currency type e.g. cash check and other and value of each. The motovend tube assembly contents are tracked by column count and value in each column. And the bill acceptor contents are tracked by denomination count and value. These files are constantly updated and tracked for each transaction and can be remotely accessed by either the modem or Ethernet connection.

Another security and accounting tool is the user identification subroutine. Every executive manager and clerk account possesses a name associated with a unique PIN number. Most transactions involve a user making a positive identification to perform the transaction using the LCD and entering their name and unique PIN number to log into the system to make a currency or other transaction. Couriers generally do not have user names and PIN numbers accounts but couriers can be assigned a hardware identification signature . This signature corresponds to a physical item such as a data key or card. The computerized drop safe has an installed electronic device or data key reader that validates the physical item to verify access to the safe. An advantage of using a hardware identification signature data key is the ability to use a programmable memory in the data key that can have transaction information copied e.g. the Courier Report for transportation back to the courier s office for receipting currency pickup.

The ability of the CPU software to integrate with remote control and monitoring using a Point Of Sale Interface is another important feature. The architecture of the CPU software includes a point of sale POS interface to connect with the drop safe via the Ethernet and or the modem and the CPU can be accessed by this interface to perform tube vends accept bills load tubes record vault drops or securely access vault doors if the appropriate security measures are undertaken. Currency deposit information or other information stored on the CPU may also be accessed using this POS interface and allow real time unscheduled transaction audits as another security enhancements.

There is also a back office interface to the CPU software . The architecture of the software allows a back office application to connect to the CPU via either serial or Ethernet connection that is independent from the POS interface and allows similar capabilities under appropriate security measures. The CPU can supply transaction configuration or user information to the application or accept such information using the application. This information can also include currency deposit information and the data can be available using the POS and the back office interfaces.

The CPU software also offers superior flexibility through the language subroutines and data files. If supplied with the appropriate translation file the software can be localized to a given country and dialect within that country through the use of language files. Localization will set all text on the screen to be displayed in the host country s language and a separate language setting sets the currency currency formatting date and time formats to match the host country. Any non executive account can also be set to use a translation file. For example for a Hispanic employee the computerized drop safe can be set to display its screens in Spanish when that particular user logs in.

At startup the software searches the file system for language files. Every language file contains a number indicating what region and dialect the file is for and a series of numbers the key and strings the desired text . The computerized drop safe also has a location language that dictates what currency date and time format to use. The computerized drop safe also maintains a user language that corresponds to the current user s preferred language so individual users can have the display operate in their native or preferred language. The software has a mapping of English strings and numbers such that each number corresponds with a given English string. Whenever the interface needs to display text it uses another piece of software that uses a hash lookup to find the desired string.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with respect to preferred embodiments it will be readily understood that minor changes in the details of the invention may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention.

