---

title: Structure for differential eFUSE sensing without reference fuses
abstract: A design structure comprising a differential fuse sensing system, which includes a fuse leg configured for introducing a sense current through an electrically programmable fuse (eFUSE) to be sensed, and a differential sense amplifier having a first input node coupled to the fuse leg and a second node coupled to a reference voltage. The fuse leg further includes a current supply device controlled by a variable reference current generator configured to generate an output signal therefrom such that the voltage on the first input node of the sense amplifier is equal to the voltage on the second input node of the sense amplifier whenever the resistance value of the eFUSE is equal to the resistance value of a programmable variable resistance device included within the variable reference current generator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07688654&OS=07688654&RS=07688654
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07688654
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070628
---
This non provisional U.S. patent application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 427 849 which was filed Jun. 30 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 477 555 and is assigned to the present assignee.

IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. U.S.A. Other names used herein may be registered trademarks trademarks or product names of International Business Machines Corporation or other companies.

This invention relates to semiconductor devices and particularly to a design structure which enables a differential eFUSE Electrically Programmable Fuse sense without the use of a reference fuse s .

Electrically Programmable Fuses eFUSEs are widely used to implement memory redundancy functionality in dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM and embedded memory devices. Passing a sufficient current through an eFUSE structure typically programs the eFUSE such that its resistance is significantly altered from its initially fabricated state. In order to determine whether a particular fuse has been programmed or not a sense circuit may be used to detect one of two possible states of the fuse. More specifically the sense circuit holds one of two latched values therein which is determined by a comparison between a voltage developed by the sense circuit across the fuse and a reference voltage generated within the sense circuit. The reference voltage is designed to be between a fuse voltage corresponding to the programmed state and a fuse voltage corresponding to an unprogrammed state. However eFUSEs with small changes in resistivity between programmed and unprogrammed states are difficult to sense reliably with a single ended fuse latch.

Instead a fuse sense device with higher gain and better discrimination is desirable to sense changes in resistance of a few hundred ohms. Conventional solutions have been proposed which use a first fuse or resistive element as a reference device to which a fuse undergoing sensing is compared. This approach is operable but requires two fuses per bit which reduces fuse bay density. Additionally it is required to test for a fuse blow margin and a conventional two fuse sensing system does not provide a means for margin testing. Two element fuse sense systems have been proposed for the CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor technology but do not have margin test capabilities.

Considering the limitations of the above mentioned methods it is clear that there is a need for a method for detecting a state of an electronic fuse that does not utilize a two fuse sensing system.

The shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through a design structure for differential fuse sensing system. In an exemplary embodiment the design structure includes a fuse leg configured for introducing a sense current through an electrically programmable fuse eFUSE to be sensed and a differential sense amplifier having a first input node coupled to the fuse leg and a second node coupled to a reference voltage. The fuse leg further includes a current supply device controlled by a variable reference current generator configured to generate an output signal therefrom such that the voltage on the first input node of the sense amplifier is equal to the voltage on the second input node of the sense amplifier whenever the resistance value of the eFUSE is equal to the resistance value of a programmable variable resistance device included within the variable reference current generator.

In another embodiment a differential fuse sensing design structure includes a fuse leg configured for introducing a sense current through an electrically programmable fuse eFUSE to be sensed and a differential sense amplifier having a first input node coupled to the fuse leg a second node coupled to a reference voltage and a pair of ballast capacitors coupled to the first and second input nodes. The fuse leg further includes a current supply device controlled by a variable reference current generator configured to generate an output signal therefrom such that the voltage on the first input node of the sense amplifier is equal to the voltage on the second input node of the sense amplifier whenever the resistance value of the eFUSE is equal to the resistance value of a programmable variable resistance device included within the variable reference current generator. The variable reference current generator further includes a differential amplifier having the reference voltage as an inverting input thereto a mimic circuit configured to mimic devices of the fuse leg wherein an internal node of the mimic circuit is coupled to a non inverting input of the differential amplifier and a digitally controlled variable resistance device a resistance portion of which is configured within the mimic circuit wherein an output of the differential amplifier corresponds to the output signal used to control the current supply device of the fuse leg.

In still another embodiment a method for differential sensing of an electrically programmable fuse eFUSE includes configuring a fuse leg including the eFUSE to be sensed and coupling a first input node of a differential sense amplifier to the fuse leg and a second node of the differential sense amplifier to a reference voltage. A variable reference current generator is configured to generate an output signal therefrom that controls a current supply device within the fuse leg the output signal generated in a manner such that the voltage on the first input node of the sense amplifier is equal to the voltage on the second input node of the sense amplifier whenever the resistance value of the eFUSE is equal to the resistance value of a programmable variable resistance device included within the variable reference current generator.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with advantages and features refer to the description and the drawings.

As a result of the summarized invention a solution is technically achieved that provides for a method for detecting a state of an electronic fuse that uses an adjustable reference current and a reference voltage.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments is to provide a means for differential sensing of an eFUSE element. Another aspect of the exemplary embodiments is a method for detecting a state of an electronic fuse that uses an adjustable reference current and a reference voltage. Still another aspect is to provide a differential fuse latch device with a means for fuse resistance margin testing.

A differential sensing and margin testing fuse latch and control circuit is used as a dense and accurate means to detect the state of an electronic fuse. The exemplary embodiments of the present invention do not use a reference fuse but rather an adjustable reference current and a reference voltage. By providing such configuration density is improved by elimination of a reference resistor for sensing of an electronic fuse. Margin testing is possible by adjustment of the reference current. The accuracy of resistance measurement is on the order of about 100 ohms. Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described in detail hereinafter with reference to .

The detailed description includes several terms described herein as follows. VXGEN refers to a calibrated adjustable reference current generator that outputs VX a signal that is used to control the fuse sense trip point. In other words VXGEN is a circuit providing a current reference for a fuse sensing circuit which is also referred to herein as the bit cell. The level of VX is responsive to the setting of a digitally controlled variable reference resistor. This resistive reference sets the threshold point or trip point of the fuse sensing circuit. Fuses measuring above this resistance are sensed as open i.e. programmed or blown . The digitally controlled reference resistance circuit includes various selectable resistors used to generate a reference resistance to which the fuses are compared.

 VREFX refers to a fixed reference voltage used by the differential sense amp SA circuit to read or evaluate the fuse state. In an exemplary embodiment VREFX is generated by a circuit such as a resistor divider for example which provides a voltage reference used by the sense amp in the bit cell. A pair of ballast capacitors are attached between the differential sense nodes of the sense amp and ground. The use of ballast capacitors increases the charge to be differentially sensed and facilitates more reliable sensing.

A blow FET is an FET device used to direct a programming current through an eFUSE. When a blow FET is enabled it permits a high voltage from input FSOURCE to develop a programming current through the selected eFUSE. The programming current is of a magnitude sufficient to cause structural changes within the eFUSE which result in a change in resistance. Specifically fuses start out in the intact or zero state. To change the fuse to a one state opposite state the fuse is blown or programmed. The device that programs the fuse is referred to as the blow FET or a programming device. In an exemplary embodiment this device is an NFET device N type Field Effect Transistor Metal Oxide Semiconductor . A programmed fuse has its electrical resistance increase over its initial unprogrammed resistance.

As used herein AOI stands for And Or Invert and is a common logical operation in circuit design. It ANDs inputs then ORs that result with other inputs and then inverts the result of the OR operation. Mimic refers to a duplicate or dummy copy of a circuit element. The duplicate or replica is used to obtain information about the other copies of the circuit. In the exemplary embodiments of the present invention a copy of the current path from power supply Vdd through the fuse to ground is provided using a mimic structure within the VXGEN circuit.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram illustrating one example of a design structure for a differential eFUSE sense circuit fuse bit cell without reference fuses in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The differential eFUSE sense circuit or fuse bit cell includes a fuse leg a first set of isolation devices a sense amp a second set of isolation devices restore devices an output latch and buffers a programming device .

As described in further detail below the fuse leg includes a current supply device PFET P fuse enable device NFET N eFUSE element and clamp device NFET N. The first set of isolation devices includes a PFET P and an NFET N. The second set of isolation devices includes a PFET P and an NFET N. The first set of isolation devices and the second set of isolation devices are driven by complementary inputs SENSEN and SENSEP. SENSEN drives the PFETs P and P while SENSEP drives NFETs N and N.

The sense amp includes a first ballast capacitor C a second ballast capacitor C a SETP input to an NFET N and a SETN input to a PFET P. The first ballast capacitor C is associated with P and N while the second ballast capacitor C is associated with P and N. As will thus be recognized P N P and N form a cross coupled latch for sensing a differential signal between nodes F and R and latching a logical value therein upon activation of P and N. The first set of isolation devices and the second set of isolation devices of the sense amp are used to respectively pass a fuse leg voltage and the reference voltage VREFX onto the ballast capacitors C and C to establish a voltage difference proportional to the relative difference between a fuse resistance and a reference resistance.

The restore devices include a pair of FETs P P coupled to reference voltage VREFX. VREFX is supplied from a low impedance voltage source not shown and is common to a group of for example 128 fuse bit cells. The restore devices have a RESTOREN input for enabling the pair of FETs P P to precharge the sense amp nodes F R to VREFX prior to sensing.

The output latch and buffers includes a first AOI configuration AOI a second AOI configuration AOI a first inverter output FT and a second inverter output FC . The output latch and buffers are formed by AOI configurations AOI AOI which have the property once latched of preventing an intermediate analog voltage or the sense latch restore level from altering the state of the digital 1 or 0 level stored within. The AOI configurations AOI AOI have a LATCH signal input thereto.

The programming device includes a PROGP input a BITSEL input a NAND gate and an inverter connected to an NFET N. A selected eFUSE e.g. eFUSE is programmed by current flowing from FSOURCE through the eFUSE through NFET N to ground. NFET N is activated conductive when control signals PROGP and BITSEL are logical high. FSOURCE is held at ground and clamp input CLAMP is held high after programming is complete.

The fuse leg is energized by several inputs. These inputs include VX to the current supply device P FUSEEN to the fuse enable device N FSOURCE and CLAMP to the clamp device N. The current supply device P has its gate connected to VX the generation of which is described in further detail below and its drain coupled to the drain of the fuse enable device N. In turn the fuse enable device N has its source connected to the cathode of the eFUSE element .

The fuse enable device N functions as a switch to pass current from P to the eFUSE element when fuses are to be read. Additionally N provides pre amplification of the fuse voltage developed on the eFUSE cathode node. As sense current from P flows through the eFUSE element a fuse voltage develops on the cathode node which reduces the overdrive Vgs Vgate to source and transconductance of N causing the drain of N to rise. Consequently a change in N source voltage may result in a change in drain voltage by a factor of 2 10 and serves to preamplify the cathode fuse voltage to enhance sensing accuracy.

The anode of the eFUSE element is in turn connected to the FSOURCE input and the drain of the clamp device N. The source of the clamp device N is connected to ground. The current supply device P injects a predetermined level of current through the eFUSE element such that the voltage on node F of sense amp equals the voltage VREFX on node R of sense amp when the resistance of the eFUSE element is equal to a reference resistance as described below. This fuse current is generated by the VXGEN circuit described below in and its output is distributed to all the fuse bit cells by current mirroring techniques.

Once current is applied by the current supply device P a differential signal is developed and stored on the two ballast capacitors C C of the sense amp and the isolation devices are then shut off. The isolation devices allow the sense amp to amplify the established differential voltage on nodes F and R. The sense amp is then set to the full rail voltage by activation of the SETN and SETP inputs and the LATCH signal transfers sense amp data to the digital AOI configurations AOI AOI. Once data is stored in the AOI configurations AOI AOI and the LATCH signal is held inactive HIGH any intermediate voltage levels from the sense amp do not disturb the stored digital data or cause a current burn condition. Further the VREFX level cannot alter the latch state since whenever the input signal LATCH is 1 or latched state the inputs to the AOI latch are completely isolated from the cross coupled latch nodes. This is a special attribute of the AOI latch and offers an advantage over use of a NAND latch or a simple inverter latch. Moreover once the fuse data is stored in the AOI latch configuration it will remain there so long as Vpower is maintained.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram illustrating one example of an adjustable reference current generator VXGEN utilized by the differential eFUSE sense circuit of in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention. In particular VXGEN includes a differential amplifier having a pair of inputs the first input to the negative inverting terminal is the VREFX input shown in and the second input plus to the positive non inverting terminal is a node within a mimic circuit . The output of the differential amplifier connected to a decoupling capacitor is the control signal VX used to control the current supply device P of . The mimic circuit mimics the fuse leg of wherein P mimics the current supply device P N mimics the fuse enable device N and N mimics the clamp device N. Accordingly the plus node of being connected between the mimic current supply device P and the mimic fuse enable device N mimics input node F of the sense amplifier in .

As also shown in VXGEN further includes a digitally controlled variable resistance device . The variable resistance device is coupled between the mimic fuse enable device N and the mimic clamp device N of the mimic circuit which is analogous to the location of the eFUSE element in the fuse leg of . In an exemplary embodiment selection of the value of the variable resistance device is implemented through six bits of resolution MARGIN MARGIN although a higher or lower degree of resistance value granularity can be used.

From a functional standpoint VXGEN calculates an appropriate value of VX applied to the gate of current supply device P in such that the voltage appearing on sense amp node F and R of are equal whenever the resistance of the eFUSE element is equal to the value of the variable resistance device in VXGEN. Consequently a selectable resistive trip point for the eFUSE element is created.

By way of example VXGEN permits fuse sensing of a trip point of 1000 . A trip point is the threshold or boundary at which the sense circuit determines a fuse to be in the 0 or 1 state. Again eFUSEs are elements that have a low resistance when intact e.g. about 200 . After programming the resistance may only increase by a few hundred ohms. The trip point is the resistance where a sense latch switches from detecting a 0 to a 1 . If the trip point or sense threshold is at 1000 then any fuse having a resistance below 1000 is considered in the 0 state and any fuse having a resistance above 1000 is considered in the 1 state.

Thus configured provide for an eFUSE circuit that is capable of detecting slight resistance variances in a dependable and repeatable manner. As a result eFUSEs with small changes in resistivity between programmed and unprogrammed states may be sensed reliably through the exemplary embodiments discussed above. By providing such configurations density is also improved by elimination of a reference resistor for sensing of an electronic fuse. Margin testing is further possible through adjustment of the reference current wherein the accuracy of the resistance measurement is on the order of about 100 . Immunity from burning excess current is also provided by the use of the AOI latch.

A machine readable computer program may be created by one of skill in the art and stored in computer system or a data and or any one or more of machine readable medium to simplify the practicing of this invention. In operation information for the computer program created to run the present invention is loaded on the appropriate removable data and or program storage device fed through data port or entered using keyboard . A user controls the program by manipulating functions performed by the computer program and providing other data inputs via any of the above mentioned data input means. Display device provides a means for the user to accurately control the computer program and perform the desired tasks described herein.

Design process includes using a variety of inputs for example inputs from library elements which may house a set of commonly used elements circuits and devices including models layouts and symbolic representations for a given manufacturing technology e.g. different technology nodes 32 nm 45 nm 90 nm etc. design specifications characterization data verification data design rules and test data files which may include test patterns and other testing information. Design process further includes for example standard circuit design processes such as timing analysis verification tools design rule checkers place and route tools etc. One of ordinary skill in the art of integrated circuit design can appreciate the extent of possible electronic design automation tools and applications used in design process without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention.

Ultimately design process translates differential eFUSE sense circuit along with the rest of the integrated circuit design if applicable into a final design structure e.g. information stored in a GDS storage medium . Final design structure may comprise information such as for example test data files eFuse programming data files design content files manufacturing data layout parameters wires levels of metal vias shapes test data data for routing through the manufacturing line and any other data required by a semiconductor manufacturer to produce differential eFUSE sense circuit . Final design structure may then proceed to a stage of design flow where stage is for example where final design structure proceeds to tape out is released to manufacturing is sent to another design house or is sent back to the customer.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention has been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

