---

title: Highly dispersible carbon nanospheres in an organic solvent and methods for making same
abstract: The particle sizes of agglomerates of carbon nanospheres are reduced by dispersing the carbon nanospheres in an organic solvent. The carbon nanospheres are multi-walled, hollow, graphitic structures with an average diameter in a range from about 10 nm to about 200 nm, more preferably about 20 nm to about 100 nm. Spectral data shows that prior to being dispersed, the carbon nanospheres are agglomerated into clusters that range in size from 500 nm to 5 microns. The clusters of nanospheres are reduced in size by dispersing the carbon nanospheres in an organic solvent containing at least one heteroatom (e.g., NMP) using ultrasonication. The combination of organic solvent and ultrasonication breaks up and disperses agglomerates of carbon nanospheres.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07960440&OS=07960440&RS=07960440
owner: Headwaters Technology Innovation LLC
number: 07960440
owner_city: Lawrenceville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071009
---
The present invention relates generally to the manufacture of carbon nanomaterials. More particularly the present invention relates to methods for manufacturing carbon nanospheres that are highly dispersed in an organic solvent.

Carbon materials have been used in various fields for a variety of applications. Examples of current uses of carbon materials include pigments fillers catalyst supports and fuel cell electrodes among others. Pyrolysis of organic compounds is a known method for preparing carbon materials. For example carbon materials can be produced by pyrolyzing resorcinol formaldehyde gel at temperatures above 600 C.

Most carbon materials obtained by pyrolysis of organic compounds at temperatures between 600 1400 C. tend to be amorphous or have a disordered structure. Obtaining highly crystalline or graphitic carbon materials can be very advantageous because of the unique properties exhibited by graphite. For example graphitic materials can be thermally and electrically conductive.

Recently methods have been developed to make highly ordered graphitic structures such as carbon nanotubes. One way to make graphitic nanostructures is to carbonize a carbon precursor carbon gas or carbon resin in the presence of a metal catalyst. The catalyst is typically a salt of iron nickel or cobalt that is mixed with carbon precursor and then heated. During the carbonization process the carbon nanostructure grows from or around the catalytic metal to yield a well ordered structure. The metal catalyst can be removed from the carbon nanomaterial by treating with strong acids. Amorphous carbon can be removed using an oxidizing agent such as potassium permanganate.

The present invention relates to methods for reducing the particle size of agglomerates of carbon nanospheres by dispersing the carbon nanospheres in an organic solvent. The carbon nanospheres are multi walled hollow graphitic structures with an average diameter in a range from about 10 nm to about 200 nm more preferably about 20 nm to about 100 nm. Spectral data shows that prior to being dispersed the carbon nanospheres are agglomerated into clusters that range in size from 500 nm to 5 microns. In the method of the present invention the clusters of nanospheres are reduced in size by dispersing the carbon nanospheres in an organic solvent using ultrasonication. The solvents that can be used are organic molecules having one or more electron rich heteroatoms such as oxygen or nitrogen e.g. N methylpyrrolidone or pyridine . The combination of this type of organic solvent and ultrasonication is able to break tip and disperse agglomerates of carbon nanospheres. Unexpectedly agglomerates of carbon nanospheres with an average particle size of 500 nm to 5 microns can be dispersed using the inventive methods to yield nanospheres and or agglomerates of nanospheres with an average particle size of less than about 300 nm more preferably less than about 200 nm and most preferably less than about 150 nm as measured using dynamic light scattering.

The combination of an organic solvent having electron rich heteroatoms and ultrasonication can yield a very stable dispersion of carbon nanospheres within the organic solvent. Carbon nanospheres dispersed using the method of the invention can be stable in the organic solvent for hours days months or even longer. Surprisingly the particle size distribution can be very narrow. In contrast to just sonicating in water or an aliphatic solvent the combination of ultrasonicating the carbon nanospheres in a organic solvent having a heteroatom can yield a carbon nanomaterial with a surprisingly narrow particle size distribution as measured using dynamic light scattering. In one embodiment at least 80 of the carbon nanomaterial has an average particle size of less than 500 nm more preferably less than 300 nm and most preferably less than 200 nm. More preferably at least 90 of the carbon nanomaterial has an average particle size within one or more of the foregoing particle size ranges.

The small particle size narrow particle size distribution and stability of the suspended carbon nanospheres in the solvent is particularly advantageous for using the dispersed carbon nanomaterials in various applications including but not limited to fillers pigments supercapacitors and high performance electrodes.

Optionally the organic solvent can be combined with a surface modifying agent. The surface modifying agent can be any organic molecule that is soluble in the organic solvent and has one or more functional groups that can bond with the carbon nanospheres. The surface modifying agent can be a surfactant an organic acid a carbohydrate an amino acid and the like. Examples of suitable functional groups include carboxyl amine sulfonate and or hydroxyl groups. Specific examples of compounds that can be used as a surface modifying agent include glucose glycolic acid glycine ascorbic acid sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate phosphotungstic acid and trifluoroacetic acid. In one embodiment the surface modifying agent is a biocompatible organic molecule such as but not limited to glucose glycolic acid glycine or ascorbic acid.

In one embodiment the organic solvent can be a biocompatible solvent. The use of a biocompatible solvent and optionally a biocompatible surface modifying agent in combination with a desired particle size distribution is particularly advantageous for using the carbon nanospheres in biomedical applications.

In one embodiment the carbon nanospheres include oxygen containing surface functional groups that provide a bonding site for the surface modifying agent. The oxygen containing surface functional groups can be introduced during purification of the carbon nanospheres or can be introduced using a severe oxidizing agent. It has been found that oxygen containing functional groups can be highly beneficial for dispersing the carbon nanospheres according to the invention when the concentration of surface oxygen is at least about 2 wt surface oxygen as measured using XPS more preferably at least about 5 wt even more preferably at least about 10 wt and most preferably at least about 15 wt . The carbon nanospheres of the present invention also include an irregular surface. The irregular surface can be beneficial for introducing surface functional groups and can facilitate dispersing of the carbon nanospheres in the organic solvent.

To disperse the carbon nanospheres the carbon nanospheres are mixed with the organic solvent and then ultrasonicated. The chemical adsorption and or bonding of the organic solvent during ultrasonication breaks up agglomerates of carbon nanospheres and disperses the carbon nanospheres and or smaller agglomerates of carbon nanospheres into the organic solvent. The ultrasonication can be carried out for a period of about 0.5 hr to about 6 hr more preferably for about 1 hr to about 4 hr.

The term ultrasonication is well known in the art and refers to a process in which ultrasonic sound waves are input into a vessel. In this case the vessel will contain the organic solvent carbon nanospheres and or agglomorates and optional components.

The carbon nanospheres dispersed using the methods of the invention have been found to retain the beneficial structure shape and graphitic nature of the undispersed carbon nanospheres. The dispersed carbon nanospheres are highly graphitic which is advantageous for providing strength electrical conductivity thermal conductivity and other desired properties.

These and other advantages and features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims as set forth below.

The present invention relates to carbon nanospheres dispersed in an organic solvent using ultrasonication. The dispersion of the carbon nanospheres reduces the average particle size as measured using dynamic light scattering. Using the methods of the invention the average particle size is reduced from greater than about 500 nm to less than about 300 nm more preferably less than about 200 nm. The dispersed carbon nanospheres have unique properties due to their size and dispersion in the organic solvent.

For purposes of the present invention the term average particle size of the carbon nanomaterial is determined using dynamic light scattering and corresponds to a peak of the light scattering spectral data. Where more than one significant peak is observed the average diameter shall mean the weighted average according to the intensity for the two or more peaks unless otherwise indicated.

The carbon nanospheres used in the method of the invention are multi walled hollow graphitic strictures with an average diameter in a range from about 10 nm to about 200 nm preferably about 20 nm to about 100 nm. The multiple walls form a closed structure with a hollow center.

Typically the individual carbon nanospheres have an aspect ratio of less than about 3 1 i.e. width to height is less than 3 1 preferably less than about 2 1 more preferably less than about 1.75 1 and most preferably less than about 1.5 1. In one embodiment the carbon nanospheres have an irregular surface. The irregular surface has defects that cause the nanospheres to have a shape that is not perfectly spherical. The graphitic defects are believed to contribute in part to the dispersibility of the carbon nanospheres in the organic solvent. The carbon nanospheres are highly graphitic which gives the carbon nanomaterial excellent electrical and thermal conductivity.

Typically the thickness of the carbon nanosphere wall is between about 1 nm and 20 nm. However thicker and thinner walls can be made if desired. The thickness of the nanostructure wall is measured from the inside diameter of the wall to the outside diameter of the wall. In one embodiment the carbon nanostructures have walls of between about 2 and about 100 graphite layers preferably between about 5 and 50 graphite layers and more preferably between about 5 and 20 graphite layers. The number of graphitic layers can be varied by varying the thickness of the carbon nanostructure wall as discussed below in relation to methods for manufacturing carbon nanospheres. The advantage of making a thicker wall is greater structural integrity. The advantage of making a thinner wall is greater surface area and nanoporosity.

The spheroidal shape and multi walled nature of the carbon nanospheres also provides strength that makes the carbon nanospheres less likely to be crushed or broken into undesired shapes or non shaped graphite. Maintaining the shape of the carbon nanospheres can be important for maintaining performance characteristics over time. The multi walled nature of the nanospheres also allows the surface to be functionalized while maintaining the beneficial thermal and electrical conductivity via the interior graphite layers. The hollow center gives the nanomaterial a relatively lower density and higher porosity. In one embodiment the surface area is in a range from about 100 m g to about 400 m g preferably about 125 m g to about 300 m g and more preferably about 150 m g to about 250 m g.

The carbon nanomaterials are prior to dispersion typically provided as agglomerated particles of carbon nanospheres. While the individual carbon nanospheres have a diameter of less than 500 nm the carbon nanospheres tend to agglomerate to form clusters i.e. particles of agglomerated nanospheres with average diameters greater than 500 nm. Spectral data shows that prior to being dispersed the carbon nanospheres are agglomerated into clusters that range in size from 500 nm to 5 microns. is a graph showing the size distribution of a carbon nanomaterial used in one embodiment of the invention prior to the carbon nanomaterial being dispersed. As seen in the average particle diameter is about 1.4 microns as measured using dynamic light scattering.

In one embodiment the carbon nanospheres can be one of several components of a carbon nanomaterial. Higher percentages of carbon nanospheres are typically preferred such that the carbon nanomaterial can benefit from the unique properties of the carbon nanospheres. In one embodiment the nanospheres are at least about 10 wt of the carbon nanomaterial preferably at least about 50 wt more preferably about 75 wt even more preferably at least about 90 wt and most preferably at least about 98 wt . The portion of the carbon nanomaterial that is not carbon nanospheres is preferably a graphitic material such as graphite sheets or other graphitic nanostructures. The carbon nanomaterials can include non graphitic amorphous carbon. However it is typically advantageous to minimize the percentage of non graphitic amorphous carbon e.g. by removing it during purification and or by converting non graphitic amorphous carbon to graphite during additional heat treatment steps .

The carbon nanospheres typically include oxygen containing surface functional groups that can bond or otherwise interact with the solvent. It has been found that oxygen containing functional groups can be highly beneficial for dispersing the carbon nanospheres according to the invention when the concentration of surface oxygen is at least about 2 wt surface oxygen as measured using XPS preferably at least about 5 wt more preferably at least about 10 wt and most preferably at least about 15 wt of surface oxygen as measured using XPS.

The carbon nanospheres can be treated to introduce oxygen containing functional groups on the surface. Examples of suitable oxidizing agents include sulfuric acid KMnO HO 5M or greater HNO and aqua regia. The foregoing oxidizing agents tend to introduce less than about 9 wt oxygen to the surface of the carbon nanospheres as measured using XPS. If desired higher wt oxygen containing functional groups can be achieved using severe oxidizing agents. Introducing oxygen containing functional groups can be beneficial to provide desired quantities of locations where the organic solvent chemically interact with the carbon nanospheres. Examples of suitable severe oxidizing agents include i mixtures of nitric acid and sulfuric acid ii solutions of hydrogen peroxide and iii mixtures of sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide. Specific examples of suitable concentrations for severe oxidation include but are not limited to a mixture of sulfuric acid and nitric acid 70 in a 3 1 v v ratio a solution of 30 hydrogen peroxide or a mixture of sulfuric acid 98 and hydrogen peroxide 30 in a 4 1 v v ratio.

Optionally a surface modifying agent can be combined with the organic solvent to facilitate dispersion and or stability. The surface modifying agent used in the invention is an organic molecule that is soluble in the organic solvent and has one or more functional groups that can bond with the carbon nanospheres. The surface modifying agent can be a surfactant an organic acid a carbohydrate an amino acid and the like. Examples of suitable functional groups for bonding with the surface of the carbon nanospheres include carboxyl amine sulfonate and or hydroxyl groups. In some embodiments the functional groups are selected to bond with oxygen containing functional groups on the surface of the carbon nanospheres e.g. hydroxyl or carboxyl groups . Specific examples of compounds that can be used as a surface modifying agent include glucose glycolic acid glycine ascorbic acid sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate phosphotungstic acid trifluoroacetic acid and the like.

The organic solvent is a hydrocarbon that includes at least one heteroatom. In a preferred embodiment the at least one heteroatom is an electron rich atom such as an oxygen or nitrogen atom. The organic solvent can be straight chained but is preferably a cyclic compound. In one embodiment the heteroatom is a constituent of the ring of the cyclic compound. Examples of suitable organic solvents include N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine imidazoles derivatives including 1 3 aminopropyl imidazoles 1 Diethoxy methyl imidazoles 1 2 hydroxyethyl imidazoles 4 1H imidazole 1 yl aniline 4 imidazole 1 yl phenol barbituric acid 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone hydrazone hydrochloride quinoxaline and its derivatives pyridine derivatives 1 ethyl 4 piperidone 1 ethylpiperazine ethyl 2 picolinate.

Surprisingly it has been found that cyclic compounds containing nitrogen and or oxygen e.g. NMP work particularly well for dispersing carbon nanospheres using ultrasonication. In one embodiment the organic solvent is a biocompatible solvent such as but not limited to NMP or pyridine such that the dispersion can be used for biological applications.

In the method of the present invention the clusters of nanospheres are reduced in size by dispersing the carbon nanospheres in the organic solvent using ultrasonication and optionally a surface modifying agent.

The method generally includes selecting an organic solvent with at least one heteroatom that can bond to or interact with the surface of the carbon nanospheres. To disperse the carbon nanospheres a mixture of the organic solvent and the carbon nanospheres is formed. Optionally this mixture can also include a surface modifying agent to facilitate dispersion and or the stability of the dispersed carbon nanomaterial. The carbon nanomaterial containing the carbon nanospheres is typically included in the mixture in a concentration in a range from about 0.1 wt to about 20 wt more preferably from about 1 wt to about 10 wt . If the surface modifying agent is included the concentration is typically in a range from about 0.5 wt to about 20 wt more preferably about 5 wt to about 10 wt .

The carbon nanospheres are dispersed into the solvent using ultrasonication. Ultrasonication can be carried out using any suitable technique such as ultrasonic bath to vibrate the carbon nanospheres at ultrasonic frequencies. An example of an ultrasonication device suitable for use in dispersing carbon nanospheres is CREST ULTRASONICS TRU SWEEP 68 kHz frequencies and 500 watt .

Ultrasonication is typically carried out for at least 30 min preferably at least about 1 hour and more preferably at least about 2 hours. Examples of suitable ranges of time for carrying out ultrasonication of the mixture include about 30 minutes to about 6 hours and preferably about 1 hour to about 4 hours. The ultrasonication step can be carried out at room temperature or other suitable temperatures.

The combination of the organic solvent ultrasonication and optionally a surface modifying agent is able to break up and disperse agglomerates of carbon nanospheres. Unexpectedly agglomerates of carbon nanospheres with an average particle size of 500 mm to 5 microns can be dispersed using the inventive methods to yield nanospheres and or agglomerates of nanospheres with an average particle size of less than about 300 mm more preferably less than about 200 mm and most preferably less than about 150 nm as measured using dynamic light scattering.

Dynamic light scattering data of the dispersed carbon nanospheres of the invention illustrate the significant reduction in average particle size achieved using the method of the present invention. is a graph showing the dynamic light scattering of a carbon nanomaterial dispersed using the method of the present invention which is described in detail below in Example 2. As shown in in one embodiment the method of the invention yielded dispersed carbon nanospheres with an average particle size of 147 nm. are SEM and TEM images respectively of carbon nanospheres after they have been dispersed according to the present invention. can be compared to which show the carbon nanomaterials of prior to being dispersed according to the invention. This comparison of the Figures reveals the significant improvement in dispersion achieved using the methods of the present invention.

In addition to the improved dispersion the dispersed carbon nanospheres also tend to have a relatively narrow distribution of particle sizes. In one embodiment the width of the particle size distribution is in a range from about 10 nm to about 300 nm.

Carbon nanospheres dispersed according to the methods of the present invention advantageously retain their beneficial properties such as multi walled hollow closed structure graphitic nature and original size and shape of the primary structures. The carbon nanospheres shown in the TEM image of reveal highly dispersed carbon nanospheres with similar primary structure as the carbon nanospheres in the clusters of prior to dispersion.

The carbon nanospheres dispersed according to the present invention have been found to be surprisingly stable in the organic solvent. Carbon nanospheres manufactured according to the present invention have been observed to be stable for months at room temperature. In one embodiment of the invention the carbon nanospheres are stable for at least about one hour more preferably at least about one day and most preferably at least about one month.

The dispersed carbon nanospheres are particularly advantageous for making composites. Because the carbon nanospheres are readily dispersible the carbon nanospheres can be mixed with other materials to form composites. The composites of the invention can benefit from the narrow particle size distribution and unique properties of the carbon nanospheres of the invention including strength electrical and thermal conductivity porosity surface area etc.

The carbon nanospheres used in the methods of the present invention can be manufactured using any technique that provides carbon nanospheres having the desired properties described above. In one embodiment the method for manufacturing carbon nanospheres generally includes 1 forming a precursor mixture that includes a carbon precursor and a plurality of catalytic templating particles 2 carbonizing the precursor mixture to form an intermediate carbon material including carbon nanostructures amorphous carbon and catalytic metal and 3 purifying the intermediate carbon material by removing at least a portion of the amorphous carbon and optionally at least a portion of the catalytic metal. The following components can be used to carry out the above mentioned steps for manufacturing carbon nanospheres according to the present invention.

Any type of carbon material can be used as the carbon precursor of the present invention so long as it can disperse the templating particles and carbonize around the templating particles upon heat treating. Suitable compounds include single and multi ring aromatic compounds such as benzene and naphthalene derivatives that have polymerizable functional groups. Also included are ring compounds that can form single and multi ring aromatic compounds upon heating. Functional groups that can participate in polymerization include COOH C O OH C C SO NH SOH N C O and the like.

The carbon precursor can be a single type of molecule e.g. a compound that can polymerize with itself or the carbon precursor can be a combination of two or more different compounds that co polymerize together. For example in one embodiment the carbon precursor can be a resorcinol formaldehyde gel. In this two compound embodiment the formaldehyde acts as a cross linking agent between resorcinol molecules by polymerizing with the hydroxyl groups of the resorcinol molecules.

Other examples of suitable carbon precursors include resorcinol phenol resin melamine formaldehyde gel poly furfuryl alcohol poly acrylonitrile sucrose petroleum pitch and the like. Other polymerizable benzenes quinones and similar compounds can also be used as carbon precursors and are known to those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the carbon precursor is a hydrothermally polymerizable organic compound. Suitable organic compounds of this type include citric acid acrylic acid benzoic acid acrylic ester butadiene styrene cinnamic acid and the like.

The catalytic templating nanoparticles are used as a template for making the nanostructures. When mixed with the carbon precursor the templating nanoparticles provide a nucleation site where carbonization and or polymerization can begin or be enhanced. Because the templating nanoparticles are made from catalytic atoms the templating particles can advantageously serve as both a nucleating site and as a catalyst for carbonization and or polymerization.

The catalytic templating particles can be formed in more than one way. As described below in one embodiment the templating particles are formed from metal salts that agglomerate to form particles. Optionally the catalyst atoms can be complexed with a dispersing agent to control formation of the particles. Templating nanoparticles formed using a dispersing agent tend to be more uniform in size and shape than templating particles formed without a dispersing agent.

The catalyst atom used to form the templating nanoparticles can be any material that can cause or promote carbonization and or polymerization of the carbon precursor. In a preferred embodiment the catalyst is a transition metal catalyst including but not limited to iron cobalt or nickel. These transition metal catalysts are particularly useful for catalyzing many of the polymerization and or carbonization reactions involving the carbon precursors described above.

Optionally a dispersing agent can be complexed with the catalyst atoms to control formation of the templating nanoparticles. The dispersing agent is selected to promote the formation of nanocatalyst particles that have a desired stability size and or uniformity. Dispersing agents within the scope of the invention include a variety of small organic molecules polymers and oligomers. The dispersing agent is able to interact and bond with catalyst atoms dissolved or dispersed within an appropriate solvent or carrier through various mechanisms including ionic bonding covalent bonding Van der Waals interaction bonding lone pair electron bonding or hydrogen bonding.

To provide the bonding between the dispersing agent and the catalyst atoms the dispersing agent includes one or more appropriate functional groups. Preferred dispersing agents include functional groups which have either a charge or one or more lone pairs of electrons that can be used to complex a metal catalyst atom or which can form other types of bonding such as hydrogen bonding. These functional groups allow the dispersing agent to have a strong binding interaction with the catalyst atoms.

The dispersing agent may be a natural or synthetic compound. In the case where the catalyst atoms are metal and the dispersing agent is an organic compound the catalyst complex so formed may be an organometallic complex.

In one embodiment the functional groups of the dispersing agent comprise one or more members selected from the group of a hydroxyl a carboxyl a carbonyl an amine an amide a nitrile a nitrogen with a free lone pair of electrons an amino acid a thiol a sulfonic acid a sulfonyl halide or an acyl halide. The dispersing agent can be monofunctional bifunctional or polyfunctional.

Examples of suitable monofunctional dispersing agents include alcohols such as ethanol and propanol and carboxylic acids such as formic acid and acetic acid. Useful bifunctional dispersing agents include diacids such as oxalic acid malic acid malonic acid maleic acid succinic acid and the like dialcohols such as ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 3 propanediol and the like hydroxy acids such as glycolic acid lactic acid and the like. Useful polyfunctional dispersing agents include sugars such as glucose polyfunctional carboxylic acids such as citric acid pectins cellulose and the like. Other useful dispersing agents include ethanolamine mercaptoethanol 2 mercaptoacetate amino acids such as glycine and sulfonic acids such as sulfobenzyl alcohol sulfobenzoic acid sulfobenzyl thiol and sulfobenzyl amine. The dispersing agent may even include an inorganic component e.g. silicon based .

Suitable polymers and oligomers within the scope of the invention include but are not limited to polyacrylates polyvinylbenzoates polyvinyl sulfate polyvinyl sulfonates including sulfonated styrene polybisphenol carbonates polybenzimidizoles polypyridine sulfonated polyethylene terephthalate. Other suitable polymers include polyvinyl alcohol polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol and the like.

In addition to the characteristics of the dispersing agent it can also be advantageous to control the molar ratio of dispersing agent to the catalyst atoms in a catalyst suspension. A more useful measurement is the molar ratio between dispersing agent functional groups and catalyst atoms. For example in the case of a divalent metal ion two molar equivalents of a monovalent functional group would be necessary to provide the theoretical stoichiometric ratio. In a preferred embodiment the molar ratio of dispersing agent functional groups to catalyst atoms is preferably in a range of about 0.01 1 to about 100 1 more preferably in a range of about 0.05 1 to about 50 1 and most preferably in a range of about 0.1 1 to 20 1.

The dispersing agents of the present invention allow for the formation of very small and uniform nanoparticles. In general the nanocatalyst particles formed in the presence of the dispersing agent are less than 1 micron in size. Preferably the nanoparticles are less than about 100 mm more preferably less than about 50 nm and most preferably less than about 20 nm.

During pyrolysis of the carbon precursor the dispersing agent can inhibit agglomeration and deactivation of the catalyst particles. This ability to inhibit deactivation can increase the temperature at which the nanocatalysts can perform and or increase the useful life of the nanocatalyst in the extreme conditions of pyrolysis. Even if including the dispersing agent only preserves catalytic activity for a few additional milliseconds or even microseconds the increased duration of the nanocatalyst can be very beneficial at high temperatures given the dynamics of carbonization.

A solvent can optionally be used to prepare the catalyst atoms for mixing with the dispersing agent and or the carbon precursor. The liquid medium in which the catalytic templating nanoparticles are prepared may contain various solvents including water and organic solvents. Solvents participate in particle formation by providing a liquid medium for the interaction of catalyst atoms and dispersing agent. In some cases the solvent may act as a secondary dispersing agent in combination with a primary dispersing agent that is not acting as a solvent. In one embodiment the solvent also allows the nanoparticles to form a suspension. Suitable solvents include water methanol ethanol n propanol isopropyl alcohol acetonitrile acetone tetrahydrofuran ethylene glycol dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide methylene chloride and the like including mixtures thereof.

The catalyst composition can also include additives to assist in the formation of the nanocatalyst particles. For example mineral acids and basic compounds can be added preferably in small quantities e.g. less than 5 wt . Examples of mineral acids that can be used include hydrochloric acid nitric acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid and the like. Examples of basic compounds include sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide calcium hydroxide ammonium hydroxide and similar compounds.

It is also possible to add solid materials to assist in nanoparticle formation. For example ion exchange resins may be added to the solution during catalyst formation. Ion exchange resins can be substituted for the acids or bases mentioned above. Solid materials can be easy separated from the final iron catalyst solution or suspension using simple techniques such as centrifugation and filtration.

Various reagents can be used to remove amorphous carbon and or the catalytic metals from the carbon nanostructures thereby purifying the intermediate material. The purification can be carried out using any reagent or combination of reagents capable of selectively removing amorphous carbon or optionally catalytic metal while leaving graphitic material.

Reagents for removing amorphous carbon include oxidizing acids oxidizing agents and mixtures of these. An example of a mixture suitable for removing amorphous carbon includes sulfuric acid KMnO HO 5M or greater HNO and aqua regia.

The catalytic metal can be removed using any reagent that can selectively dissolve the particular metal used as catalyst without significantly destroying the carbon nanostructures which are graphitic. Nitric acid is an example of a reagent suitable for dissolving many base transition metals such as but not limited to iron cobalt and nickel. Other examples of suitable reagents include hydrogen fluoride hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide. If desired additional heat treatment steps can be carried out on the intermediate carbon to convert all or some of the remaining amorphous carbon to graphite. The subsequent heat treatment can be carried out at a temperature above about 250 C. more preferably above about 500 C.

The carbon nanostructures of the present invention can be manufactured using all or a portion of the following steps i forming a precursor mixture that includes a carbon precursor and a plurality of templating nanoparticles ii allowing or causing the carbon precursor to polymerize around the catalytic templating nanoparticles iii carbonizing the precursor mixture to form an intermediate carbon material that includes a plurality of nanostructures e.g. carbon nanospheres amorphous carbon and catalytic metal and iv purifying the intermediate carbon material by removing at least a portion of the amorphous carbon and optionally a portion of the catalytic metal. The purification step can also include removing oxygen containing functional groups generated during the removal of amorphous carbon or adding additional oxygen containing functional groups to impart greater hydrophilicity to the carbon nanospheres.

The precursor mixture is formed by selecting a carbon precursor and dispersing a plurality of catalytic templating nanoparticles in the carbon precursor.

The catalytic templating nanoparticles which are dispersed in the carbon precursor can be provided in several different ways. The templating nanoparticles can be formed in the carbon precursor i.e. in situ or formed in a separate reaction mixture and then mixed with the carbon precursor. In some cases particle formation may partially occur in a separate reaction and then be completed as the templating particles are mixed and or heated in the carbon precursor e.g. at the onset of a precursor polymerization step . The templating nanoparticles can also be formed using a dispersing agent that controls one or more aspects of particle formation or the templating nanoparticles can be made from metal salts.

In one embodiment the templating nanoparticles are formed in the carbon precursor from a metal salt. In this embodiment the templating nanoparticles are formed by selecting one or more catalyst metal salts that can be mixed with the carbon precursor. The metal salts are mixed with the carbon precursor and then allowed or caused to form nanoparticles in situ.

In a more preferred embodiment the templating particles are formed in situ or ex situ using a dispersing agent to control particle formation. In this embodiment one or more types of catalyst atoms and one or more types of dispersing agents are selected. Next the catalyst atoms e.g. in the form of a ground state metal or metal salt and dispersing agent e.g. in the form of a carboxylic acid or its salt are reacted or combined together to form catalyst complexes. The catalyst complexes are generally formed by first dissolving the catalyst atoms and dispersing agent in an appropriate solvent and then allowing the catalyst atoms to bond with the dispersing agent molecules. The various components may be combined or mixed in any sequence or combination. In addition a subset of the components can be premixed prior to addition of other components or all components may be simultaneously combined.

In an embodiment of the invention the components for the templating nanoparticles are allowed or caused to form nanoparticles by mixing the components for a period of about 1 hour to about 14 days. This mixing is typically conducted at temperatures ranging from about 0 C. to about 200 C. In one embodiment the temperature does not exceed 100 C. Particle formation can also be induced using a reagent. For example in some cases formation of particles or intermediate particles can be caused by bubbling hydrogen through the solution of catalyst complexes.

The templating nanoparticles of the present invention are capable of catalyzing polymerization and or carbonization of the carbon precursor. The concentration of catalytic templating nanoparticles in the carbon precursor is typically selected to maximize the number of carbon nanostructures formed. The amount of catalytic templating particles can vary depending on the type of carbon precursor being used. In an example embodiment the molar ratio of carbon precursor to catalyst atoms is about 0.1 1 to about 100 1 more preferably about 1 1 to about 30 1.

The precursor mixture is typically allowed to cure for sufficient time such that a plurality of intermediate carbon nanostructures are formed around the templating nanoparticles. Because the templating nanoparticles are catalytically active the templating nanoparticles can preferentially accelerate and or initiate polymerization of the carbon precursor near the surface of the templating particles.

The time needed to form intermediate nanostructures depends on the temperature the type and concentration of the catalyst material the pH of the solution and the type of carbon precursor being used. During polymerization the intermediate carbon nanostructures can be individual organic structures or an association of nanostructures that break apart during carbonization and or removal of amorphous carbon.

Ammonia added to adjust the pH can also effect polymerization by increasing the rate of polymerization and by increasing the amount of cross linking that occurs between precursor molecules.

For hydrothermally polymerizable carbon precursors polymerization typically occurs at elevated temperatures. In a preferred embodiment the carbon precursor is heated to a temperature of about 0 C. to about 200 C. and more preferably between about 25 C. to about 120 C.

An example of a suitable condition for polymerization of resorcinol formaldehyde gel e.g. with iron particles and a solution pH of 1 14 is a solution temperature between about 0 C. and about 90 C. and a cure time of less than 1 hour to about 72 hours. Those skilled in the art can readily determine the conditions necessary to cure other carbon precursors under the same or different parameters.

In one embodiment the polymerization is not allowed to continue to completion. Terminating the curing process before the entire solution is polymerized can help to form a plurality of intermediate nanostructures that will result in individual nanostructures rather than a single mass of carbonized material. However the present invention includes embodiments where the carbon precursor forms a plurality of intermediate carbon nanostructures that are linked or partially linked to one another. In this embodiment individual nanostructures are formed during carbonization and or during the removal of amorphous carbon.

Forming intermediate carbon nanostructures from the dispersion of templating nanoparticles causes formation of a plurality of intermediate carbon nanostructures having unique shapes and sizes. Ultimately the properties of the nanostructure can depend at least in part on the shape and size of the intermediate carbon nanostructure. Because of the unique shapes and sizes of the intermediate carbon nanostructures the final nanostructures can have beneficial properties such as high surface area and high porosity among others.

The precursor mixture is carbonized by heating to form an intermediate carbon material that includes a plurality of carbon nanostructures amorphous carbon and catalyst metal. The precursor mixture can be carbonized by heating the mixture to a temperature between about 500 C. and about 2500 C. During the heating process atoms such as oxygen and nitrogen are volatilized or otherwise removed from the intermediate nanostructures or the carbon around the templating nanoparticles and the carbon atoms are rearranged or coalesced to form a carbon based structure.

The carbonizing step typically produces a graphite based nanostructure. The graphite based nanostructure has carbon atoms arranged in structured sheets of sphybridized carbon atoms. The graphitic layers can provide unique and beneficial properties such as electrical conduction and structural strength and or rigidity.

The intermediate carbon material is purified by removing at least a portion of non graphitic amorphous carbon. This purification step increases the weight percent of carbon nanostructures in the intermediate carbon material.

The amorphous carbon is typically removed by oxidizing the carbon. The oxidizing agents used to remove the amorphous carbon are selective to oxidation of the bonds found in non graphitic amorphous carbon but are less reactive to the pi bonds of the graphitic carbon nanostructures. The amorphous carbon can be removed by applying the oxidative agents or mixtures in one or more successive purification steps.

Optionally substantially all or a portion of the catalytic metals can be removed. Whether the catalytic metal is removed and the purity to which the catalytic metal is removed will depend on the desired amount of metal in the final product.

Typically the templating nanoparticles are removed using acids or bases such as nitric acid hydrogen fluoride or sodium hydroxide. The method of removing the templating nanoparticles or amorphous carbon depends on the type of templating nanoparticle or catalyst atoms in the composite. Catalyst atoms or particles e.g. iron particles or atoms can typically be removed by refluxing the composite nanostructures in 5.0 M nitric acid solution for about 3 6 hours.

Any removal process can be used to remove the templating nanoparticles and or amorphous carbon so long as the removal process does not completely destroy the carbon nanostructures. In some cases it may even be beneficial to at least partially remove some of the carbonaceous material from the intermediate nanostructure during the purification process.

During the purification process the oxidizing agents and acids have a tendency to introduce hydronium groups and oxygenated groups such as but not limited to carboxylates carbonyls and or ether groups to the surface of the carbonaceous materials. The oxidizing agents and conditions used to merely remove amorphous carbon typically introduce less than 9 wt oxygen to the surface of the carbon nanostructures.

Optionally the purification process can also include additional heat treatment steps at temperatures and conditions that can convert residual amorphous carbon to graphite. In this optional step residual carbon is more easily converted to a graphitic material since a substantial portion of the amorphous carbon has been removed and there is better heat transfer to the portion that remains. If desired oxygen containing functional groups can be introduced to the surface of the carbon nanospheres by treating the intermediate carbon nanomaterial with a severe oxidizing agent. Generally the duration of the oxidative treatment will depend on the amount of amorphous carbon in the intermediate material i.e. whether a prior purification step has been performed and if so how much residual amorphous carbon remains the strength of the oxidizing agent and the desired amount of functional groups to be introduced. Typically the rate of functionalization increases with decreasing residual amorphous carbon and increases with increasing oxidizing potential of the oxidizing agent. In one embodiment the oxidative treatment is carried out for a period of time in a range from about 2 hours to about 48 hours. To facilitate oxidation the oxidative treatment can be carried out using sonication.

Carbon nanomaterials manufactured using the foregoing methods can be particularly advantageous for use in the present invention due to their controlled size and shape. However those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention can be carried out using carbon nanospheres manufactured using different methods than the foregoing.

The following examples provide formulas for making dispersed carbon nanomaterials containing carbon nanospheres according to the present invention.

Example 1 describes the preparation of an intermediate carbon nanomaterial having carbon nanospheres that are agglomerated into clusters with an average particle size greater than 1 micron as measured using dynamic light scattering.

A 0.1 M iron solution was prepared by using 84 g iron powder 289 g of citric acid and 15 L of water. The iron containing mixture was mixed in a closed bottle on a shaker table for 3 days with brief interruptions once or twice daily to purge the vapor space of the bottle with air gas before resuming mixing.

916.6 g of resorcinol and 1350 g of formaldehyde 37 in water were placed in a round bottom flask. The solution was stirred until resorcinol was fully dissolved. 15 L of the iron solution from step a was slowly added with stirring and then 1025 ml of Ammonium hydroxide 28 30 in water was added drop wise with vigorous stirring the pH of the resulted suspension was 10.26. The slurry was cured at 80 90 C. water bath for 10 hours. The solid carbon precursor mixture was the collected using filtration and dried in an oven overnight.

The polymerized precursor mixture was placed in a crucible with a cover and transferred to a furnace. The carbonization process was carried out under ample nitrogen flow using the following temperature program room temperature 1050 C. at a rate of 20 C. min hold for 5 hrs at 1050 C. room temperature. The carbonization step yielded an intermediate carbon material having carbon nanostructures amorphous carbon and iron.

The purification of the carbonized carbon product i.e. the intermediate carbon material was performed as follows reflux carbonized product in 5M HNOfor 12 hrs rinse with de ionized DI HO treat with a mixture of KMnO HSO HO at a mole ratio of 1 0.01 0.003 keep at 90 C. for 12 hrs rinse with DI HO treat with 4M HCl keep at 90 C. for 12 hrs rinse with Di HO collect the product and dry in the oven at 100 C. for two days.

Example 2 describes a method for preparing dispersed carbon nanospheres using N methylpyrrolidone NMP as the organic solvent and ultrasonication.

100 ml of NMP was added to 3.0 g of carbon nanomaterial greater than 98 carbon nanospheres in a glass container. The solution was then mixed using ultrasound treatment for 2 hours. Ultrasonication to effect dispersion of nanospheres was performed using CREST ULTRASONICS TRU SWEEP 68 kHz frequencies and 500 watt . The solution turned black indicating the dispersion of the carbon nanospheres in the NMP. The 2 wt dispersed carbon nanospheres continued to remain stably dispersed in the NMP after three months. are SEM and TEM images respectively of the carbon nanospheres manufactured according to Example 2. As discussed above The SEM and TEM images show a dramatic improvement in dispersion as compared to the undispersed carbon nanomaterial which are shown in .

100 ml of pyridine was added to 3.0 g of carbon nanomaterial greater than 98 carbon nanospheres . The solution was then mixed using ultrasound treatment for 2 hours. Ultrasonication to effect dispersion of nanospheres was performed using CREST ULTRASONICS TRU SWEEP 68 kHz frequencies and 500 watt . The solution turned black indicating the dispersion of the carbon nanospheres in the pyridine. The average particle size as measured using dynamic light scattering was 138 nm. The 1.7 wt dispersed carbon nanospheres continued to remain stably dispersed in the pyridine after three months.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

