---

title: System and method for sharing images using an upload menu
abstract: There is disclosed a system and method for uploading an image file to an image repository from a mobile handheld communications device having an integrated camera. In an embodiment, the method comprises: upon determining capture of an image using the integrated camera, automatically initiating an image upload module; configuring the image upload module to display an image upload user interface having user selectable image upload settings; and upon receiving user instructions, uploading the image file to the image repository with the selected image upload settings. The upload settings may be preselected and the device may be preauthorized to access an account on the image repository.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08265686&OS=08265686&RS=08265686
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08265686
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20070529
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for sharing images using an image upload module.

Recent advances with handheld wireless communication devices have resulted in the introduction of integrated cameras capable of capturing images at a resolution sufficient for many consumer applications. Once captured the images may be stored in available memory on the communication device and viewed on a display provided on the communication device. However the available memory on the communication device may be limited and a user may not be able to capture and store new images in the communication device without deleting images or other files already stored in memory. As well while the user may enjoy the images on the communication device the user may want to share the images with other users. However there may be carrier network restrictions on transmission bandwidth. Also if the images are to be shared the ability to easily add descriptive information and location information about the images may be desirable.

As noted above the present invention relates generally to systems and methods for sharing images using an upload menu.

In an illustrative embodiment the invention may be practiced with a handheld mobile communication device in a wireless operating environment. Shown in is a schematic block diagram of an illustrative handheld mobile communication device . The communication device may comprise a number of components including a main processor which controls the overall operation of communication device . Communication functions including data and voice communications may be performed through a communication subsystem . The communication subsystem may receive messages from and send messages to a wireless network .

The main processor may also interact with additional subsystems such as a random access memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a trackball a speaker a microphone short range communications a GPS subsystem a camera module and associated camera logic .

Some of the subsystems of the communication device may perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list. The trackball may be used for various navigation functions such as navigating through a graphical user interface GUI menu displayed on display . The trackball may also be configured with a secondary actuation feature such as allowing a user to depress the trackball to allow selection of a highlighted item.

The GPS subsystem may include a GPS antenna to receive signals transmitted by a minimum number of in view GPS satellites required to acquire accurate latitude and longitude coordinates. The GPS system may also be operatively connected to the main processor to pass the acquired latitude and longitude coordinates to one or more software applications and to store the latitude and longitude coordinates as may be required into flash memory or RAM . If the GPS antenna is not able to receive a signal from a sufficient number of in view GPS satellites e.g. because of buildings bridges or other obstructions or because the communication device is being used indoors it may not be possible to acquire the GPS coordinates.

The camera module may be adapted to capture an image through a lens onto a light sensitive image sensor such as a charge coupled device CCD sensor array or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor array. The camera lens may be a fixed focus lens or a variable focus lens with or without zoom features and controlled by camera logic to focus an image onto the CCD or CMOS sensor array. The size and pixel density of the CCD or CMOS sensor array may be suitably selected for the image resolution required for a particular application. Camera logic may also control the camera lens aperture and or shutter speed by incorporating a suitable light exposure meter. Image capture using camera module may initiated by a user controlling a dedicated camera shutter or a context dependent programmable button or key on keyboard for example that may act as a camera shutter button.

Once captured by the CCD or CMOS sensor array the image may then be processed by camera logic into a suitable digital image file format such as Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG Tagged Image File Format TIFF Bit Mapping BMP different variations on these standard image file formats or a vendor proprietary RAW image format. The image file format may allow for the addition of image meta data to an image file in an industry standards exchangeable image file format EXIF or in some vendor proprietary meta data format.

The image file may then be stored in available device storage such as RAM or flash memory and displayed on display . As will be described in detail further below in order to minimize consumption of potentially scarce memory resources on communications device the captured image may be transmitted from communications device to an Image Repository.

Still referring to operating system software used by the main processor is typically stored in a persistent store such as flash memory . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operating system specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM for processing by main processor .

The communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the communication device .

The communication device may be a battery powered device and may include a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In some embodiments the battery may be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the communication device . The battery may be used to power all components and modules in the communication device including the camera module and associated camera logic .

The main processor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of various software applications on the communication device . A subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the communication device during its manufacture.

The software applications may include a messaging application . The messaging application can be any suitable software program that allows a subscriber or user of the communication device to send and receive wireless text communications. Various alternatives exist for the messaging application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in local storage such as flash memory of the communication device or in some other suitable storage element in the communication device . In an alternative embodiment some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the communication device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the communication device communicates with. In an embodiment the messaging application may include a Message List user interface that is configured to allow a user to see a list of message objects i.e. email messages in a convenient list form. This will be described in detail further below.

The software applications may also include a GPS map application for providing geographic navigation and location coordinates for geotagging objects. GPS map application may be configured to operatively connect to GPS subsystem to receive GPS latitude and longitude coordinates for a current position of the communication device . GPS map application may also store scalable maps of various geographic regions in order to show the current position of communication device on the map. As well the GPS map application may be configured to obtain latitude and longitude location coordinates by allowing a user to select a position on the GPS map.

Still referring to communication device may execute an Image Applications Module that may be operatively integrated with camera module camera logic main processor RAM display and various other modules and components to provide various image application functions for the images captured by the camera module . Image Applications Module may include various sub modules such as an Image Upload Module B an Image Resizing Module C a Message Integration Module D and an Image Geotagging Module E. These various sub modules may interact with each other and with other application modules such as the messaging application Internet browser module address book module GPS map module etc. in order to perform various functions. Image Applications Module and its sub modules will be described in more detail further below.

The communication device may further include a device state module an address book a Personal Information Manager PIM and various other modules . Additional software applications may also be loaded onto the communication device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or other device subsystem .

Now referring to shown is an illustrative front view of a handheld mobile communication device that may provide a suitable operating environment. As shown the communication device may include a display a keyboard and other input or navigation means such as a trackball . The display may be configured to display various screens allowing the user of device to view screen outputs from the various software applications including the image applications . Display may also be configured to provide a touch sensitive screen input in response to a prompt or query displayed on display . The communication device may further include a camera lens that may be used to capture an image as described above with reference to . In an embodiment the integrated camera may provide a camera lens on the back of the communication device such that a user may use the display as a camera viewfinder for framing an image.

Now referring to shown is a schematic block diagram of an illustrative network environment in which various embodiments of the invention may be practiced. As shown network environment may include a device server operatively connected to the handheld mobile communication device via a wireless carrier network . An Internet Service Provider ISP server may also be provided in the network environment such that a user of device may access the Internet from the device .

In an embodiment the Internet may provide access to an Image Repository . Membership to use the Image Repository may be free or may be by paid subscription for example. The Image Repository may also be accessible by a third party that has membership to the Image Repository . As well the Image Repository may be accessed from other handheld mobile communication devices B within wireless carrier network or from other compatible communication devices C with access to Internet .

Now referring to shown are illustrative user interfaces in accordance with various embodiments. First referring to shown is an illustrative integrated camera user interface screen A displaying an illustrative image IMG00027 captured by the integrated camera e.g. by camera module and camera logic as previously described . As shown the camera user interface A may include icons such a camera mode icon A a delete image icon A a crop image icon A a mail image icon A and an images folder icon A.

Referring to shown is a camera user interface screen B now including a Send . . . pop up menu B. In this illustrative example the Send . . . pop up menu B includes a number of menu options including Send as Email B Send as MMS Multimedia Messaging Service B and Send To Image Repository B e.g. where the Image Repository may be an online image repository such as Flickr for example . These Send . . . options will be described in more detail further below.

Now referring to shown is a user interface screen D with an option settings menu D for the Send to Image Repository option in which records of images uploaded to an Image Repository may be integrated into a Message List. The Message List may be a chronological listing of different types of objects that may include for example email messages message status reports telephone call records etc. This Message List integration will be described in more detail further below.

Now referring to shown is a user interface screen E with a Send to Image Repository window E in which a number of text entry fields are provided to allow the user to add descriptive information such as Title Description and Tags . Furthermore the Send to Image Repository window may include various other options such as a geographic Location field D a Privacy setting D and an image Resize to setting D. These various settings and features will be discussed in more detail further below.

Now referring to shown is a user interface screen G with an illustrative Send to Image Repository screen G with an Enter Address pop up window G. For example in order to obtain geographic coordinates by address a user may fill out one or more of the following fields Address G City G State Province G and Country G. Alternatively shows a user interface H with an illustrative example of an address list H from which a target address H may be selected. With the specification of an address or the selection of a target address from a list the corresponding geographic coordinates may be obtained from a GPS mapping application e.g. GPS map module . This feature will be described in more detail further below.

Now referring to shown is a user interface screen J with an illustrative list of location Favorites J from which a favorite location J may be selected for the purposes of obtaining the corresponding geographic coordinates. This feature will be described in more detail further below.

Now referring to shown is a user interface screen K with an illustrative Send To Image Repository screen K in which the Where I Am . . . option has been selected to obtain the geographic location. In order to determine the current location the device may search for and try to acquire GPS signals using the GPS subsystem as indicated in pop up message K.

Now referring to shown is a user interface screen L with an illustrative geographic location menu in which a new location entry L e.g. Here March 14 12 04a has been added. The use of this geographic location acquired through the Where I Am . . . option will be described in more detail further below.

In an embodiment Image Applications Module may include an Image Upload Module B configured to upload images taken by integrated camera module to an Image Repository . The Image Upload Module B of photo application may either be installed as communication device is assembled and configured or may be distributed as an add on application program downloadable over a wireless carrier network or by visiting a specified Uniform Resource Locator URL on the Internet for example. As mentioned earlier image uploading may be performed if there is limited available memory on the communication device so that the user can clear the device memory as necessary in order to take more images. However image uploading may also be done if the user wishes to easily share images with other users.

In an embodiment at block B the Image Upload Module B may be configured to automatically display an image upload user interface upon capture of an image using the integrated camera module . For example as illustrated above in the Image Upload Module B may display a Send . . . menu B from which a Send To Image Repository menu item B may be selected.

In another embodiment the Image Upload Module B may also be configured to display send menu B with the Send To Image Repository menu item B preselected as the default image upload option. With this default option preselected the user would only need to confirm the selection e.g. with the click of a trackball or a key from keyboard in order to initiate the image upload process.

In an alternative embodiment as shown in the Image Upload Module B may also be accessible from various other menus such as a context menu C which may be made available when a user selects a predefined context menu button from a particular user interface screen. The context menu C may again include a Send to Image Repository option as shown which when selected may open another user interface screen window E such as is shown in .

The operation of the Image Upload Module B will now be described in more detail. In an embodiment the operation of Image Upload Module B may enter a first pre authorization state where the Image Upload Module B has been downloaded and installed but never associated with an account on an Image Repository . In this pre authorization state no image uploads have been performed and no successful interaction has occurred with the Image Repository application programming interface API . In this state the user may have attempted to authorize her account but would have been unsuccessful as there is no information or authorization token on the communication device that is associated with the Image Repository . No personal information is stored in the Image Upload Module B at this time and will not be until the Image Repository account authorization procedure is successfully completed. Thus at block B method B may initiate an account authorization process to gain access to the Image Repository.

At block B method B may configure the Image Upload Module B to initiate access to an account on the Image Repository . By way of example there may be a number of ways in which a user may initiate an Image Repository account authorization procedure 1 the user may select a context menu option to Send To . . . the Image Repository 2 the user may attempt to check account usage for his Image Repository account 3 the user may click on an Enter Authorization Key menu option from the Image Repository context menu.

In an illustrative embodiment a user interface for account authorization provided on communication device may be configured to interact with the Image Repository to create an authorization token for storage on communication device . This authorization token stored on communication device may then be used in every subsequent communication between the Image Repository and the communication device . As an illustrative example if the Image Repository is Flickr the authorization token may be used to identify which Flickr account the communication device should be interacting with. The authorization token may be encrypted using a persistent content encoding function and may be stored in this encoded form on the communication device .

Next at block B once a communication device has a valid authorization token to upload images to the Image Repository method B may configure the Image Upload Module B with the selected image upload settings. All Image Repository application programming interface API interactions may then be possible and all API methods may be called.

As an illustrative example of upload settings the Image Upload Module B may be configured to upload only non protected image files of a supported image file type e.g. GIF JPG JPEG PJPEG TIFF PNG RIM PNG BMP WBMP . Image files may be protected for example if there is an enterprise IT policy not to allow uploads of images from enterprise issued communication devices . In the case of a protected image the Image Upload Module B functionality as described herein may be largely curtailed.

As noted earlier the Image Upload Module B may be initialized from a Send To Image Repository menu option located in a context menu. The context menu may be accessible from various software applications to provide Send As . . . or Send To . . . menu options when the user clicks the corresponding context menu button on communication device . By way of example the menu options may include Send As Email and Send As SMS and Send To Image Repositories .

Next at block B method B may configure the Image Upload Module B to allow the user to specify the viewing privileges required to view any images uploaded by the user to the Image Repository . For example the user may specify that the uploaded images are for the private use of the user only. Alternatively the user may specify that the images may be shared within a defined group of users or shared with all other Image Repository users.

In an embodiment the Image Upload Module B may be available from a number of different applications such as a camera application for accessing and controlling the camera module an image file explorer for reviewing image files stored on communication device an email attachment service for including image files as email attachments and possibly other software applications provided on communication device . Thus as will be appreciated the Image Upload Module B may be associated with image files themselves and not with any specific software application .

In an embodiment the authorization token may be stored on the communication device until explicitly deleted by the user. If a user has decided that he or she no longer wants the communication device to be able to interact with the Image Repository this may be accomplished by selecting an Authorization Token Delete option from a context menu for example. Upon selecting the Authorization Key Delete option the authorization key may be removed from the communication device effectively disassociating the communication device from the Image Repository account. Further interaction with the Image Repository may then be prevented without activation of a new Image Repository account. If an attempt is made to activate a new account the account authorization process described above may be initiated once again.

In an embodiment the Image Upload Module B may be configured to provide users with the ability to add descriptive information to an image before uploading. The descriptive information may include a title a caption tag words or phrases or other information that may be associated with the image. As an illustrative example entering Snow Storm Waterloo Cold in a Tag field may result in the following tags a Snow Storm b Waterloo c Cold. In an embodiment the descriptive information may be stored together with the image on local storage on the communication device and may also be uploaded with the image and stored on an Image Repository to be accessed by the user or by other users with appropriate viewing privileges . The descriptive information may be optional and if not provided by the user need not be stored or displayed. Thus at block B method B may configure the Image Upload Module B to provide a user interface to allow a user to add descriptive information about an image to be uploaded. Method B may then proceed to block B where upon receiving user instructions the image may be uploaded using the selected upload settings.

In another embodiment the user s image uploads to the Image Repository account may be recorded on the communication device in a Message List as will be discussed in detail further below. In this case a unique identification token may be saved with each Message List object associated with the Image Repository so that the unique identification token may be used in a URL linking to an image file stored in the Image Repository . Until the Message List object is deleted the unique identification token may be stored with it to keep a pointer to the image stored in the Image Repository . Thus at block B method B may configure the Image Upload Module B to obtain a URL link to each uploaded image thus associating the unique identification token with each uploaded image. Method B may then end.

Deactivating an Image Repository account may not necessarily remove the user s upload history e.g. as recorded in a Message List . Rather the upload history may be configured to persist in the Message List on the communication device until deleted by the user. Account deactivation may also occur if a second communication device is associated with the Image Repository account. In this case the first communication device may automatically be deactivated.

Thus in an aspect of the invention there is provided a method of uploading an image file to an image repository from a mobile handheld communications device having an integrated camera comprising upon determining capture of an image using the integrated camera automatically initiating an image upload module configuring the image upload module to display an image upload user interface having user selectable image upload settings and upon receiving user instructions uploading the image file to the image repository with the selected image upload settings.

In an embodiment the method further comprises preselecting default upload settings in the image upload user interface.

In another embodiment the method further comprises initiating account authorization for the communications device to access the image repository.

In another embodiment the method further comprises associating the image upload module only with non protected image files of a specified image type.

In another embodiment the method further comprises providing as one of the user selectable upload settings viewing privileges for the image file to be uploaded to the image repository.

In another embodiment the method further comprises configuring the image upload module to provide a descriptive field in the image upload user interface for allowing a user to add descriptive information about the image file to be uploaded to the image repository.

In another embodiment the method further comprises configuring the image upload module to obtain a URL link to the uploaded image file.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a system for uploading an image file to an image repository from a mobile handheld communications device having an integrated camera comprising means for automatically initiating an image upload module upon determining capture of an image using the integrated camera means for configuring the image upload module to display an image upload user interface having user selectable image upload settings and means for uploading the image file to the image repository with the selected image upload settings upon receiving user instructions.

In an embodiment the system further comprises means for preselecting default upload settings in the image upload user interface.

In another embodiment the system further comprises means for initiating account authorization for the communications device to access the image repository.

In another embodiment the system further comprises means for associating the image upload module only with non protected image files of a specified image type.

In another embodiment the system further comprises means for providing as one of the user selectable upload settings viewing privileges for the image file to be uploaded to the image repository.

In another embodiment the system further comprises means for configuring the image upload module to provide a descriptive field in the image upload user interface for allowing a user to add descriptive information about the image file to be uploaded to the image repository.

In another embodiment the system further comprises means for configuring the image upload module to obtain a URL link to the uploaded image file.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided data processor readable medium storing data processor code that when loaded onto a mobile handheld communications device adapts the device to perform the methods as described above.

While illustrative embodiments have been described above it will be appreciated that various changes and modifications may be made. More generally the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims.

