---

title: Child carrier
abstract: A child carrier consisting of an adult harness and child harness. The adult harness has an adjustable adult belt with cooperating interlocking closure members to secure the belt around the waist of an adult and adjustable shoulder straps secured to the belt. In some embodiments one end of the shoulder strap is secured to the adult belt by a center strap, secured at approximately the center of the back of the belt, by an adjustable connector. The other end of the shoulder straps can be adjustably affixed to a connector strap that is affixed to said adult belt adjacent to said child foot support member. A child foot support member has a center brace and footrests, preferably hingably attached to either side of the center brace which is secured to the adult belt. The child harness consists of an adjustable child belt dimensioned to fit around the body of the child with releasable securing members at each end. Child shoulder straps have a first end affixed to the child belt and a second end that interlocks with receiving members on the adult belt.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08733602&OS=08733602&RS=08733602
owner: 
number: 08733602
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070731
---
This application is a conversion of provisional application Ser. No. 60 834 531 filed on Jul. 31 2006 from which it claims priority.

Many back and front carriers are available for young children and infants. These carriers are generally similar to topless backpacks that provide leg holes for the child s legs with or without frames. However the prior art has not addressed the older child who is still light enough to be carried on the back of a person yet can support themselves in a standing position.

The disclosed child carrier enables an older child to be comfortably carried on the back of an adult in a convenient and safe manner.

The disclosed child carrier consists of an adult harness and child harness. The adult harness has an adjustable adult belt with cooperating interlocking closure members at each of its open ends to secure the belt around the waist of an adult and at least one at least one shoulder strap with each end of each strap secured to the belt. In some embodiments one end of the shoulder strap is secured to the adult belt by a center strap secured at approximately the center of the back of the belt by an adjustable connector. The other end of the shoulder straps can be adjustably affixed to a connector strap that is affixed to said adult belt adjacent to said child foot support member.

A child foot support member is secured to the adult belt. The child foot support member has a center brace and footrests preferably hingably attached to either side of the center brace. The footrests can also have a non skid material cover. In some embodiments side rails can be affixed to the footrests to maintain a child s foot in position.

In some embodiments a carrying bag can be attached to the child foot support and or pockets added to the back of the adult belt or child belt.

The adult harness further comprises a second part of a locking member to receive a locking member on the child shoulder strap.

The child harness consists of an adjustable child belt dimensioned to fit around the body of the child with releasable securing members at each end. Child shoulder straps have a first end affixed to the child belt and a second end with a first part of a locking member that interacts with the second part of the locking member on the adult harness.

While the present invention may be embodied in many different forms a number of illustrative embodiments are described herein with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as providing examples of the principles of the invention and that such examples are not intended to limit the invention to preferred embodiments described herein and or illustrated herein.

It is advantageous to define several terms before describing the invention. It should be appreciated that the following definitions are used throughout this application.

Where the definition of terms departs from the commonly used meaning of the term applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided below unless specifically indicated.

For the purposes herein the term child carrier shall refer to any device that enables a child to be more easily carried by an adult or larger child without using the person s hands.

For the purposes herein the term securing mechanism shall refer to any device for attaching one item to another item. This can include but is not limited to snaps screws rivets snap clips stitching adhesives buckles or snap locks.

For purposes herein the term adjustment mechanism shall refer to any type of mechanism that enables the length adjustment of an object such as a belt strap tie or harness. An adjustment mechanism can also include a rigid telescoping mechanism.

For the purposes herein the term closing mechanism refers to any mechanism that securely and releasably maintains to objects together such as a snap lock belt buckle hook and loop knot or clip.

For the purposes herein the term hinging refers to any mechanism that provides flexible support in a first plane while being substantial rigid in a second plane 90 degrees to the first plane.

The adult harness has a waist support that is placed around the waist of the adult . Shoulder straps are used to provide additional support and to prevent the waist support from angling away from the back of the adult . In this embodiment the center strap extends from approximately the center of the waist support and is then connected to a first shoulder strap and a second shoulder strap which then extend over the shoulders of the adult . Both the first shoulder strap and second shoulder strap should be padded for comfort. In the illustrated embodiment the first shoulder strap and second shoulder strap are connected in the front to first connector strap and second connector strap . The connector straps and can be unpadded and narrower than the shoulder straps and . It is at this junction that additional length adjustment members can be provided. The connector straps and are connected to the padded belt on each side proximate the footrests . This bears weight in conjunction with hip belt itself not in region of hips. Alternatively the padded shoulder straps could extend around the to back eliminating the connector straps and . In this embodiment the distance between the first shoulder strap and the second strap is adjustable at connector . The adjustment however can be at any convenient location based upon the members used for adjustment.

In this figure the child is standing on the footrests thereby placing the weight of the child at the waist support worn by the adult .

The back of the adult belt and support brace are more clearly shown in the back view of . In order to provide comfort to the adult the belt should be heavily padded. The belt is preferably open at the front with an easy to release closing mechanism as illustrated in . It should be noted that the belt can be anyone of the many commercially available belts that are used as for example with backpacks. The belt can also have a back support to provide extra comfort and support for the adult . In this embodiment the back support is curved those will know however any design height or thickness can be incorporated and appropriate dimensioning and design in proportion to the belt will be know to those skilled in the art.

Attached to the belt is the support brace that provides the rigidity required to support the child as well as enable the child to stand securely. The footrests can vary depending upon the size of the child and the waist of the adult . The distance between footrests and the angle of the footrests relative to each other can be adjustable through the use of hinges as illustrated in . While it is preferred that the foot rests be angularly adjustable relative to the belt other types of connections can be used. For example if the footrests and associated components are made from plastic a living hinge can be used. In order to enable the support brace to conform to the waist of the adult and to comfortably distribute the weight of the child the support brace can be hinged in one or more locations at hinge points and .

The brace can be manufactured from any lightweight rigid material for example plastic wood or the like. The footrests illustrated in more detail in are either manufactured from a non skid material or provided with anti skid strips as illustrated. The footrests are preferably approximately the length of the child s foot to provide the greatest comfort. As there is a size weight range that is capable of being carried on an adult s back a single size footrest can be provided based upon an average size within the size weight range. Alternatively the footrests can be made removable and or adjustable through screws snap locks or other applicable securing mechanisms thereby enabling various sizes to be provided. As can be seen from the brace has a center support to provide stability to prevent forward or backward rotation of the footrests and to provide additional weight distribution for the adult . The footrests are attached to foot supports to provide additionally strength and stability. Although the foot supports illustrated are curved they can be of any configuration convenient for manufacture. Preferably the foot supports are hingedly connected to the center support through use of hinge members to enable the footrests to be angled to a comfortable position for both the adult and child . The hinge members can be standard hinges self hinges or any other appropriate members that will provide the flexibility support and sturdiness required. The center support and the foot supports are affixed to the belt through any means appropriate to the material being used that will provide the required stability and adhesion. Additionally the supports can be provided with a mechanism to prevent outward rotation of the footrests . For example the support can be adjustably fixed to the belt by means of a strap that is connect to the belt and the supports .

If so desired the back of the belt can have various pockets or other add ons such as the pencil holders illustrated in . Alternatively pockets can be added to the child s underarm support .

The placement of the foot of the child on the footrest is illustrated from a side view in . In this FIG. a side rail is shown maintain the foot on the footrest . It should be noted that although the side rails are illustrated herein as circles placed near the heel portion of the footrests the side rails can be any configuration as well as extend the length of one or more sides of the footrests . As the footrest is affixed to the belt and proportioned the same as the footrest the positioning of the footrests in relationship to the back of the adult is the same in both embodiments. One example of the height H of the belt proximate the footrest is also illustrated in this Figure.

In other embodiments the foot placement can be shifted forward and the footrests can be offset to such that the plane of the footrest is normal to the line of the child s leg.

The closing mechanism illustrated herein is a clip lock however other mechanisms for securing the waist support around the user s waist can be used as is also the case for other components that are releasably interconnected. The securing mechanism is secured to one or more belt adjustment straps and illustrated in which permit the length of the belt to be adjusted. The belt adjustment straps and enable the user to size the belt more evenly distribute the pressure over the back of the adult and prevent buckling of the belt . Each of the adjustment straps and are secured at one end directly to the belt . The adjustment straps and are then looped through the adjustment securing mechanism and . The adjustment mechanisms and are secured to the belt . Although the adjustment straps illustrated herein are two straps it should be noted that a single straps can be used on each side and affixed individually to a single securing mechanism.

If the child is not standing on the footrest he she but is hanging the child is supported under the arms by support . In such a case the weight of the child is borne completely by the straps and . As can be noted the child is substantially lower on the back of the adult held in place by the underarm support . This position permits little freedom of movement since all of the support straps are at maximum extension as for example when the child is sleeping. In normal use when the child is standing on the footrests the vertical pressure on the underarm support is reduced or eliminated permitting the child to use the slack in the connection between the underarm support and the shoulder straps and .

Aspects features and or advantages of various embodiments will be further appreciated in view of the following description in conjunction with the accompanying figures. Various embodiments can include and or exclude different aspects features and or advantages where applicable. In addition various embodiments can combine one or more aspect or feature of other embodiments where applicable. The descriptions of aspects features and or advantages of particular embodiments should not be construed as limiting other embodiments or the claims.

While illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described herein the present invention is not limited to the various preferred embodiments described herein but includes any and all embodiments having equivalent elements modifications omissions combinations e.g. of aspects across various embodiments adaptations and or alterations as would be appreciated by those in the art based on the present disclosure. The limitations in the claims e.g. including that to be later added are to be interpreted broadly based on the language employed in the claims and not limited to examples described in the present specification or during the prosecution of the application which examples are to be construed as non exclusive. For example in the present disclosure the term preferably is non exclusive and means preferably but not limited to. In this disclosure and during the prosecution of this application means plus function or step plus function limitations will only be employed where for a specific claim limitation all of the following conditions are present in that limitation a means for or step for is expressly recited b a corresponding function is expressly recited and c structure material or acts that support that structure are not recited. In this disclosure and during the prosecution of this application the terminology present invention or invention may be used as a reference to one or more aspect within the present disclosure. The language present invention or invention should not be improperly interpreted as an identification of criticality should not be improperly interpreted as applying across all aspects or embodiments i.e. it should be understood that the present invention has a number of aspects and embodiments and should not be improperly interpreted as limiting the scope of the application or claims. In this disclosure and during the prosecution of this application the terminology embodiment can be used to describe any aspect feature process or step any combination thereof and or any portion thereof etc. In some examples various embodiments may include overlapping features. In this disclosure the following abbreviated terminology may be employed e.g. which means for example. 

