---

title: Quasi-compact range
abstract: An antenna method and system to implement a quasi-compact range technique/technology in which a reflector antenna is used to produce a test field within a test region at a quasi-compact range, which is within a near-field of the reflector antenna but further from the reflector antenna than a compact range of the reflector antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07965228&OS=07965228&RS=07965228
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 07965228
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071105
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract number FA8802 04 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to antennas and in particular to using a reflector antenna to produce a test field at a quasi compact range.

The far field pattern of an antenna is its response to uniform plane wave illumination at various incident angles. Three distinct approaches exist for measuring an antenna s pattern. The oldest approach is to illuminate the antenna with a distant source. However a high gain antenna requires an excessive separation from the source. A second approach referred to as near field sampling measures the field amplitude and phase distribution within the near field of the antenna and mathematically transforms these measurements to obtain a far field pattern. This approach requires accurate positioning of a probe and limits the angular range of the calculated patterns. The third approach referred to as a compact range uses the collimated near field close to the aperture of a large offset reflector or lens as a test field. This approach requires a larger compact range antenna than that being tested and design attention to scattering components that can degrade measurement accuracy.

It would be helpful to be able to provide an antenna range design that produces test fields having sufficient uniformity for antenna testing using the near field of a conventional reflector antenna. It would be helpful if such an antenna range design also limits multipath degradation as well as provides high measurement sensitivity.

Conventional compact ranges use a reflector antenna s near field to produce the plane wave illumination needed to measure a second antenna under test AUT . The quasi compact range technique described herein uses a conventional reflector antenna at a greater range separation than conventional compact ranges but still within the reflector s near field. Its illumination allows antenna evaluations at smaller range separations than the AUT s far field distance and allows modification of a current far field range with a reflector range antenna to measure larger test articles than normally acceptable.

The quasi compact range technique preserves many advantages of a standard compact range including reduced multipath and high measurement sensitivity that result from the collimated near field of the illuminating reflector antenna. Additionally in an example embodiment a conventional reflector antenna is used without requiring edge treatments to reduce diffraction effects that would distort the desired uniform test fields illuminating the test article.

The near field of a conventional reflector antenna has been examined to determine the region over which the field is sufficiently uniform to illuminate a second antenna for test purposes. Simulations indicate that a range length longer than that found in a conventional compact range provides an adequate test zone illumination. Furthermore it has been observed that the test field uniformity can be improved by defocusing the reflector s feed slightly.

Experience with a four foot prime focus parabola operating at 18 GHz illustrates this technique. The measured quiet zone fields compare favorably with calculated values using the GRASP Gravitational Radiation Analysis and Simulation Package codes. Likewise measurements of a 20 diameter offset reflector antenna compare favorably with GRASP results.

In an example embodiment the quasi compact range technique described herein uses a conventional reflector antenna to illuminate the antenna under test. A distinction between this design and the conventional compact range is that the test zone is much farther from the compact range antenna than in a standard compact range.

The quasi compact range separation is large enough to allow the use of a conventional axially fed reflector rather than an offset reflector or lens. Any scattering by the feed or diffraction from reflector edges of this conventional reflector antenna is sufficiently attenuated by the separation to avoid measurement degradation. In an example embodiment the uniformity of the test field is further increased by defocusing the antenna feed.

The fields outside the test region decrease rapidly with distance from the test field. This property has two advantages over far field antenna ranges. First reflections from the surrounding facility are reduced because the facility is not illuminated. The typical conventional approach to reducing reflections involves covering the facility walls with microwave absorber which is expensive. In contrast the roll off of field strength provided by the quasi compact range significantly reduces facility reflections and therefore requirements for microwave absorber. The second advantage is increased measurement sensitivity because the near field amplitudes do not spherically spread the power density in the same way as a far field range. Thus if a given level of transmitter power is used for measurement a higher power density is provided in the test region in comparison to far field ranges.

In an example embodiment an antenna method includes using a reflector antenna to produce a test field within a test region at a quasi compact range which is within a near field of the reflector antenna but further from an aperture plane of the reflector antenna than a compact range of the reflector antenna.

In an example embodiment an antenna method includes determining a quiet zone within a near field of a reflector antenna and further away from the reflector antenna than a compact range of the reflector antenna in which a test field generated by the reflector antenna is substantially uniform and positioning a test object within the quiet zone and using the reflector antenna to measure the test object.

In an example embodiment an antenna system includes a reflector antenna configured to generate a test field within a test region at a quasi compact range which is within a near field of the reflector antenna and further away from the reflector antenna than a compact range of the reflector antenna.

This measurement technique described herein offers the ability to use conventional reflector antennas available from a variety of vendors to produce test fields for antenna measurements as well as for measuring radar targets. The reduced range and the reduced facility interactions and increased measurement sensitivity afforded by the pattern roll off afford opportunities to configure cost effective measurement capabilities.

Referring to by way of comparison a conventional offset parabolic reflector system includes an offset parabolic reflector with edge treatments to reduce diffraction and an illuminator shielded with an absorber. A positioner which in conventional fashion includes for example a stepper motor and controller is configured to control positioning of a test item article to be measured within a test region shown in dashed lines . The compact range is approximately 1 2 D wherein D is the diameter of the offset parabolic reflector .

Referring again to in an example embodiment a quasi compact range technique is used for antenna measurements and uses the near field of a conventional prime focus reflector to produce a plane wave for measuring a second antenna under test AUT . The technique permits range lengths shorter than the far field distance of the AUT and allows modification of an existing far field range with a reflector range antenna to measure larger test articles than normally acceptable.

Quasi compact range differs from a conventional compact range in that the separation distance between the reflector and the AUT is much greater for the quasi compact range. Because quasi compact range is illuminated by a conventional reflector antenna the additional range separation is required to provide sufficient spherical reduction of the blockage fields in comparison to the collimated near fields of the illuminating reflector antenna. Although this could be viewed as a disadvantage the longer range length of the quasi compact range is beneficial. Unlike a standard compact range that uses an offset reflector geometry and edge treatments to control diffraction degradation of the quiet zone fields quasi compact range uses a conventional reflector antenna geometry having a reduced implementation cost. In common with conventional compact ranges reduced susceptibility to facility multipath components results from the collimated near field as well as high measurement sensitivity and consequently measurement dynamic range that results from high quiet zone field densities in comparison to the power transmitted by the illuminator. One limitation of this quasi compact range technique however is the bandwidth over which the quiet zone fields can be maintained as will be illustrated.

The advantages of the quasi compact range technique described herein compared to far field ranges include 

Range design and quiet zone characteristics have been observed both experimentally and analytically. Measured results for a 20 inch diameter offset reflector antenna were also compared with analytic results predicted by GRASP.

An example of the quasi compact range was designed to work at 18 GHz and was used on an existing outdoor far field range that is limited to a 65 ft separation between the AUT and the range illuminator. A four foot diameter sixteen inch focal length prime focus reflector is the quasi compact range illumination that is required to produce a 20 inch quiet zone. This quiet zone is achieved 47 ft from the reflector. A conventional far field range would require a separation distance of 102 ft to produce this quiet zone requirement.

The near field of this quasi compact range s reflector was simulated with GRASP a commercially available physical optics program. A rolled edge horn was used as a feed for this reflector and its illumination of the quasi compact range reflector closely follows a Gaussian feed pattern. One design parameter to be determined was an appropriate edge illumination taper and this taper was derived through the GRASP analyses. The blockage of this prime focus feed is also included in the near field analyses.

The near field variations of the quasi compact range reflector were examined at various range separations up to the 65 foot maximum range separation permitted by the testing facility. The goal was to find a 20 inch quiet zone with less that 1 dB of amplitude variation and 22 of phase variation. This amplitude change is comparable to a conventional compact range s quiet zone the phase variation is what one would expect on a far field range at the minimum far field distance. These analyses determined that a 9 dB feed amplitude edge taper and 45.7 foot range separation produced an acceptable quiet zone. A circular open ended waveguide was then fabricated to produce the design edge amplitude taper different wall thicknesses were used to maintain the taper in both planes. The 45.7 foot separation corresponds to 8 of the far field distance of the 4 ft quasi compact range reflector and 45 of the standard far field distance for the 20 inch diameter reflector to be measured.

The near field variations of the quasi compact range predicted by GRASP are depicted in . Down range lies along the horizontal axis and cross range spans the vertical axis. The vertex of the range reflector resides at a down range and cross range coordinate of 0 0 . The figure shows that the fields remain confined to the center portion of the range 2 ft cross range and die off quickly for larger cross range values. This behavior isolated the quiet zone test region from facility reflections and provides for a high measurement dynamic range.

The peak to peak amplitude ripple shown in was determined within a 20 inch diameter sphere centered at various range separations down range from the reflector center. Within this same volume the difference between the phase of the near field and the expected phase of a plane wave traveling down range was also determined. The data plots in indicate that blockage and edge effects cause a significant amount of ripple close to the reflector. The ripple stays above 4 dB all the way out to 28 feet down range. This behavior can be predicted by applying forward scattering theory to the blockage contributions. The desired quiet zone location can be seen to be at 45.7 feet down range. The field ripple in the sphere is 0.95 dB and the phase variation is 20 .

The frequency dependence of the quiet zone variations were addressed by calculating the amplitude ripple across the quiet zone at 17 18 and 19 GHz as shown in . The amplitude is very flat at 18 GHz. However the ripple increases as the frequency deviates from its design value. For this particular example the peak to peak ripple has gone from 0.2 dB at 18 GHz to 1 dB at the other frequencies. Within the quiet zone sphere the 17 and 19 GHz amplitude variation was found to be 3.4 dB. Further the location of quiet zone with minimal ripple shifted from the 18 GHz case by 2.5 feet at 17 GHz and by 2.5 feet at 19 GHz. Also the minimum ripple for these two frequencies was determined to be 3 dB. These quiet zone changes with frequency illustrate the useful bandwidth limitations of an example quasi compact range design.

Based on these simulations measurements of the quiet zone characteristics were performed. These measurements were conducted at the 47 ft separation identified in the analyses. The quasi compact range reflector used in this investigation resulted in a feed position somewhat removed from the reflector focus. This feed displacement results in a minor asymmetry in the amplitude variation in the quiet zone. The measurements and analysis including the feed displacement in have good agreement. The amplitude ripple is 1.2 dB across the 20 inch zone and the measured phase variation is 12 .

As noted above the quasi compact range technique described herein has been investigated both analytically and experimentally. Specifically a four foot reflector antenna was analyzed at a frequency of 18 GHz. The typical far field distance for this antenna is about 585 ft. Investigation using GRASP computer code revealed that a distance of 47 ft roughly 8 of the far field distance produced a test region having a cross section of 2 ft. An axially feed 4 ft reflector antenna was then measured at this range to validate the analyses. The measured and calculated field distributions were compared in . Analyses indicate a slight defocusing of the feed increases the uniformity of the test fields. This defocusing was used in the data in .

A 20 inch offset reflector was the AUT used to evaluate the quasi compact range. During this evaluation a rolled edge feed was used for the AUT. The 20 inch offset reflector antenna was somewhat larger than the quiet zone. The projected circular aperture is 20 inches it measures 25.5 inches from top to bottom edge. When the AUT is rotated in the quiet zone to measure its pattern limited portions of the reflector can extend beyond the quiet zone. However near the AUT s main beam very little of the reflector leaves the quiet zone and diffraction effects from the feed and struts are not seen.

The range measurements were simulated using the antenna coupling feature in GRASP. The test antenna and range reflector were separated 47 feet from one another and the coupling between the two was calculated. By rotating the AUT within the quiet zone and determining the coupling the antenna pattern around the antenna was obtained as shown in . To ensure the simulation was performed correctly the same coupling algorithm was used to examine the AUT on a far field range. Both simulations were also compared to the predicted far field pattern to analytically predict the differences in different range designs. The far field range calculation was almost identical to the predicted pattern lending credence to the coupling calculation. The quasi compact range simulation gave very good results around the main beam with slight filling in of the first and second nulls.

Pattern measurements shown in were also compared to the simulated range measurements and indicated the same filling in of the nulls. The dynamic range of the measurements exceeds 90 dB.

The foregoing description of the quasi compact range technique demonstrates the technique s usefulness in extending the utility of a far field range to measure larger test articles in the same physical space. The range s positive qualities include high dynamic range reduced facility interactions and low implementation cost.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of the example embodiments above numerous modifications and or additions to the above described embodiments would be readily apparent to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the scope of the present invention extend to all such modifications and or additions.

