---

title: Securely locating a device
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable medium for securely locating a mobile device. In one implementation, a method is provided. The method includes receiving first information from a first device, where the first information is usable to identify a geographic location of the first device. The first information is verified as originating from the first device. A first request for the geographic location of the first device is received, where the first request includes second information associated with a user associated with the first device. The geographic location of the first device is provided to the user at a second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977294&OS=08977294&RS=08977294
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08977294
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071112
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 979 034 filed Oct. 10 2007 and entitled Securely Locating a Device the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Modern mobile devices can provide a number of functionalities such as audio or video processing telephony service and network connectivity for e mail and web browsing for example. Mobile device users often depend on the multiple applications installed on these mobile devices to complete tasks in their professional lives and to provide entertainment in their personal lives. Users may rely on their mobile devices to store and access large amounts of content e.g. image audio and video files and sensitive information e.g. financial data or personal information . The loss or theft of a mobile device can create security concerns for a user and can be particularly troublesome or upsetting especially if data stored on the device is sensitive or irreplaceable.

A technique method apparatus and system are described to securely locate a mobile device. In general in one aspect a method is provided. The method includes receiving first information from a first device where the first information is usable to identify a geographic location of the first device. The first information is verified as originating from the first device. A first request for the geographic location of the first device is received where the first request includes second information associated with a user associated with the first device. The geographic location of the first device is provided to the user at a second device.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. The second information associated with the user can be an identifier of the user. After verifying that the first information originated from the first device the geographic location of the first device can be stored in a repository and in response to receiving the first request the second information can be used to index into the repository to retrieve the geographic location of the first device. In response to receiving the first request a second request can be transmitted to the first device for an updated geographic location of the first device and third information can be received from the first device where the third information is usable to identify an updated geographic location of the first device. Third information can be received from the first device where the third information identifies the first device and is used to verify that the first information originated from the first device. The first information and the third information identifying the first device can be received from the first device in a Domain Name System DNS message. Alternatively the first information can be included in a text message that is digitally signed with a private key of the first device. Verifying that the first information originated from the first device can further include authenticating the digitally signed text message. A map of the geographic location of the first device can be provided to the user at the second device. The first device can be a mobile device that includes a telephony application. The first device can be a mobile device that includes a multi touch sensitive display. It can be determined if the geographic location of the first device is outside a region specified by the user and if the geographic location of the first device is outside the region data stored on the first device can be caused to be erased where the data to be erased is specified by the user.

Other implementations are disclosed including implementations directed to methods systems and computer readable mediums.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. A mobile device user can log into a mobile service application with a user identifier to view a last known geographic location of the user s missing mobile device. The mobile service application can present to the user on a host device the last known geographic location of the missing mobile device as an address geographic coordinates or as a location on a map. The user can request that the mobile device transmit an updated location to the mobile service application for presentation to the user on the host device.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services or secure device location services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM general packet radio service GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display which can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user. In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a music processing device as indicated by the music player object a video processing device as indicated by the video player object a digital photo album device as indicated by the photos object and a network data communication device for online shopping as indicated by the store object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the music player object the video player object the photos object and store object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface of mobile device can include additional display objects such as the Web object the calendar object the address book object the clock object the calculator object and the settings object described above with reference to mobile device of . In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include other display objects such as a Web video object that provides functionality for uploading and playing videos on the Web. Each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user. In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and a volume control device sensor devices and wireless communication subsystems and and a port device or some other wired port connection described above with reference to mobile device of .

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . A location service can for example perform the process for securely locating the mobile device or and providing the location to a user on a host device as described in reference to . For example the location service can receive from the mobile device or location information pushed or pulled automatically e.g. at scheduled intervals. Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device or is intended to operate. For example a mobile device or may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device or may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device or on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device or can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device or can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device or may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions as described in reference to . The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device or may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device or and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device or . When the mobile device or is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device or including a security process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services for applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display objects shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone music player video player photos and store .

In the example shown the access device includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing the transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access device which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . In some implementations a device activation process can be used as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 447 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Device Activation and Access which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc. Another example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPhone product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the access device using for example a USB cable. In other implementations the mobile device and access device include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the security process and mobile services daemon of the connection status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access device e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the security process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access device by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access device will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access device to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the security process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access device can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service location service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

The process begins by receiving first information from a first device e.g. a mobile device where the first information is usable to identify a geographic location of the first device . The first information can be received by a location service e.g. location service of . The geographic location of the first device can be determined or estimated from the first information which can include information about for example Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids IP addresses or URLs. In some implementations the first information identifies a geographic location of the first device and includes for example coordinates in a geographic coordinate system e.g. latitude and longitude values based on a reference regional or world geodetic datum such as the World Geodetic System WGS 84 currently used for GPS.

In some implementations a user of the first device can activate a location transmission feature of the first device if by default the first device does not transmit information identifying its geographic location. For example an owner of a mobile device e.g. mobile device of can enable the mobile device to transmit its geographic location by activating a location transmission feature when the user initially sets or updates user preferences for the mobile device e.g. using the mobile services application of . In various implementations the preference settings can include a setting for when location transmission should occur such as periodically e.g. on a predetermined schedule or when triggered by certain events e.g. when the mobile device is turned on or an update location request is received . The location transmission can occur as a background process of the mobile device e.g. without being initiated by the user and or without the user s awareness. In some implementations the preference settings can include settings for enabling tracking of mobile device activity e.g. telephone call activity and web browsing activity as will be described in more detail below.

In some implementations the preference settings can include settings allowing a user to specify that one or more actions e.g. deleting data or deactivating functionality should occur if the geographic location of the mobile device is determined to be outside a particular region or inside a particular region. For example the user can specify that all sensitive information e.g. financial data and personal information stored on the mobile device is erased if a location transmission from the mobile device indicates that the mobile device is outside the user s home country or in one or more specified countries.

In some implementations the first device transmits the first information identifying its geographic location over one or more wired or wireless networks. For example the mobile device of can communicate its geographic location to a designated server of the location service over the wireless network e.g. an EDGE network the gateway and the wide area network . In another example the mobile device of can communicate its geographic location to the designated server of the location service over the wide area network and the access device which can be coupled to the mobile device through a physical connection e.g. a USB cable or a wireless connection e.g. a Wi Fi link . In some implementations the first device can also transmit the first information through another device on a personal area network e.g. a Bluetooth network .

Returning to the process the first information is checked to verify that the first information originated from the first device . In some implementations additional information identifying the first device can be received from the first device. In some implementations the additional information identifying the first device is a unique serial number or identifier for the first device e.g. an IMEI stored in the mobile device memory of . The information identifying the first device can be used to verify that the information identifying the geographic location originated from the first device.

In some implementations an identifier for the first device and the geographic location of the first device are received from the first device in a Domain Name System DNS message sent using for example TCP IP or UDP protocols. In particular a mobile device e.g. the mobile device of can transmit its IMEI and geographic coordinates in a DNS record e.g. a TXT record of a DNS message to a designated server of the location service . The transmission can occur when for example the mobile device is powered on and attempts to register on a network e.g. a telecommunications carrier network or with a mobile service e.g. the mobile services application of . The origin of the first information identifying the geographic location can be verified as the first device identified by the identifier.

In some implementations the first information identifying the geographic location can be transmitted by the first device as a text message that is digitally signed with a private key of the first device. For example a mobile device e.g. the mobile device of can transmit its geographic coordinates in a digitally signed SMS message to a phone number e.g. a designated phone number of the location service over the wireless network of . The contents of the SMS message can be signed with a private key of the mobile device allowing the location service to verify that the geographic coordinates originated from the mobile device by authenticating the digitally signed SMS message. Once the SMS message is authenticated an identifier for the mobile device e.g. an IMEI can be determined for example based on the private key of the mobile device.

In some implementations the first information identifying the geographic location can be transmitted by the first device as an HTTP request. For example when a user of the mobile device is web browsing e.g. after invoking a web browsing application by touching the Web object of a web browser running on the mobile device can send an HTTP request to a designated URL e.g. for the location service with the first information identifying the mobile device s geographic location appended to the designated URL. The HTTP request can be sent as a background process and or in parallel with a user initiated HTTP request. In some implementations the HTTP request to the designated URL includes an identifier for the mobile device to allow the origin of the geographic location to be verified.

If the first information fails the origin verification check No branch of decision the first information can be discarded . This may occur for example if the text message was not properly signed with the private key of the first device.

If the first information is verified as originating from the first device Yes branch of decision the geographic location of the first device can be stored in a repository . For example in some implementations the location service maintains a relational database or registry e.g. MySQL of device information including device identifiers e.g. IMEI and device location information e.g. geographic coordinates . Using this database or registry the location service knows for example that a particular device with a particular identifier associated with a particular user identifier had a particular geographic location at a particular time on a particular date.

A request for the geographic location of the first device is received where the request includes second information associated with a user where the user is associated with e.g. the owner of or a registered user of the first device . In some implementations the second information associated with the user can be an identifier of the user. The request can be sent by the user from a host device e.g. a personal computer and received by a location service e.g. location service of . For example after the user realizes that the user s mobile device is lost or stolen the user can use a host device to log in using a user identifier to a mobile service application e.g. the mobile service application of to request to view the last known geographic location of the user s mobile device. In response the mobile service application can send a request to the location service to retrieve the last known geographic location of the mobile device. In some implementations the request includes the identifier for the first device in addition to the second information associated with the user.

If the user is associated with the first device e.g. is the owner or a registered user of the first device the second information associated with the user e.g. the user identifier can be associated in the repository with the identifier for the first device. The second information can be used to index into the repository to retrieve the geographic location of the first device in response to receiving the request . For example for each user identifier the repository can have a different entry record or table with stored information about the associated first device including the geographic locations and the dates and times they were received from the first device.

In some implementations in response to receiving the request for the last known geographic location a second request is transmitted to the first device for an updated geographic location of the first device. For example if the amount of time that has passed since the last known geographic location was received exceeds a predetermined threshold e.g. 2 hours 12 hours 24 hours etc. the location service can request that the first device updates its geographic location. In some implementations the location service requests that the first device continues to update its geographic location for example on a scheduled basis or when triggered by certain events. If the first device is presently powered on when the location service sends the request the first device can transmit an updated geographic location or information usable to identify an updated geographic location for example by embedding the updated geographic location in a DNS message or a text message as described above. The updated geographic location can be received and its origin verified before the updated geographic location is stored as the last known geographic location in the repository. Alternatively if the first device is presently powered off when the location service sends the request the location service can abort the update request and or reschedule the request to be sent when the first device is next powered on.

The geographic location e.g. the last known geographic location of the first device is provided to the user at a second device e.g. the host device . In some implementations one or more of an address geographic coordinates and a map of the geographic location are provided to the user.

In some implementations the process can be performed without being requested by the first device user. For example if both a mobile device and a user associated with the mobile device e.g. the owner or a registered user of the mobile device are missing law enforcement officials can request that the process be performed to determine the last known geographic location of the missing mobile device in the hope of also finding the user associated with the missing mobile device.

In some implementations the device location interface includes a selectable user interface element e.g. button that allows the user to enable activity tracking on the mobile device. The user may wish to enable activity tracking if the user suspects that the missing mobile device is being used by someone e.g. a person who found borrowed or stole the mobile device . For example information gained by enabling activity tracking may be used by law enforcement officials to help determine the identity of the person who presently has the mobile device.

User selection of the activity tracking element can trigger the location service e.g. the location service of to send a request to the mobile device to begin tracking device activity and sending information about the activity to the location service. For example the location service can send a message e.g. as a remote access request to the security process running on the mobile device of to begin monitoring one or more applications residing on the applications layer of the mobile device software stack of . Information about applications activity e.g. information about phone calls web browsing e mails etc. can be gathered by the mobile device and sent to the location service to be provided to the user.

The example illustrates a call activity interface displayed on the screen of the display device of the host device. In some implementations the user can access the call activity interface through the mobile service application of . The call activity interface includes the user identifier and the record of call activity . The record of call activity can include a log of calls initiated by the mobile device a log of calls received by the mobile device the dates and times of the calls and the mobile device s last known geographic locations at the times of the calls. In some implementations the record of call activity includes other information such as call durations. The last known geographic locations can be displayed for example as addresses or geographic coordinates. In some implementations the last known geographic locations are presented as selectable links which when selected can trigger the display of a map with the selected location indicated such as the map of . The record of initiated and received calls may be used by law enforcement officials to help determine the identity of the person who presently has the mobile device.

The example illustrates a web activity interface displayed on the screen . In some implementations the user can access the web activity interface through the mobile service application of . The web activity interface includes the user identifier and the record of web browsing activity . The record of web browsing activity can include a log of addresses for the web sites visited the dates and times of the site visits and the mobile device s last known geographic locations at the times of the site visits. In some implementations the web site addresses are displayed as URLs or IP addresses. In some implementations the record of web browsing activity includes other information. The last known geographic locations can be displayed as addresses or geographic coordinates. In some implementations selection of one of the displayed last known geographic locations can trigger the display of a map with the selected location indicated such as the map of .

The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

