---

title: Pedestrian route production
abstract: As a pedestrian travels, various difficulties can be encountered, such as traveling through an unsafe neighborhood or being in an open area that is subject to harsh temperatures. A route can be developed for a person taking into account factors that specifically affect a pedestrian. Moreover, the route can alter as a situation of a user changes; for instance, if a user wants to add a stop along a route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090532&OS=08090532&RS=08090532
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08090532
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 115 entitled ROUTE MONETIZATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 127 entitled FEDERATED ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 139 entitled DESTINATION AUCTIONED THROUGH BUSINESS OF INTEREST .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 151 entitled GENERATIONAL INTELLIGENT NAVIGATION SYNCHRONIZATION OR UPDATE .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 167 entitled SOCIAL NETWORK BASED ROUTES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 182 entitled ROUTE TRANSFER BETWEEN DEVICES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 188 entitled ADDITIONAL CONTENT BASED ON INTENDED TRAVEL DESTINATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 206 entitled AUTOMATIC SPLICES FOR TARGETED ADVERTISEMENTS .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 219 entitled ROUTE GENERATION BASED UPON ACTIVITY CRITERIA .

The subject specification relates generally to route production and in particular to route generation for a pedestrian.

Computer driven automobile route planning applications are utilized to aid users in locating points of interest such as particular buildings addresses and the like. Additionally in several existent commercial applications users can vary a zoom level thereby enabling variation of context and detail as a zoom level of a map is altered. For example as a user zooms in on a particular location details such as names of local roads identification and location of police and fire stations identification and location of public services such as libraries museums and the like can be provided to the user. When zooming out the user can glean information from the map such as location of the point of interest within a municipality state providence and or country proximity of the point of interest to major freeways proximity of the point of interest to a specific city and the like.

Furthermore conventional computer implemented mapping applications often include automotive route planning applications that can be utilized to provide users with directions between different locations. Pursuant to an example a user can provide an automotive route planning application with a beginning point of travel and an end point of travel e.g. beginning and ending addresses . The route planning application can include or utilize representations of roads and intersections and one or more algorithms to output a suggested route of travel. These algorithms can output routes depending upon user selected parameters. For instance a commercial route planning application can include a check box that enables a user to specify that she wishes to avoid highways. Similarly a user can inform the route planning application that she wishes to travel on a shortest route or a route that takes a least amount of time as determined by underlying algorithms . Over the last several years individuals have grown to rely increasingly on route planning applications to aid them in everything from locating a friend s house to planning cross country road trips.

The following discloses a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to disclose some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is disclosed later.

Conventional route generation systems obtain data from various sources and generate a direction set to be used by a person operating an automobile. A user commonly inputs a starting location and an intended destination in addition to travel constraints e.g. to avoid highways minimum travel time minimal travel distance or minimal gas consumption based upon inputted information a travel route is generated. However there are numerous difficulties in translating vehicle e.g. automotive route generation to pedestrian travel. For instance a pedestrian can commonly traverse terrain that is more rugged then many vehicles e.g. climbing steep and rocky hills conversely a pedestrian can become more susceptible to environmental influence such as from cold temperatures.

The disclosed innovation produces routes that are intended to be taken by a pedestrian. A gather component obtains information related to intended pedestrian travel and a generation component produces a route based upon at least part of the obtained information. Commonly the pedestrian route is produced based off security information weather information terrain information or a combination thereof. Various features can integrate with route presentment such as integrating an advertisement targeted to a pedestrian with a direction set.

A large amount of focus in route generation has focused upon vehicle route generation and little attention has been paid to pedestrian route production. Since a large number of individuals travel by vehicle application to pedestrian travel has been ignored. However there has been a long felt need for route generation towards individuals that do not commonly travel by vehicle for instance many economically challenged areas are populated with individuals that do not own motorized vehicles and generally travel by walking. In addition unexpected results can take place through practice of the disclosed innovation. As an illustration a pedestrian could arrive at a location faster than if she traveled in a vehicle by taking more direct paths yet a vehicle commonly travels much faster. Due to detailed route planning a direction set can be created that allows a user to take more diverse paths that can compensate for a general lack of speed.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification can be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It can be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to disclose concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. It is to be appreciated that various determinations or inferences made in the subject specification can be practiced through use of artificial intelligence techniques.

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for producing a travel route for a pedestrian. Various route production systems are available for a user traveling though utilization of a vehicle. However a pedestrian e.g. a person traveling in a natural manner such as walking swimming climbing etc. an individual functioning as a passenger a person riding along an escalator or elevator controlling riding in a wheelchair and the like can have specific characteristics that are different from what is considered in vehicle route planning. For example when a user travels as a pedestrian she is commonly more exposed environmental elements. If it is relatively cold outside then a pedestrian is far more likely to feel an impact then if a vehicle equipped with a heating system protected her. Moreover it can be more dangerous for a pedestrian to enter an unsafe neighborhood then a person in a vehicle since a pedestrian is more exposed and it is more difficult for her to leave an unsafe neighborhood quickly. However there are advantages to being a pedestrian traveler if a pedestrian takes an incorrect action e.g. turns down a wrong street then correction can be easier since there are commonly fewer one way pedestrian streets.

The system can produce a direction set that is specifically tailored to pedestrian travel. A gather component can obtain information related to pedestrian travel. Example information related to pedestrian travel include maps e.g. extracted from a database user history weather information crime statistics demographic information etc. Various processing can take place upon the obtained information such as ranking obtained information toward relevance in pedestrian route production.

Obtained information and metadata e.g. ranking results can transfer from the gather component to a generation component that produces a direction set for use by a pedestrian based at least part upon the obtained information. Obtained information can be analyzed and analysis results are used to create a new travel route or modify an existing travel route. The produced direction set can be outputted to a user device such as a cellular telephone personal digital assistant watch dedicated vehicle device printer etc. The produced direction set can be improved or optimized according to at least one criterion such as keeping a user safe.

The following is an illustrative example of operation of the system according to an aspect of the subject specification. Historically at 5 PM a user can walk from his office to his home on weekdays the gather component can learn this history and obtain information related to the walk e.g. paths previously taken by a user available paths user experiences upon the paths etc. . For instance the gather component can extract information from a schedule that the user is to attend his daughter s recital in several hours so it is likely he wants a quickest path. The generation component can analyze the information and construct a direction set that allows the user to take paths that take him to his home in a quickest amount of time while keeping the user relatively safe e.g. taking the user through neighborhoods with violent crime statistics below a certain threshold .

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for producing a pedestrian based route with a representative detailed gather component . The gather component collects information from various sources that can be used to create a pedestrian route. A communication component can engage with other devices to transfer information such as to send a request for information receiving information from an auxiliary source etc. Operation can take place wirelessly in a hard wired manner employment of security technology e.g. authentication and or encryption etc. Moreover the communication component can utilize various protective features such as performing a virus scan on obtained data and blocking information that is positive for a virus.

To engage a source e.g. auxiliary source a search component can be employed to locate a source that provides information that can be obtained. A source can be a database server an airway transmission in incoming electronic message etc. The search component can retain addresses e.g. Internet Protocol addresses of locations that have a history of providing quality information. Moreover the search component can identify low quality sources e.g. sources that do not provide much information that is used in route generation and block information obtainment for such identified sources. The search component can function to extract information from a source make a copy of information etc. In addition information from a plurality of pedestrians e.g. pedestrian history can be retained upon a server and extracted though use of the search component .

In addition to extracting information from auxiliary sources an interface component enables a user to input information that can be used in route production. Common data inputted by a user includes a starting location constraints e.g. not to travel over unpaved terrain intended destination and the like. The user can enter information in a number of different manners such as through a keyboard mouse stylus tablet computer microphone etc.

In one aspect a pedestrian can have a desire to engage a particular person or group of people. For example the system can be on an electronic device of a small child that has become lost from her parents. An interaction component can collect information concerning routes of other people and collected data can be used to update a route in real time such as for the child to meet with her parents. The interaction component can be bidirectional meaning it can collect route or location information of others e.g. pedestrians in vehicles etc. as well as transmit collected data or direction set information to others e.g. global transmission directed transmission etc. . Based upon this routes can be produced upon multiple devices that lead to a common meeting point.

The gather component can obtain virtually any type of information that relates to pedestrian travel so much information that operation of the system can lose performance due to tasks associated with processing the information. A filter component can limit information that passes through to a generation component that constructs a direction set. The filter component can determine information that is likely relevant and delete information that is commonly of little value this can be done at least in part through examination of previously produced routes.

Different pieces of information such as obtained information component operating instructions e.g. of the search component source location an original route etc. can be held on storage . Storage can arrange in a number of different configurations including as random access memory battery backed memory hard disk magnetic tape etc. Various features can be implemented upon storage such as compression and automatic back up e.g. use of a Redundant Array of Independent Drives configuration .

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for producing a pedestrian route with a detailed generation component . A gather component can obtain information related to pedestrian travel a generation component can produce a direction set for use by a pedestrian based at least part upon the obtained information. A substantial portion of the directions set can take a user along a route that is not maneuverable by an automobile e.g. sidewalks indoor structures rugged terrain etc. . For instance a direction set takes a user along sidewalks and occasionally the user crosses a street that can be traversed by an automobile.

Various characteristics of obtained information can be appreciated through evaluation of obtained information. An analysis component evaluates the obtained information the evaluation results are used by the generation component to produce the direction set. Evaluating can include determining importance of information to a user e.g. has a user historically cared about safe neighborhoods estimating how likely information is to change e.g. sidewalk congestion etc. Additionally the analysis component can choose if a user should reach a destination through a pedestrian route and or through a conventional route e.g. a route intended to be traveled by an automobile where the user is a driver . For example a user can be traveling to a downtown area to watch a baseball game where the user has an option to take public transportation or to drive to the game. The analysis component can process different factors such as cost of public transportation against cost of parking and determine if a pedestrian route or other route should be produced.

An artificial intelligence component can make at least one inference or at least one determination in relation to information obtainment or direction set production. For instance the artificial intelligence component can infer if a user will find a route enjoyable due to previous behavior e.g. the user walked briskly the user stopped presumably to view a scenic area or point of interest etc. and a route is produced based upon the inference. Moreover the artificial intelligence component can determine a format a pedestrian would like to receive a direction set. For example a blind pedestrian can prefer to have a direction set verbally read or printed in Braille and the artificial intelligence component can determine the preference.

Artificial intelligence component can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences and or making determinations related to applying a service e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. Methods also include methods for the capture of logical relationships such as theorem provers or more heuristic rule based expert systems.

A resolution component can be used to settle conflicts between different pieces of information where conflicting details are provided. For instance a news channel can report that there is heavy pedestrian traffic along a sidewalk while a store can publish information that few people are passing the store and offer incentives for routes to direct a user past the store. Since the store has a financial interest in sidewalk traffic store information can be considered less reliable and the resolution component can instruct the generation component to build a route based upon the news information. Decisions concerning direction set production can be placed into effect by an implementation component . Common implementations include building a new direction set altering a direction set and the like. Consistency checks can be run by the implementation component such as if multiple goals of a user are met e.g. a user wants to take a fastest route and stop to buy lunch however there is not a store selling food along a fastest route . If a check fails then the generation component can modify the route before it is produced.

Now referring to an example system is disclosed for producing a pedestrian route with a transaction component and a disclosure component . A gather component can obtain information related to pedestrian travel a generation component can produce a direction set for use by a pedestrian based at least part upon the obtained information. Production of the direction set can be based upon security information e.g. avoiding unsafe neighborhoods weather information e.g. having a user travel indoors when rain is expected or taking place terrain information e.g. avoiding non paved roads for an elderly pedestrian or a combination thereof.

Various actions take place in accordance with direction set production such as information passing between different parties. Rewards e.g. money can be exchanged between parties accounts etc. through used of a transaction component . The transaction component can perform a reward e.g. financial non financial etc. operation in relation to information obtainment or direction set production. The transaction component can perform actions to meet constraints such as debiting a user account and crediting a provider account. While fiscal amounts are commonly transacted it is to be appreciated that other commodities can be exchanged such as coupons meeting of contractual obligations e.g. canceling of a task to be performed tax credits etc.

Moreover a reward operation can take place in relation to user response to a commercial detail e.g. presented with a pedestrian route . For example an advertisement can be played that a user should stop at a highway exit for a cup of coffee. If the user takes the exit buys the cup of coffee buys a different item etc. then payments of varying amounts can be made to an advertisement hosting service.

A disclosure component can provide the direction set to the pedestrian. A non exhaustive list of disclosure components include a display screen touch screen speaker system virtual reality environment Braille production system printer etc. In addition the disclosure component can present information in multiple formats such as showing a video with audio capabilities. In addition a variety of components can operate in conjunction with the disclosure component as well as independently.

A metadata component can modify information provided with the direction set based upon contextual information e.g. a user appears to be in a hurry pedestrian request e.g. a user asking to not take a particular route a fastest way a shortest way . . . pedestrian history e.g. a user has shown a propensity to avoid particular areas or a combination thereof. The contextual information pedestrian request pedestrian history or a combination thereof can be obtained by the gather component . Moreover the disclosure component can provide the direction set with modified information to the pedestrian. The metadata component can operate prior to a pedestrian being presented a direction set as well as modify an already presented direction set. In an illustrative example a user can have a history of becoming confused and lost in subway systems. The metadata component can add information to a route when a user enters a subway system e.g. normally sign names are given with a direction set however in subways sign names and colors are given. 

In addition to information concerning a route being presented to a pedestrian an advertisement component can integrate a commercial detail with a direction set. A non exhaustive list of commercial details can include advertisements of a product or service coupon movie preview etc. For example a notice can be included in a direction set that a pedestrian can take slight detour and stop at a favorite place to receive coffee. The user can be compensated e.g. financially for being presented a commercial detail and a direction set can be altered to take a user to a location related to a commercial detail.

Now referring to an example system is shown that produces a pedestrian based route that enables a pedestrian to take advantage of public transportation and integrated usage of public transportation in a direction set. A gather component can obtain information related to pedestrian travel thus the gather component can operate as a means for collecting information related to travel.

A generation component can produce a direction set for use by a pedestrian based at least part upon the obtained information. The generation component can implement as a means for outputting a direction set based upon at least part of the obtained information the direction set includes a portion where a user travels in a natural manner e.g. such as walking swimming climbing using a manner appropriate for a disability such as riding in a wheelchair that is hand powered or electronic etc. and a portion where the user functions as a passenger e.g. traveler in a vehicle operator of a vehicle bicycle etc. . The system can configure such that at least part of the portion where the user functions as a passenger employs the user being a passenger upon public transportation e.g. public system private commercial system for movement of at least one person etc. . For example a route can have portions where a user walks drives a motorcycle and is a passenger in a taxi. The route does not have to specify a vehicle to be used such as a route taking a user to a bus stop where the user can become a passenger on a bus or obtain a taxi ride.

A public transportation database can be used to provide information concerning public transportation. Example information includes routes schedules estimated vehicle population density vehicle metadata e.g. is a particular bus running on time etc. A non exhaustive list of public transportation implementations can include airlines buses trains taxi services rickshaws ferries escalators elevators automotive pools shared rides multiple person bicycles and the like. In one example a route can be produced by the generation component that has a user walk from her home to her car drive to an airport parking deck walk from the parking deck to an airplane ride the airplane walk to meet a taxi take the taxi to a hotel and walk to a hotel counter.

Now referring to an example methodology is disclosed for performing actions towards a pedestrian based route. At action a request is collected that a route takes a user to a location such as a coffee shop e.g. any coffee shop a type of coffee shop a specific shop etc. . A coffee shop example is used throughout the methodology to highlight various aspects. For instance a user can send a text message to a friend that he would like to go to a coffee shop and the methodology can extract a request from the text message however a request can be a direct appeal from a user.

At event a request produced by a user can be evaluated. The methodology can read the text message and infer that a route should be altered taking a user to a coffee shop. Additional information can be ascertained relating to a request for instance a pedestrian can request that a coffee shop be integrated into a route immediately e.g. make a stop as soon as possible or integration to take place at anytime along a route.

A search can be performed of relevant localities within an area e.g. city limits at act . The search can be specific or general for any coffee shop for a coffee shop within a certain distance for a specific coffee shop chain etc. A search can be localized e.g. searching a database for locations as well as broad e.g. attempting to communicate with nearby coffee shops and other implementations.

Based upon locations established at action a specific location can be chosen at act e.g. selecting one coffee shop to integrate upon a route from several located coffee shops . Various criteria can be used to select a specific location ranging from user criteria as well as contextual reasons. For instance different coffee shops can offer different coupons for a user to stop at a shop. User history can be evaluated to infer a coupon that would be most beneficial to a user e.g. a coupon on a user s favorite coffee drink and evaluation results can be used to select a location.

At act a database of paths can be analyzed in order to determine how a pedestrian can reach a specific location as well as reach an intended destination from the specific location. In order for a pedestrian to reach a selected location paths are taken to connect a user location to a route. A path database can be analyzed to determine pedestrian friendly paths that can be taken. In addition to available paths metadata can be gained such as safety of paths expected traffic path views e.g. if a user is a tourist then she can desire to travel along routes that are considered more scenic or more historical and the like.

A pedestrian based route can be produced that can include travel to a specific location at action . Commonly the produced route is outputted to a user through a disclosure device. According to one embodiment a considerable portion of the route takes the pedestrian along at least one path that is not maneuverable by an automobile. Moreover the produced route can be based upon security information weather information terrain information or a combination thereof. It is to be appreciated that action can configure to follow directly into action without act or .

At block a financial transaction can take place in accordance with the methodology . Money can be exchanged between parties due to functions of the methodology . For instance if a particular coffee shop is selected then the coffee shop can be obliged to pay a company running the methodology for the selection. Money can be debited from an account of the coffee shop and credited to a user account. While money is discussed it is to be appreciated non monetary rewards can change between parties.

Now referring to an example methodology is disclosed for collecting a request from a pedestrian that a route includes a waypoint e.g. a non final stop a destination etc. to a general location such as action of . Commonly a generation location is a type of location such as a coffee shop however it can be a coffee shop of a certain company a particular shop e.g. the coffee shop on Main Street etc. A connection can be established e.g. electronic coupling between a user input interface and a processor that allows for a request to be communicated at event .

A request can include harmful characteristics such as viruses and operations to prevent damage can take place at action . A scan can take place upon an incoming request and safety measures can be implemented such a quarantining dangerous data. If dangerous data is discovered then a message can be sent that a supplemental request should be made. Security operation can include authentication for authorizing access to restricted areas.

At block data can be processed related to the request to ascertain characteristics of the request. Processing request data such as learning a time a request was made enables specific actions to take place based upon the request. Information learned from the processing can be retained in storage.

A check takes place to determine if a request is authorized. For instance a pedestrian can travel upon a military base where access at many areas is restricted. If a pedestrian requests that a waypoint be included that takes the pedestrian to a munitions depot then the check can determine if the pedestrian is allowed to receive information concerning a depot.

If a request is authorized then request metadata can be transferred at act . Commonly the information is transferred to a location that can perform production of a pedestrian based route. An unauthorized request can lead to request cancellation at event and a message can be sent to a requesting party stating that a request was denied. In an alternative embodiment while a request is authorized it can be possible that a request cannot be complied e.g. a location requested does not exist . A message can be transferred to a user stating that a request cannot be followed as well as why it is not being followed.

Now referring to an example methodology is disclosed for producing a pedestrian based route that includes a waypoint to a specific location based upon the collected request such as action of . According to one embodiment route metadata can be collected at event when a route exists and is to be modified. However it is to be appreciated that a route can be created without used of a previous route. Specific location data such as a coffee shop to be visited can be obtained at event which can originate from action of . Moreover at action path information is gathered commonly originating from a map.

A variety of calculations can take place in accordance with the methodology at event . For instance multiple locations can be chosen and event selects a best location base upon user interest convenience etc. In addition calculations can be performed that discover a path that can take a user to a specific location e.g. at least on path from a current location to a specific location . Multiple routes can be established and weighted against one another to determine a route that should be presented to a user.

A check can take place to determine if a route can be made that includes the specific location. For example a user can request to go to restaurant chain that is out of business therefore a route cannot be created. The check can determine if a route can be made in general as well as if a route can be realistically made. For instance if a nearest requested location is several hundred miles away then it can be considered unrealistic for a pedestrian to travel such a long distance.

If no route can be made e.g. reasonably be made then an error message can be sent at block . The error message can be interactive such as asking a user if she would like to make another request. At event if a route can be made then an appropriate route is created. Creation of a route can include building a new route as well as modifying an existing route.

For purposes of simplicity of explanation methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter were shown and described as a series of blocks. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor multiprocessor or multi core processor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed subject matter can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with the subject specification. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the specification for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction among several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Additionally it should be noted that one or more components could be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components could also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject specification but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject specification are possible. Accordingly the subject specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

