---

title: Systems, methods, and programs for voter information initialization and consolidation
abstract: Systems, methods, and programs allow for the secure compilation of vote data from electronic voting machines at a voting location. Systems, methods, and programs provide the secure electronic transmission of the vote data to a central location for tabulation. provide a vote data consolidation function that can collect and consolidate vote data from a plurality of types or generations voting machines. Systems, methods, and programs provide a vote data transmission function that can communicate with a server in a central tabulation headquarters to securely transmit vote data that has been consolidated from a plurality of voting machines. Systems, methods, and programs provide a voter initialization function, wherein, after establishing a voter's identity, a voter authorization card may be initialized for the voter to gain access to a voting machine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092922&OS=09092922&RS=09092922
owner: SMARTMATIC INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09092922
owner_city: St. Michael
owner_country: BB
publication_date: 20071212
---
Related technical fields include electronic voting machines and in particular electronic voting machines that initialize consolidate and or transmit voter and or vote information to a central facility for tabulation.

Electronic voting machines are increasingly used in elections at a world level particularly direct recording electronic DRE voting machines. DRE voting machines record votes by means of a ballot display provided with mechanical or electro optical components that can be activated by the voter. A DRE voting machine interacting with the voter receives accepts and processes vote data by means of a computer program and records votes in a memory.

In 1998 the Federal Election Commission issued performance and test standards for DRE systems. The 1990 FEC Standards encompass DRE voting systems that record votes by means of a ballot display provided with mechanical or electro optical devices that can be actuated by the voter that process the data by means of a computer program and that record voting data and ballot images in memory devices such as for example data cartridges internal memories or external memories. The disclosed DRE produces a tabulation of the voting data as a hard copy or stored in a removable memory device.

Further in conventional DRE voting systems it is often necessary to remove a memory device from the DRE machine and physically transport the memory devices to a central location for tabulation which requires that the memory devices are collected by personnel identified marked packed and subject to manual control.

In many instances in a given election a State or a County makes use of their existing inventory of voting equipment which can include machines of various types from different vendors and having disparate technological levels. In fact varied voting machines are employed concurrently even in the same precinct. Optical Scanning voting machines usually produce cartridges where precinct counts are stored and likewise said cartridges need to be collected and physically taken to a tallying facility in order to be processed.

However there are concerns with respect to the integrity of electronic voting data. In particular electronic data may be subject to tampering during the time needed to physically transport the memory devices from remote locations to a central tabulating location potentially leaving no evidence of the tampering. As a result there is a need to ensure the integrity of the results of electronic voting thus ensuring that only the valid data and all the valid data as stored in each and every voting machine is brought securely reliably and timely to a central tallying headquarters.

Because conventional DRE voting systems require the memory devices are subject to such manual controls there is great concern with respect to the integrity of the data. For example there exists a risk of damage loss misidentification delay or other mistakes occurring before the vote data stored therein can be tabulated.

Furthermore there is no standard with respect to the software or type of memory devices used in various DRE voting systems. Accordingly it may be difficult to utilize DRE machines for an election particularly when the election may utilize more than one type of DRE machine or different generations of DRE machines from the same vendor or even DRE machines from different vendors. Using different voting machines may cause difficulties in smoothly initializing voter data consolidating the recorded vote data from the various voting machines at a particular voting location and or consolidating the vote data from various voting locations at a central headquarters.

Accordingly various exemplary implementations of the broad principles described herein provide systems methods and programs that allow for the secure compilation of vote data from electronic voting machines at a voting location and the secure electronic transmission of the vote data to a central location for tabulation.

Various exemplary implementations provide a vote data consolidation function that can collect and consolidate vote data from a plurality of types or generations voting machines.

Various exemplary implementations provide a vote data transmission function that can communicate with a server in a central tabulation headquarters to securely transmit vote data that has been consolidated from a plurality of voting machines.

Various exemplary implementations may also provide an enhanced vote data transmission function in order to receive partial vote data transmitted from other locations having a plurality of voting machines each and after such vote data has been consolidated to transmit the consolidated vote data to a central tabulation headquarters.

Various exemplary implementations provide a voter initialization function wherein after establishing a voter s identity a voter authorization card may be initialized for the voter. After the authorization card is initialized the voter may use the card to gain access to a voting machine.

Finally various exemplary implementations provide enhanced security by implementing systems methods and programs that manage an password based authorization mechanism. Such security mechanism would operate at the voter initialization and at the vote consolidation levels. In each case an input password is compared with the stored authorization password and if the input password equals the stored password the result will be that the intended function will be allowed either a voter card that uniquely identifies a corresponding voter will be initialized the voter card subsequently allowing access to a voting machine or a data structure of the input vote data will be recognized and based on the data structure of the vote data the vote count data from the input vote data will be extracted and the vote count data will be added to the vote tally data.

The vote card interface may be an interface that allows a vote card to be inserted and may allow for data to be read from an or written onto the vote card. The vote card interface may be for example a removable memory interface such as for example a USB interface a SmartCard interface a compact flash interface a microdrive interface a non volatile memory interface a magnetic card reader writer and or any other now known or later developed interface capable of reading and or writing onto a removable memory.

The controller may be for example a CPU and or MPU and may also include a RAM and or ROM. The controller may be for example a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a PLD PLA FPGA or PAL or the like. The controller may enable the overall control of the system .

The input may allow a user to input data into the system and may include for example a touch screen a keyboard and or any other now known or later developed combination of mechanical and or electronic components enabling a user to input data into the system .

The output may allow information to be output to a user of the system and may include an LCD display a CRT display one or more LEDs and or any other now known or later developed mechanical or electrical device capable of visually or audibly outputting information to a user of the system .

The memory may for example store information for use by the system and may include for example any appropriate combination of alterable volatile or non volatile memory or non alterable or fixed memory. The alterable memory whether volatile or non volatile can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic RAM a floppy disk and disk drive a writable or re rewriteable optical disk and disk drive a hard drive flash memory or the like. Similarly the non alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM an optical ROM disk such as a CD ROM or DVD ROM disk and disk drive or the like.

As shown in the memory may be physically functionally and or conceptually divided into for example a voter initialization authorization password portion a maintenance authorization password portion an election information portion and or a software portion .

The voter initialization authorization password portion may store for example a preset voter initialization authorization password allowing a user access to one or more of the voter initialization functions of the system . The maintenance authorization password portion may store for example a maintenance authorization password allowing a user access to one or more of the voter initialization functions of the system . The election information portion may store election information including for example information relating to a particular election for which the system may be used. The software portion may store for example software and or instructions executable by the controller to enable various functions of the system .

The password comparing circuit routine or application for example under control of the controller may compare for example a string of characters and or numbers input on the input with a string of characters and or numbers stored in either the voter initialization authorization password portion or the maintenance authorization password portion . The password comparing circuit routine or application may be implemented by for example a circuit within an ASIC or using a FPGA a PLD a PLA or a PAL or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements and or may be fully or partially implemented by the controller and or software stored in the software portion .

The card initialization circuit routine or application for example under control of the controller may initialize data on a vote card in the vote card interface by reading and or writing data onto the vote card. The data written onto the vote card may include for example unique information identifying the particular voter and or information permitting access to a voting machine. The card initialization circuit routine or application may be implemented by for example a circuit within an ASIC or using a FPGA a PLD a PLA or a PAL or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements and or may be fully or partially implemented by the controller and or software stored in the software portion .

Thus in addition to one or more of the elements described above the system may physically functionally and or conceptually include for example one or more memory interfaces one or more communicators a printer a vote consolidating circuit routine or application and or an encryption decryption circuit routine or application .

The memory interface s may be for example structure capable of interfacing with a memory outside of the system such as for example a memory cartridge of a voting machine. The memory interface s may each be configured to interface with a different type of voting machine cartridge or may be configured to each interface with more than one type of voting machine cartridge. Furthermore one or more of the memory interface s may be configured as a receiver that communicates with an external memory over a network such as for example a wired network a wireless network e.g. a CDMA 1X network an intranet an extranet and or the Internet.

The communicator s may be for example transmitters and or receivers that allow the system to communicate information. For example the communicator s may be a transmitter that communicates vote tally data consolidated by the system to a central server. The communicator s may only be a transmitter and may prevent the receiving of data in order to prevent unauthorized access to the system . The communicator s may communicate over a network such as for example a telephony network a wired network a wireless network e.g. a CDMA 1X network an intranet an extranet and or the Internet. The communicator s may transmit data such as vote data and or passwords which as been encrypted by an encryption decryption circuit routine or application described below .

The printer may for example allow the system to print data including for example vote tally data audit data election information and or any other information relating to the operation of the system . The printer may include for example a dot matrix printer an inkjet printer a thermal printer a laser printer and or any other now known or later developed device capable of making marks on a substrate.

In addition to for example the maintenance authorization password portion and the software portion discussed above the memory may physically functionally and or conceptually include a vote consolidation authorization password portion an election identification information portion a vote tally data portion and or an audit data portion .

The vote consolidation authorization password portion may for example store a preset vote consolidation authorization password allowing a user access to one or more of the vote data consolidation functions of the system . The election identification information portion may for example store data indicative of a particular election for which the system is consolidating data. For example the election data may be compared with election data stored on a particular external memory to determine whether vote data on the external memory should be added to the tally data for the particular election. The vote tally data portion may for example store a tally of the various vote data that has been input into the system and or approved by the system for consolidation. The audit data portion may for example store audit data. Audit data may be for example a record of each successful unsuccessful authorized and or unauthorized operation requested of rejected by and or performed by the system .

The vote consolidating circuit routine or application for example under control of the controller may input data representing one or more votes cast on an electronic voting machine and may alter vote tally data in a manner to reflect the addition of the one or more votes cast to a consolidated total of all votes processed by the system . The vote consolidating circuit routine or application may be implemented by for example a circuit within an ASIC or using a FPGA a PLD a PLA or a PAL or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements and or may be fully or partially implemented by the controller and or software stored in the software portion .

The encryption decryption circuit routine or application for example under control of the controller may encrypt one or more of the maintenance authorization password the software the vote consolidation authorization password the election identification information portion the vote tally data and or the audit data stored in the memory for secure transmission via the communicator s . Implementation of this encryption decryption routine is equally feasible either in an independent circuit or as part of application software. Said encryption decryption circuit routine or application for example under control of the controller may also decrypt one or more of a maintenance authorization password software a vote consolidation authorization password election identification information the vote tally data and or audit data received via the communicator s for storage in the memory and or for consolidation by the vote data consolidating circuit routine or application.

Finally it should be appreciated that the system may also include each element of the system . In such a case the system would be capable of for example both voter initialization and vote data consolidation.

In operation to perform voter initialization the systems may be used in conjunction with a method for initializing voter information. shows an exemplary method for initializing voter information. The exemplary method may be implemented for example by one or more components of the above described system s . However even though the exemplary structure of the above described system s may be referenced in the description of the exemplary method it should be appreciated that the structure is exemplary and the exemplary method need not be limited by any of the above described exemplary structure.

As shown in operation of the method begins in step S where an optional voter initialization authorization password is input. For example a user may input a voter initialization authorization password into the input thereby for example preparing the system for use during voter initialization. Next in step S the input voter initialization authorization password is compared with stored voter initialization authorization password. For example under control of the controller the password comparing circuit routine or application may compare the input voter initialization authorization password e.g. stored in the RAM of the controller or a memory portion of the password comparing circuit routine or application with the preset voter initialization authorization password stored in the voter initialization authorization password portion of the memory . Operation continues to step S.

In step S it is determined whether the input voter initialization authorization password matches the stored voter initialization authorization password. For example under control of the controller the password comparing circuit routine or application may indicate based on the comparison whether the input voter initialization authorization password matches the preset voter initialization authorization password. If the passwords do not match step S NO operation continues to step S where an error is output. For example if the password comparing circuit routine or application determined that the passwords do not match under control of the controller a message may be output on the output indicating that the input password was incorrect and operation returns to step S. If the passwords match step S YES operation continues to step S.

In step S it is determined whether a vote card initialization is required. For example an election official user that has successfully entered a voter initialization authorization password may want to initialize a vote card for a voter. Accordingly the user may insert a vote card into the vote card interface . Then for example to determine whether initialization is required the controller may determined whether a vote card has been inserted into the interface . If initialization is required step S YES e.g. a vote card has been entered into the interface operation continues to step S.

If initialization is not required step S NO e.g. no vote card has been entered into the interface operation continues to step S. In step S it is determined whether a terminating input has been received. For example a user may input a command on the input indicating that the voter initialization process is complete e.g. the election is complete and no more vote cards need to be initialized. Alternatively a terminating input may be considered to be received when for example the system remains idle for a predetermined amount of time. If such a terminating input is received step S YES operation of the method ends. If such a terminating input is not received step S NO operation of the method loops back to step S.

In step S the vote card is read. For example under control of the controller the vote card is read by the interface . Then in step S it is determined whether the card is valid for example whether it has been corrupted tampered with or is otherwise unsuitable for initialization. If the vote card is not valid step S NO operation continues to step S where an error is output and operation returns to step S. For example under control of the controller a message may be output on the output indicating that the card is invalid. If the vote card is valid step S YES operation continues to step S.

In step S the vote card is initialized. That is for example under control of the controller the initialization circuit routine or application may write data onto the vote card that will allow a particular voter to access a voting machine and vote. Operation of the method returns to step S.

In operation to perform vote consolidation the system may be used in conjunction with a method for initializing voter information. shows an exemplary method for consolidating voter information. Again this exemplary method may be implemented for example by one or more components of the above described system s . However even though the exemplary structure of the above described system s may be referenced in the description of the exemplary method it should be appreciated that the structure is exemplary and the exemplary method need not be limited by any of the above described exemplary structure.

As shown in operation of the method begins in step S where an optional vote consolidation authorization password is input. For example a user may input a vote consolidation authorization password into the input thereby for example preparing the system for use during vote consolidation. For example during a particular election according to this exemplary method the system may be used to consolidate the vote data recorded by a plurality of voting machines at a particular voting location. Also for example during a particular election according to this exemplary method the system may be used to consolidate the vote data that is to be transmitted to a central vote tabulation headquarters from a plurality of voting locations.

Next in step S the input vote consolidation authorization password is compared with a stored vote consolidation authorization password. For example under control of the controller the password comparing circuit routine or application may compare the input vote consolidation authorization password e.g. stored in the RAM of the controller or a memory portion of the password comparing circuit routine or application with the preset vote consolidation authorization password stored in the vote consolidation authorization password portion of the memory . Operation continues to step S.

In step S it is determined whether the input vote consolidation authorization password matches the stored vote consolidation authorization password. For example under control of the controller the password comparing circuit routine or application may indicate based on the comparison whether the input vote consolidation authorization password matches the preset vote consolidation authorization password. If the passwords do not match step S NO operation continues to step S where an error is output. For example if the password comparing circuit routine or application determined that the passwords do not match under control of the controller a message may be output on the output indicating that the input password was incorrect and operation returns to step S. If the passwords match step S YES operation continues to step S.

In step S it is determined whether vote consolidation is required. For example an election official user that has successfully entered a vote consolidation authorization password may want to consolidate the votes recorded by a plurality of voting machines and or consolidate vote data transmitted from a plurality of voting locations. Accordingly the user may insert a memory e.g. a memory cartridge from a voting machine into a memory interface . Alternatively a transmission may be received by communicator s . Either of these actions for example may indicate to the controller that vote data consolidation is required. If vote consolidation is required step S YES operation continues to step S.

If vote consolidation is not required step S NO operation continues to step S. In step S it is determined whether a terminating input has been received. For example a user may input a command on the input indicating that the vote consolidation process is complete e.g. all of the data for the election has been consolidated. That is for example at a particular polling location all of the cartridges for each of the voting machines have been consolidated or at election headquarters all of the voting data for each polling location has been received and consolidated. If such a terminating input is received step S YES operation of the method ends. If such a terminating input is not received step S NO operation of the method loops back to step S.

In step S vote data is read. For example under control of the controller vote data from a memory interface may be read from a voting machine s memory or received from a transmission. Because the system may be capable of reading vote data from different types of voting machines this step may include first recognizing the data structure of the vote data prior to reading the vote data in order to determine the most effective way to read the vote data.

Then in step S it is determined whether the vote data is valid or not for example whether it has been corrupted tampered with or belongs to a different election and or is otherwise unsuitable for consolidation. The validity of the vote data may be determined through various methods for example by comparing election information associated with the vote data with election information stored in the election identification information portion by decrypting the data according to a predetermined encryption process by checking an authorization code associated with the vote data by determining the origin of the data by evaluating metadata associated with the vote data and or by any other now known or later developed method of determining the validity of electronic data.

In step for example when a cartridge or other type of memory is inserted into the memory interface the controller may unit first validate that the cartridge memory structure is the proper structure depending on the type of cartridge memory. If this structure validation is successful then the controller may for example perform a syntactic validation on a configuration file e.g. an XML file contained in the cartridge. The controller may then for example determine whether election identification information stored on the memory cartridge data matches the election identification information stored in the election identification information portion . After one or more of these validations take place and are successful the vote data may be considered valid.

If the vote data is not valid step S NO operation continues to step S where an error is output and operation returns to step S. For example under control of the controller a message may be output on the output indicating that the vote data is invalid and will not be added to the vote tally data. If the vote data is valid step S YES operation continues to step S.

In step S the vote data is added to the vote tally data. That is for example under control of the controller the vote data consolidating circuit routine or application may read the vote data received from a memory interface and add the vote data to the consolidated vote data stored in the vote tally data portion of the memory . Operation of the method returns to step S.

It should be appreciated that if the system is being used to according to the above described exemplary method to consolidate vote data at a polling location upon consolidation of the data e.g. step S YES under control of the controller the vote tally data may be transmitted by a communicator to a central voting headquarters for further consolidation by another system or any other system or method.

As discussed above the system may be capable of communicating data via communicator s which has been consolidated and or which is to be further consolidated at central location. In order to ensure the integrity of such communicated data the data may be encrypted and or decrypted by the encryption decryption circuit routine or application prior to being transmitted.

As shown in operation of the method begins in step S where an optional vote consolidation authorization password is input. For example a user may input a vote consolidation authorization password into the input thereby for example preparing the system for use during consolidated vote data transmission. It should be appreciated that a password different than the vote consolidation authorization password may also be used.

The description of steps S S is identical to steps S S. Accordingly a description thereof is omitted. Furthermore if the vote consolidation authorization password is used and has been previously entered by a poll worker in order to consolidate vote data e.g. in step S operation of this method may omit steps S S and may begin at step S.

In step S it is determined whether vote data transmission is required. For example at the close of voting and after consolidation of the vote data at a polling location an election official user may want to transmit the consolidated vote data to a central location for further consolidation. Accordingly if consolidated vote data transmission is required step S YES operation continues to step S.

If consolidated vote data transmission is not required step S NO operation continues to step S. In step S it is determined whether a terminating input has been received. For example a user may input a command on the input indicating that the consolidated vote data transmission is complete e.g. all of the consolidated vote data for the particular polling location has been successfully transmitted. That is for example at a particular polling location all of the consolidated vote data been successfully transmitted. If such a terminating input is received step S YES operation of the method ends. If such a terminating input is not received step S NO operation of the method loops back to step S.

In step S the consolidated vote data is retrieved. For example under control of the controller the consolidated vote data is retrieved from the vote tally data portion . That is all of the data consolidated by the system e.g. according the exemplary method of may be retrieved from the vote tally data portion in preparation for transmission to a central location. Furthermore in addition to or instead of the consolidated vote data the audit data may also be retrieved for transmission to the central location. A data package to be transmitted may include a generated hash file and a data file for instance an XML file. The hash file may be used to ensure that transmitted package has not been tampered with. The XML file may include for example an ID of the system the consolidated vote data and or an audit log.

Then in step S the data package data is encrypted for example to insure its integrity during transmission to the central location. For example under control of the controller the retrieved consolidated vote data may be encrypted by the encryption decryption circuit routine or application . The encryption algorithm used may be for example Rijndael. Rijndael is a symmetric key cipher that operates on fixed length groups of bits termed blocks with an unvarying transformation adopted as an encryption standard by the US government. However any other now known or later developed encryption method may be used to encrypt the data package.

In step the data package including the consolidated vote data is transmitted. The data package may be transmitted for example through a CDMA 1X network using a secure transmission protocol known as Secure HTTP S HTTP . S HTTP is designed to transmit individual messages securely and has been approved by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF as a standard. However any other now known or later developed secure transmission method may be used to transmit the data package.

In step S it is determined whether a rejection is received. For example if the data package is received by the central location and rejected by the central location a message indicating the rejection may be sent back to the system . For example as discussed below with respect to the central location may receive the package through a network and attempt to validate the ID of the system which is also stored in the central location s database. If there is a match the central location may proceed to decrypt the package with the hash and produce another hash from the received package. The central location may then compare the two hashes. If the two hashes match there is a high probability that the package was transmitted intact. Then the central location may perform a syntactic validation of the XML file and extract the consolidated vote data and or an audit log. Importantly if any of these steps fail the received data may be considered corrupt and a rejection may be sent to the system .

If a rejection is received indicating that the data package was rejected by the central location step S YES operation continues to step S where an error is output and operation returns to step S. For example under control of the controller a message may be output on the output indicating that the transmitted consolidated vote data was rejected by the central location. If no rejection is received step S YES operation returns to step S.

In step S the vote data is added to the vote tally data. That is for example under control of the controller the vote data consolidating circuit routine or application may read the vote data received from a memory interface and add the vote data to the consolidated vote data stored in the vote tally data portion of the memory . Operation of the method returns to step S.

As discussed above the system may be capable of receiving vote data via communicator s for consolidation or for further consolidation at a central location. As discussed above in order to ensure the integrity of such communicated data the data may be encrypted and or decrypted by the encryption decryption circuit routine or application prior to being transmitted.

As shown in operation of the method begins in step S where a vote consolidation authorization password is input. For example a user may input a vote consolidation authorization password into the input thereby for example preparing the system for use during consolidated vote data transmission. It should be appreciated that a password different than the vote consolidation authorization password may also be used.

The description of steps S S is identical to steps S S. Accordingly a description thereof is omitted. Furthermore if the vote consolidation authorization password is used and has been previously entered by a poll worker in order to consolidate vote data e.g. in step S operation of this method may omit steps S S and may begin at step S.

In step S it is determined whether a vote data transmission has been received. For example at the close of voting and after consolidation of the vote data at a polling location an election official user may have transmitted consolidated vote data from a polling location to the central location for further consolidation by system . As discussed above the data package may be transmitted for example through a CDMA 1X network using S HTTP or by other methods.

If vote data has not been received step S NO operation continues to step S. In step S it is determined whether a terminating input has been received. For example a user may input a command on the input indicating that the reception and consolidation of vote data is complete e.g. all of the consolidated vote data for the particular polling location has been successfully transmitted to and received by the system and then further consolidated by the system. If such a terminating input is received step S YES operation of the method ends. If such a terminating input is not received step S NO operation of the method loops back to step S. If vote data has been received step S YES operation continues to step S.

In step S the received vote data is at least partially decrypted. For example under control of the controller the received vote data may be input to the encryption decryption circuit routine or application from the communicator s . Then under control of the controller the encryption decryption circuit routine or application may decrypt the received data. For example as discussed above the decryption algorithm used to decrypt the encrypted data will correspond to the encryption algorithm used to encrypt the data may be for example Rijndael or another decryption algorithm.

Then in step S the decrypted vote data is validated for example to insure its integrity during transmission to the central location. As discussed above the received data package may include a generated hash file and an XML file. The hash file may be used to ensure that transmitted package has not been tampered with. The XML file may include for example an ID of the system the consolidated vote data and or an audit log.

During validation the controller may compare the sending system ID with for example pre approved sending system IDs stored in the election identification information portion . If the sending system ID matched a stored ID the controller may then control the encryption decryption circuit routine or application to decrypt a remainder of the encrypted data if it was not fully decrypted. Then continuing validation the controller may produce its own hash based on the received package. The controller may then compare the produced hash with the hash included in the data package. If the two hashes match there is a high probability that the package was transmitted intact. Finally the controller may perform a syntactic validation of the XML file contained in the data package. Importantly if any of these validation steps fail the received data may be considered corrupt.

In step S it is determined if the received data is valid. That is based on the validation if the data is corrupt step S NO operation continues to step S where a rejection is sent back to the system that sent the data. If the data is not corrupt step S YES operation continues to step S.

In step S the decrypted and validated data is consolidated e.g. according to the method of That is for example under control of the controller the vote data consolidating circuit routine or application may read decrypted vote data and add the vote data to the consolidated vote data stored in the vote tally data portion of the memory . Operation of the method returns to step S.

While various features have been described in conjunction with the examples outlined above various alternatives modifications variations and or improvements of those features and or examples may be possible. Accordingly the examples as set forth above are intended to be illustrative. Various changes may be made without departing from the broad spirit and scope of the underlying principles.

According to one or more of the above examples it is possible to securely compile vote data from electronic voting machines at a polling location and securely transmit the vote data to a central location for tabulation. This may be done using a same system at the polling location and the central location.

According to one or more of the above examples vote data can be collected and consolidated from a plurality of types or generations of voting machines.

According to one or more of the above examples vote data can be transmitted from other locations having a plurality of voting machines each. After such vote data has been consolidated it may be further transmitted to the consolidated vote data to a central tabulation headquarters.

According to one or more of the above examples after establishing a voter s identity a voter authorization card may be initialized for the voter. After the authorization card is initialized the voter may use the card to gain access to a voting machine.

One or more of the above examples provide enhanced security by implementing systems methods and programs that manage a password based authorization mechanism. Such security mechanism would operate at the voter initialization and at the vote consolidation levels. In each case an input password is compared with the stored authorization password and if the input password equals the stored password the result will be that the intended function will be allowed either a voter card that uniquely identifies a corresponding voter will be initialized the voter card subsequently allowing access to a voting machine or a data structure of the input vote data will be recognized and based on the data structure of the vote data the vote count data from the input vote data will be extracted and the vote count data will be added to the vote tally data.

