---

title: Image processing system
abstract: A system and method for image processing including providing access to image information, such as document images and image indices, and providing various functions pertaining to the image information is provided. The system and method can facilitate access to financial document images in a banking environment. The system and method can be used by, among others, banking institution personnel to view and update financial document image information. The system and method can be used to perform image processing from disparate image information repositories of any number of kinds of image information, including images of checks, trust documents, wills, share certificates, loan document, powers of attorney, mortgage documents, insurance policies, signature cards, fingerprints and customer photos. The system and method of the present invention may be applied to any industry including without limitation banking, insurance, legal, and financial industries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07636499&OS=07636499&RS=07636499
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 07636499
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070823
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority from commonly owned application Ser. No. 10 284 067 filed Oct. 31 2002 now abandoned which claims the benefit of provisional application No. 60 369 880 filed Apr. 5 2002 the contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Banking and other industries are undergoing a revolution in processing traditionally paper and other hard copy documents. For example the capture of images of various transactional documents in the banking industry provides banking institutions with an opportunity to streamline business processes and improve efficiencies. In addition the ability to view images of these captured documents offers a valuable service to all end users including bank institution customers and bank institution personnel. For example access to images is useful for fraud prevention and integration into business workflows.

In many financial institutions electronic images and other associated image information of a large number of documents especially checks have been created. This image information is available for electronic access and capable of being transmitted and processed by electronic means such as computers. However in many cases disparate image information repositories and associated systems have been provided for maintaining such image information. These disparate systems are not integrated and cannot be accessed by a variety of means. The result is that obtaining access to image information can often be among other things difficult labor intensive time consuming and error prone. For example the various systems are often incompatible and require specialized software for access to the image information. Further determining in which one or more repositories desired image information is located can involve labor intensive and time consuming searching.

Accordingly there is a need for flexible and scalable support of a wide variety of applications to access image information using for example components that are well known and proven technologies. Further there is a need for image processing systems that offer rapid access scalability and reliability. Further there is a need to integrate various disparate systems and databases and allow access thereto by a variety of means and devices. Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide improved image information processing methods and systems.

In one embodiment the present invention for the first time provides integrated access to financial image information from disparate incompatible computer systems and data repositories which may include images of checks bills invoices account statements trust documents wills share certificates loan documents powers of attorney mortgage documents insurance policies signature cards fingerprints retina scans customer photos human resource documents UCC financing statements and other financial documents.

In one embodiment access to the images can be provided to a user through a variety of means including a personal computer a telephone with a display an ATM machine an Image Viewer described herein a PDA a palmtop computer a Web enabled mobile phone a laptop computer or any other mobile computing device.

Embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for image processing including providing access to image information such as document images and image indices and providing various functions pertaining to the image information. In at least one embodiment the system and method facilitates access to financial document images in a banking environment. The system and method can be used by among others banking institution personnel to view and update financial document image information. The system and method can be used to perform image processing from disparate image information repositories of any number of kinds of image information including images of checks trust documents bills invoices account statements wills share certificates loan documents powers of attorney mortgage documents insurance policies signature cards fingerprints customer photos human resource documents UCC financing statements and retina scans. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible in which the system and method for image processing may be configured to provide image processing functionality within the scope of the present invention. The system and method of the present invention may be applied to any industry including without limitation the banking insurance legal and financial industries.

An image access server system provides a central point of contact for a client to request documents from any image information repository whether located within an organization or located elsewhere. Using the image access server system clients are able to request images from disparate image information repositories such as databases archives and folders without requiring specific knowledge of the particular image information repository or repositories where the image is available or the repository location and or repository applications needed to access the image. The image access server system is able to compile image request results from any or all relevant repositories into a single response to the client.

To support client applications which act as proxies for users the image access server system includes an exposed application programming interface API the image access API that provides an object through which image information requests can be processed. For example the image access API provides universal access to image information repositories without regard to location of the image information repositories provides an object oriented interface e.g. an interface coded in the Java programming language designed by Sun Microsystems Inc. which can be easily integrated into client applications provides an interface which insulates client applications from implementation specific requirements of the image access server system and the image information repositories and provides a reporting mechanism which enables client applications to retrieve image information access volumes and average response times.

Using the image access server system in a banking environment client applications such as online banking applications automated teller machines ATM and banking center computers can integrate images stored in image information repositories into their workflows without the need to know exactly where image information resides or specifics regarding accessing the image information.

According to at least one embodiment a particular type of client application is an image viewer. The image viewer is a Web based application and framework that provides image viewing and input capability to end users. In at least one embodiment the image viewer client application connects to the image access server system via the image access API.

The client s may be for example a personal computer provided with the capability to receive and display user interfaces included on for example HyperText Markup Language HTML formatted or Extensible Markup Language XML formatted pages provided in accordance with for example the HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP . The client s may also have the capability to transmit and receive electronic mail messages in accordance with the Simple Mail Transport Protocol SMTP . The client s may also be any personal communication device such as but not limited to a personal digital assistant or a Web enabled wireless telephone. The client s can be devices including specially developed software or employ standard configurable software such as a browser application that can operate with HTML pages JavaScript and or ActiveX code and Java applets where required.

The client types may include a PC a display telephone an ATM machine an Image Viewer described herein a PDA a palmtop computer a Web enabled mobile phone a laptop computer or any other mobile computing device.

The communications interfaces may include any type of communications network and may include communications connections within and or outside an organization. In at least one embodiment the communications network may be a public network such as the Internet. Communications systems used to implement the communications networks may include but are not limited to a telephone landline based modem network a wireless network such as a cellular digital packet data CDPD network or a wireless local area network LAN . Additionally the communications network may be a private network in which information transmitted over the communications network is prevented from being readily accessible by systems or persons other than those associated with or permitted by the image access server system. The communications network may use encryption such that data transmitted on the communications network is encrypted using for example any commercially available or proprietary encryption scheme such as but not limited to 56 bit Data Encryption Standard DES 128 bit triple DES 128 bit RC4 and IDEA. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the image access server system uses HTTP connections over its communications interfaces which connections may conform to the Secure Socket Layer SSL protocol in order to provide for secure information transport for image information.

The repositories may include one or more relational databases and database management system DBMS software application such as Oracle 8 provided by Oracle Corporation for storage and retrieval of image information in accordance with the Structured Query Language SQL database format from the database. Such database management software may execute one or more stored procedures or scripts of SQL instructions operative to store or retrieve particular items of image information arranged and formatted in accordance with a set of formatting instructions. Such stored procedures are typically stored or otherwise associated with the databases. For example the database management software may execute one or more SQL stored procedures in response to a request from the image access server system to retrieve particular items of image information in a format suitable for transmission to and display by the client s using a browser software application such as for example the Internet Explorer application provided by Microsoft Corporation. The databases and their database management software may communicate with the image access server system in accordance with the Open Database Connectivity ODBC standard developed by Microsoft Corporation. Certain items of image information may be stored as encrypted information for purposes of maintaining the security of these items.

The repositories may also include one or more image information archives and an image request broker software application and or Corblet framework system for storage and retrieval of image information in accordance with an image archive format for the archive. Such image request broker software and or Corblet framework system may execute one or more procedures operative to facilitate storage or retrieval of items of image information. For example the image request broker may execute one or more procedures in response to a request from the image access server system to retrieve particular items of image information in a format suitable for transmission to and display by the client s using a browser software application such as for example the Microsoft Internet Explorer. In at least one embodiment the image request broker may be the Image Request Broker software licensed by Check Solutions a subsidiary of Carreker Corporation. The Corblet framework system for example may facilitate the establishment of objects used to retrieve particular items of image information from the image information archive. The image information archive and its image request broker software and or Corblet framework system may communicate with the image access server system in accordance with a proprietary or open communications protocol and or object architecture. For example in the case of the Corblet framework system the Corblet framework system is configured in accordance with the CORBA technology specified by the Object Management Group.

The repositories may further include one or more mainframe databases and item server software for storage and retrieval of image information in accordance with a mainframe database format for the mainframe database. Such item server software may execute one or more procedures operative to store or retrieve particular items of image information arranged and formatted in accordance with a set of formatting instructions. For example the item server may execute one or more procedures in response to a request from the image access server system to retrieve particular items of image information via various other mainframe software in a format suitable for transmission to and display by the client s using a browser software application such as for example the Internet Explorer application provided by Microsoft Corporation. The mainframe database and its item server software may communicate with the image access server system in accordance with a proprietary or open communications protocol.

Although not shown in a networked environment for use in conjunction with including or implementing the image access server system may include multiple load balanced servers load balancers back up sites and facilities for restoration of information. The networked environment may further include one or more firewalls or proxies to facilitate among other things the security and integrity of the network. The networked environment may further include one or more of the following a SSL accelerator to support secure networked communications caching servers for local higher speed serving of recently or frequently requested HTML or XML pages one or more application server clusters one or more Web server clusters one or more database server clusters persistent storage and switching devices. For example the server clusters may be used to implement the image access server system in whole or in part and the persistent storage used to hold image information. The network environment depicted in may have further interfaces not shown to one or more other networks.

In at least one embodiment the server s are one or more computers having software to provide a platform for the functions of the image access server system. In this respect and as described in more detail below the server s may include software to interact with the client s via the client communications interface and may also include software to interact with the image information repository ies via the repository communications interface. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the server s may also interact with other systems and platforms through the above described or other communications interfaces and have appropriate software therefor.

In at least one embodiment the server may be a Sun Enterprise E450 server computer provided by Sun Microsystems Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. configured to execute software instructions implementing the functions described herein. The server may include operating system instructions operable to control basic operation and control of components of the server. In at least one embodiment the operating system instructions may include the Sun Solaris 8 UNIX based operating system configured for use with the Sun Enterprise E450 server.

The server s may include application server software such as the Borland Enterprise Server software product provided by the Inprise Corporation for processing and transmission of image information including as part of HTML or XML pages. Further the server s may include database access software to communicate with databases included in the repositories. The server s may also include software programmed according to the Java programming language developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. the JavaScript programming language offered by Sun Microsystems Inc. and or the Enterprise Java Beans technology specification developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. to provide image access functionality. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art other programming languages may be used for implementation of the image access server system as described herein. Similarly the server s may also include Web server and database server software.

As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the one or more servers of the image access server system may each provide different functionality of the image access server system. So for example the one or more servers of the image access server system may include a database server for managing database interaction an application server for providing image access functionality and a Web server for managing client interaction. Similarly all functionality of the image access server system may be implemented in the form of software executing on one server. Further portions of the image access server system may also be provided by other software servers or systems in the networked environment. Also the image access server system may include all or parts of the networked environment. Accordingly the image access server system may be implemented in any number of configurations.

The image access server system may be implemented using an existing networked environment developed to facilitate the exchange of image information over networks and employ widely used reliable components such as off the shelf server computers server software and database software. The image access server system may use for example database software to store some or all information including persistence and database tables. The technology used may be chosen to provide flexibility modularity reliability scalability speed of execution and data security.

The image access server system may also comprise one or more databases to store image access server system information. Such image access server system information can include local data generated during the operation of the image access server system configuration parameters copies of image information etc. Such image access server system information may also comprise software code for the image access server system.

The image access server system includes application executable instructions for implementing one or more aspects of the image access server system functionality as more fully discussed below. The image access server system may also be useful for hosting software application programs implementing the client s . For example the server may provide one or more applets to the client the applets configured to run on a browser application executing on the client and to provide image access server system functionality on the client. For example an applet may be provided in association with a screen of the image access server system displayed on the client to interact with the user of the client.

The application executable instructions may include one or more application program interfaces APIs such as the image access API discussed in more detail below. As discussed below the image access server system software programs may provide the functionality for the methods exposed by the image access API. The image access API is used to facilitate the development of client applications to perform image information storage or retrieval operations against image information repositories via the image access server system. As described below the image access API provides a single contact for client applications to access the image access server system functionality to store and retrieve image information from disparate image information repositories.

The application executable instructions may include one or more components for providing the image access functionality of the image access server system as described in more detail below. The server s may receive via the client communication interface a request for particular image information and receive associated user entered data from a client such as a browser or electronic access device or a store command for storing particular image information and receive associated user entered data from a client such as a browser or electronic access device . In at least one embodiment the request may be for image information formatted in a screen and the user entered data includes data used to facilitate the retrieval of the requested image information. Such a request may be a hyperlinked request from a screen comprising one or more interactive HTML or XML pages in accordance with the JavaServer Pages JSP format developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. displayed on the client and the request transmitted according to the HTTP protocol. In at least one embodiment the store command may be for a store operation performed in relation to user entered data. Such a store command can be a hyperlinked command from a screen comprising one or more interactive HTML or XML pages in accordance with the JavaServer Pages JSP format developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. displayed on the client and the store command transmitted according to the HTTP protocol. The user entered data may be data provided by a user through a screen comprising one or more interactive HTML or XML pages in the JSP format displayed on the client. A page generated using JavaServer Pages technology is a text based document that contains two types of text static template data which can be expressed in any text based format such as HTML or XML and JavaServer Pages elements which construct dynamic content. Alternatively such a request or store command can be a hyperlinked request or store command from a screen comprising one or more interactive HTML or XML pages in accordance with the Active Server Pages ASP format developed by Microsoft Corporation displayed on the client and the request or store command transmitted according to the HTTP protocol. In that case the user entered data may be data provided by a user through a screen comprising one or more interactive HTML or XML pages in the ASP format displayed on the client.

In at least one embodiment the request or store command is received and processed by the server through the image access API. The image access API is triggered to process the request or the store command and the user entered data if any . In at least one embodiment the image access API is programmed in the Java programming language. In at least one embodiment the call of a method against the image access API causes the instantiation of one or more Enterprise Java Beans programs or beans in the server to perform the functionality of the called methods.

Referring to an index retrieval bean provides index image information request functionality as described in more detail below with respect to the image access API. The bean initiates a connection with one or more image information repositories or repository software over the repository communications interface. The bean facilitates storage of data processed retrieved and or created by the bean. For example the data may be stored in an instantiated data bean class written in the Java programming language. The bean further invokes the retrieval of the requested image information from the image information repository ies . For example the bean may execute a stored procedure associated with a particular image information repository using user entered data. Different stored procedures may be provided to retrieve different types of image information and the bean would choose the particular stored procedure s for execution based upon the request. The bean may also for example interact with repository software associated with a particular repository such as the image request broker or the Corblet framework system to retrieve the requested image information. The bean may further pass user entered data and retrieved image information to a screen generator not shown for use in display as described in more detail below. In at least one embodiment the screen generator is a JSP application. The bean may optionally transmit the retrieved image information to the client s for processing by the client application s .

The screen generator facilitates display of all or some of the user entered data and or retrieved image information by generating and transmitting a screen comprising for example one or more interactive HTML or XML pages to the client via the client communications interface. In at least one embodiment a screen may be generated by a JSP application and comprises one or more interactive HTML or XML pages including and or using information about the request store command the user entered data the retrieved image information and or other results if any transmitted to the requesting client in accordance with JSP formatting and the HTTP protocol. Alternatively the screen may be generated and transmitted in accordance with the ASP standard developed by Microsoft Corporation.

An image retrieval bean provides image request functionality as described in more detail below with respect to the image access API. The bean initiates a connection with one or more image information repositories or repository software over the repository communications interface. The bean facilitates storage of data processed retrieved and or created by the bean. For example the data may be stored in an instantiated data bean class written in the Java programming language. The bean further invokes the retrieval of one or more requested images from the image information repository ies . For example the bean may execute a stored procedure associated with a particular image information repository using user entered data or system data identifying the image s . Different stored procedures may be provided to retrieve different types of images and the bean would choose the particular stored procedure s for execution based upon the request. The bean may also for example interact with repository software associated with a particular repository such as the image request broker or the Corblet framework system to retrieve one or more requested images. The bean may further pass user entered data and the retrieved image s to a screen generator not shown for use in display as described in more detail above. The bean may optionally transmit the retrieved image s to the client s for processing by the client application s .

A user administration bean provides user administration functionality for the image access server system as described in more detail below with respect to the image viewer. The bean initiates a connection with an image access server system database comprising user information. The bean facilitates retrieval and storage of user administration information such as authentication of clients and users updating of user information etc. In at least one embodiment the bean facilitates validation of particular users of client applications and validation of classes of client applications. To facilitate storage and retrieval of user administration information the bean may for example execute one or more stored procedures against the image access server system database to perform user authentication or updating of user information. Different stored procedures may be provided to perform different user administration functions. The bean may also for example interact with other user administration systems where required and or implemented. The bean may further pass user entered data and retrieved user administration information to a screen generator not shown for use in display as described in more detail above. The bean may optionally transmit the user administration information to the client s for processing by the client application s .

A folder access bean provides folder functionality for the image access server system. The bean maintains folders for image information search requests and results. The bean for example initiates a connection with an image access server system database comprising folder information. The bean facilitates retrieval and storage of image information search requests and results into the database so that a user can organize such requests and results into folders for later review. To facilitate storage and retrieval of image information requests and results into and from folders the bean may for example execute one or more stored procedures against the image access server system database to perform the folder functionality. Different stored procedures may be provided to perform different folder functions. The bean may also for example interact with other storage systems where required and or implemented. The bean may further pass user entered data and retrieved folder information to a screen generator not shown for use in display as described in more detail above. The bean may optionally transmit the folder information to the client s for processing by the client application s .

An output services bean provides client applications with remote printing and fax capabilities with respect to image information as described in more detail below with respect to the image viewer. The bean initiates a connection with one or more remote printers and or one or more fax servers. The bean facilitates sending retrieved image information to the remote printers for printing or the fax servers for faxing. The bean may further pass user entered data and printing and or fax results to a screen generator not shown for use in display as described in more detail above. The bean may optionally transmit the user entered data and printing and or fax results to the client s for processing by the client application s . Optionally the output services bean may be configured to provide client application with e mail capabilities with respect to the image information. In such a case the bean initiates a connection with one or more e mail applications or provides e mail capability on its own.

A billing bean provides client applications with billing capabilities with respect to image information as described in more detail below with respect to the image viewer. The bean initiates a connection with one or more billing applications. The bean facilitates sending user entered data and retrieved image information to the billing applications for billing to accounts. The bean may further pass user entered data and billing results to a screen generator not shown for use in display as described in more detail above. The bean may optionally transmit the user entered data and billing results to the client s for processing by the client application s .

An image server bean provides image information request functionality with respect to a particular mainframe database known as CIMS a database technology licensed by Check Solutions. The bean initiates a connection via Item Client software see e.g. with one or more Item Servers associated with CIMS databases software licensed by Check Solutions. The bean facilitates storage of data processed retrieved and or created by the bean. For example the data may be stored in an instantiated data bean class written in the Java programming language. The bean further invokes the retrieval of one or more requested images from the CIMS databases via the Item Client and Item Server software. The bean may further pass user entered data and the retrieved image s to a screen generator not shown for use in display as described in more detail above. The bean may optionally transmit the retrieved image s to the client s for processing by the client application s .

As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the image server image retrieval bean index retrieval bean user administration bean folder access bean output services bean and the billing bean may be implemented as single software and or hardware application or divided into any number of separate software and or hardware applications or components. Further as will be apparent to those skilled in the art the various beans may implemented in other technologies and languages than the Enterprise Java Beans technology.

Referring to a functional block diagram of the software and top level data flow for accessing a mainframe database of at least one embodiment according to the present invention is depicted. depicts three layers a presentation layer for presenting image information request and results screens an application layer for processing image information requests and results and a backend services layer for storing and providing image information.

The presentation layer comprises several software components to provide for the processing and display of screens for requesting image information and presenting image information request results. A ServletPortal component provides processing and display of screens for requesting image information. In at least one embodiment the ServletPortal component is a servlet programmed in the Java programming language. The ServletPortal component manages the display of an image information request screen such as discussed below in relation to the image viewer. In at least one embodiment it provides information to a ViewJSP component as described in more detail below to generate an image information request screen. Further the ServletPortal component processes image information request and store commands and associated user entered data to initiate the retrieval of image information. The ServletPortal component for example instantiates relevant image access server system beans to retrieve image information according to typically the user entered data.

A ViewJSP component facilitates display of all or some of the user entered data and or retrieved image information by generating and transmitting a screen comprising for example one or more interactive HTML or XML pages to the client. In at least one embodiment a screen may be generated by a JSP application and comprises one or more interactive HTML or XML pages including and or using information about the image information request the user entered data the retrieved image information and or other results if any transmitted to the requesting client in accordance with JSP formatting and the HTTP protocol. The ViewJSP component accepts data regarding image information requests from the ServletPortal component and accepts image information request results from an ImageBean component described in more detail below.

An ImageBean component provides image request functionality as described in more detail below with respect to the image access API. The ImageBean component initiates a connection with one or more image information repositories or repository software. The ImageBean further invokes the retrieval of one or more requested images from the image information repository ies . So for example depending on the ImageBean component method called the ImageBean component retrieves the requested image s from the one or more image information repositories or repository software to which it has access according to the information provided by the ServletPortal component. Referring to several ImageBean component methods are depicted. In the example of the getCIMSImages method was invoked to retrieve one or more images from a mainframe database CIMS database . The getCIMSImages method takes an array of CheckIndexItem parameter values. The array of CheckIndexItem values indicate the particular image s requested from the CIMS database. As seen in the invocation of the getCIMSImages causes the invocation of several methods against another component the ImageServer component as discussed in more detail below in regards to that component. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art other methods may be provided for other image information repositories or repository software. Once the ImageBean component receives results whether image information or no results the ImageBean component communicates the results to the ViewJSP component for use in display as described in more detail above.

An ImageServer component provides image information request functionality with respect to a particular mainframe database known as CIMS. The ImageServer component initiates a connection via Item Client software see e.g. with one or more Item Server programs associated with CIMS databases. Depending on the methods invoked by the ImageBean component the ImageServer component invokes the retrieval of one or more requested images from the CIMS databases via the Item Client and Item Server software. Once the ImageServer component receives results whether requested image s or no results the ImageServer component communicates the results to the ImageServer component which then further communicates the results for use in display as described in more detail above.

As will be apparent to those skilled in the art these various components may be implemented as single software and or hardware application or divided into any number of separate software and or hardware applications or components.

Furthermore as will be apparent to those skilled in the art the interactions and processes described above may be applied to the other types of beans described above to provide the functionality described herein including the functionality of the image access API and image viewer. For example illustrates a functional block diagram of the software and top level data flow of an image viewer accessing image information repositories via an image access server system of least one embodiment according to the present invention. In the various process and data flows are shown for the various beans described above with the primary method of each bean depicted.

Referring to a functional block diagram of the software structure and top level data flow of a business application image accessing image information repositories via an image access server system of least one embodiment according to the present invention. A business application can easily take advantage of image information available through the image access server system by accessing the image access API of the image access server system. Referring to a business application user client can access the business application software on the business application server computer. The business application is implemented to access the image access API via instantiation of an image access API Java object that communicates with the image access server system. The image access server system comprises the implementation of the image access API. As discussed above and generally depicted in the image access API may be implemented as one or more Enterprise Java Beans components on the image access server system to provide the image access server system functionality. Appropriate calls on image access API methods causes the execution of the relevant components on the image access server system. Such components can include an ImageBean component for retrieving images an IndexBean component for retrieving image index information a UserBean component for updating user administrative information and BillingBean component for providing billing with respect to image information retrieval.

The image access server system components in turn interact with one or more image information repositories or repository software to store or retrieve image information. For example one or more of the image access server system components may interact with Information Request Broker software to retrieve or store image information on the ViewPointe image archive and index database provided ViewPointe Archive Services. Similarly the image access server system components may interact with a Corblet framework system to retrieve or store image information on the BancTec image archive and index database.

Another feature of at least one embodiment of the image access server system is load balancing and failover support. The image access server system is provided with redundancy and contingency sites to protect the operation of the image access server system from for example a natural disaster major telecommunications outage or total equipment failure. Accordingly the image access server system supports multiple servers and server sites.

Load balancing takes place automatically to load balance network traffic between servers at a server site on a round robin basis. The image access server system routes logon requests to the least busy image access server system application interface. In the event that load statistics are not available the image access server system will route logon requests to the next available image access server system application interface.

In the event of a failure of the primary Web application database fax or Item Client server within a site the secondary server within the site will automatically handle the transactions. In the event of a catastrophic Web server failure both the primary and secondary Web server all production traffic will be re routed to the remaining production site. In the event of a catastrophic application server failure both the primary and secondary application server all production traffic will be re routed to the remaining production site. In the event of a catastrophic database server failure both the primary and secondary database server all production traffic will be re routed to the remaining production site s . In the event of an Item Client server failure Item Client traffic will be re routed to remaining production site. In the event of a catastrophic fax server failure jobs will be re routed to the remaining production site. Appendix A provides the detail of the loading balance and failover of at least one embodiment of the image access server system.

In at least one embodiment a CORBA client application of the image access server system comprises one or more objects with properties defining the primary and back up sites for connection to the image access server system. In the image access server system an object request broker ORB is instantiated when the object s of the CORBA client application invokes an operation on one or more objects in the image access server system. The communication is performed via the primary site for connection to the image access server system. Where the primary site fails or is otherwise unavailable the instance of the ORB is destroyed and a new instance of an ORB is created with modified properties to make the connection from the object s of the CORBA client application to a back up site in the object. By creating a new instance of the ORB and modifying the connection properties of the ORB at instantiation the image access server system avoids the inability to modify static properties of an ORB once instantiated and avoids the automatic adoption of the static properties of a previous instance of an ORB.

A further feature of the image access server system is an improved polling technique. When a client application sends a polling request the image access server system holds the response to the polling request for a predetermined period of time e.g. 5 seconds to determine if it can complete the outstanding request of the client application and provide the results to the client application. So instead of immediately returning a response indicating that the request has not yet been performed the image access server system is able to more efficiently process polling requests. In at least one embodiment the predetermined period of time may be modified according to the type of client application making the polling request e.g. the type of browser and according to the performance of the image access server system to more effectively provide request results in response to polling request instead of indications that the request has not yet been performed . In the case of browsers the polling technique is able to extend the time outs of certain browsers such as the Microsoft Internet Explorer browser product. In at least one embodiment a screen such as depicted in is provided on the client application while polling requests are processed.

According to at least one embodiment of the invention a particular type of client application is an image viewer. The image viewer is a Web based application and framework that provides image viewing and input capability to end users. In at least one embodiment the image viewer client application connects to the image access server system via the image access API. In at least one embodiment the image viewer application comprises software programmed according to the Java language and uses HTML and HTTP technology to provide the image viewer functionality described below in a Web browser such as the Microsoft Internet Explorer software application.

As described hereafter in at least one embodiment the image viewer application is configured to access check information including check images and other check information of financial institutions. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the image viewer can be configured and or extended to any type of image information.

Upon instantiation of the image viewer application an image viewer home screen is displayed to the user. In at least one embodiment the image viewer application is instantiated by starting a Web browser using a URL for the image viewer home screen. Alternatively the Web browser may already have been instantiated and the URL for the image viewer application is entered into or on the browser. The image viewer home screen not shown displays basic support information and provides a list of functions that are available. The user can select from various versions of image viewer application and or download the plug ins required as a pre requisite for viewing images. A one time install of the plug in is required. The user simply clicks on the desired choices provided on the screen.

Referring to an implementation of various image viewer screens in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention is depicted. The screens provide various links buttons dropdown boxes checkboxes etc. To access particular screens the user may select an appropriate link or be directed to the screen upon clicking on a Submit button. For example upon user selection of a link an HTTP formatted request for one or more interactive HTML or XML pages corresponding to the selected screen may be transmitted to the image viewer system. Similarly clicking of a Submit button may cause an HTTP formatted command be transmitted to the image viewer system to perform the requested actions corresponding to the screen. In response to a selection of a particular screen by for example receiving a hyperlinked request the image viewer system may generate and transmit to the user s client the requested screen comprising one or more interactive HTML or XML pages with for example requested image information. To generate the HTML or XML page s of the screen the image viewer system causes various operations to be performed as described in more detail above in regards to the image access server system.

Referring to a Logon screen of the image viewer application is depicted. The Logon screen is used to verify that the user is authorized to use the image viewer application and where applicable the image access server system. The user must provide data in the User ID and Password fields valid user identification user ID in the User ID field and a valid password in the Password field. Once the data is entered the user clicks on the Logon button or presses Enter on the keyboard. The user ID and password will be validated against the image viewer and or image access server system security user database. The Reset button allows the user to clear out the input fields on the Logon screen.

Security error messages will appear based on whether a user ID and or password is invalid a password needs to be changed access has been revoked or a user ID has been locked out. An invalid user ID will result in the following error message being displayed Logon NOT ok. User ID not valid. An invalid password will result in the following error message being displayed Logon NOT ok. Password not verified for user xxxx. where xxxx is the user ID entered into the Logon screen by the user. A password that has not been changed in the last 90 days will result in the following error message being displayed You are required to change your password at this time. Users will be required to change their password every 90 days. A user ID that has been revoked due to 120 days of inactivity will result in the following message being displayed Your user account is inactive. Please contact for assistance . A user ID that has been locked out due to 3 consecutive failed login attempts will result in the following error message being displayed You user account is locked. Please contact for assistance . A change password function will be available on a Menu screen discussed in more detail below .

Additionally several links are provided on this Logon screen as well as on other screens. The New Search link allows the user to go to the Search screen discussed in more detail below . The Billing link allows the user to go to the Update Billing Information screen discussed in more detail below . The Menu link allows the user to go the Menu screen discussed in more detail below . The Help link allows the user to access the online user manual. Lastly the Logoff link returns the user to the Logon screen.

Referring to a User Registration screen is depicted. The User Registration screen is used to capture user information that will assist in tracking usage and geographical metrics. The User Registration screen appears when a new user logs on for the first time. The user must provide a first name last name and mail code in the respective First Name Last Name and Mail Code fields. Mail code information is information to identify the location of a user. The mail code could be for example a ZIP code an internal organization identifier or geographic locator. Error messages are provided if entries are not made in one or more of the relevant fields. The Submit button allows the user to submit the entered information. The Cancel button allows the user to cancel submission of the entered information.

Referring to a Search screen is depicted. The Search screen is used to capture the search criteria for image information that the user is attempting to access. For example a user can through the Search screen select either one particular image with sufficient search criteria or an entire range of images.

In at least one embodiment the user must select either the Account Number or the Sequence Number radio button in the Search by section. If the Account Number button is selected the user can search by account number s . If the Sequence Number button is selected the user can search by sequence number s . If Account Number is selected Capture Date and Account Number are required Amount and Check Serial Number are optional. If Sequence Number is selected Capture Date and Sequence Number are required Amount and Check Serial Number are optional. The user is required to enter valid search criteria and click on the Search button or press the Enter button on the keyboard which will initiate the search. The Reset button will clear all fields on the screen.

The Capture Date field must contain a valid date in the format of mm dd yyyy. If entering a date range the second date must also be in the mm dd yyyy format and must be later than the first date entered. The Account field must contain a numeric value. The Sequence Number field must contain a numeric value. No alpha or special characters are allowed. If entered the second sequence number must also be numeric and must be higher number than the first sequence number entered. The Amount field must contain a valid amount. Decimal and commas are allowed. If entered the second amount must also be numeric and must be higher than the first amount. The Check Serial Number field must contain a numeric value. No alpha or special characters are allowed. If entered the second Check Serial number must also be numeric and must be a higher number than the first Check Serial number entered.

A number of error messages are provided for the Search screen. Data in the Capture Date field in the wrong format will result in the following error Invalid Date . A date range where the first date is higher than the second will display Date range invalid . An Account field value that is non numeric will result in the following error Invalid Account . A sequence number range where the first number is higher than the second will display Number range invalid . An Amount field value that is not valid will result in the following error Invalid Amount . Also an amount range where the first amount is higher than the second will display Amount range invalid . A Check Serial Number field range where the first number is higher than the second will display Number range invalid . If valid search criteria are entered but no images match the criteria the following message will be displayed No Images Found . If greater than a maximum amount of items match the search criteria then the search results screen e.g. the Pick List screen described below will display the following message Search Results xxxx Items Found Display Limit Reached where xxxx is the maximum of items that may returned.

Referring to a Processing screen is depicted. The Processing screen is displayed while waiting on the results of a search or while waiting on the results from an image request. The screen automatically refreshes when processing completes. The user may click on the Cancel button to cancel the request and bring the user back to the screen from which the processing began.

Referring to a Pick List screen is depicted. The Pick List screen displays the list of images that match the search criteria from the Search screen. The user can select items from the list for viewing. To view images the user must select one or more images from the pick list. This can be accomplished by clicking the check box to the left of each desired image or clicking the Select All button at the bottom of the screen.

In at least one embodiment a certain maximum amount of items can be viewed billed faxed or remotely printed at one time. If more than the maximum amount of images are selected for viewing faxing or remote printing the following error message will be displayed Too many images selected. The first xxxx images selected will be retrieved. where xxxx is the maximum amount. If more than the maximum amount of images are selected for billing the following error message will be displayed Too many images selected the first xxxx images selected will be available for billing. where xxxx is the maximum amount.

The Select check buttons provided in the second column from the left allow the user to select one or more items to view fax print or bill. Sequence Check Serial Amount Account Capture Date Location and ABA Number links provided at the top of the third fourth fifth sixth seventh eight and ninth columns from the left not shown allow the user to sort pick list items in ascending descending order according to the particular link selected e.g. picking the Sequence link will sort based on sequence number. The View button allows the user to view selected items. The Select All button allows the user to select all pick list item checkboxes. The Select None button allows the user to deselect all pick list item checkboxes. The Redo button allows the user to rerun the most recently run search to refresh the search results. The Bill button allows the user to bill for the selected pick list item s . The Send Items dropdown box allows the user to select either to fax or remotely print the selected item s .

Referring to a Remote Print Interface Display screen is depicted. The Remote Print Interface Display screen pops up once a user has selected one or more items and has chosen the remote print option from the Send Items dropdown box. In order to remote print one or more items the user must choose a printer complete the sender name the recipient name and recipient address. Appropriate error messages are provided if the required data is not provided.

The Printer dropdown box allows the user to select the target printer for the selected pick list item s . The Sender Name field allows the user to enter their name. The default name is pulled from the user profile. The Sender Telephone field allows the user to enter their phone number. The Company field allows the user to enter the sender s company name. The default company name is pulled from the user profile. The Send To Name field allows the user to populate the recipient s name. The Send To Address field allows the user to populate the recipient s address including city state and ZIP code. The Sides dropdown box allows the user to select either the front or both sides of the selected pick list item s . The Checks Per Page dropdown box allows the user to select either 1 or 4 check images per printed page. The Cover Letter checkbox allows the user to print a standard cover letter with the printed selected pick list item s . The Submit button allows the user to submit the remote print request for the selected pick list item s . The Reset button allows the user to clear out the input fields on the screen. The Cancel button allows the user to stop the remote print function.

Referring to a Fax Interface Display screen is depicted. The Fax Interface Display screen pops up once a user has selected one or more items and has chosen the fax option from the Send Items drop down box. In order to fax one or more selected items the user must enter the sender s name phone number and fax number and the recipient s name and fax number. Appropriate error messages are provided if the required data is not provided.

The Sender Name field allows the user to enter the sender s name. The default name is pulled from the user profile. The Sender Telephone field allows the user to enter the sender s phone number. The Company field allows the user to enter the sender s company name. The default company name is pulled from the user profile. The Sender Fax Number field allows the user to enter the sender s fax number. The Send To Name field allows the user to populate the recipient s name. The Send To Phone Number allows the user to enter the recipient s telephone number. The Send To Fax Number field allows the user to enter the recipient s fax number. The Memo field allows the user to write a message pertaining to the images being faxed. The Sides dropdown box allows the user to select either the front or both sides of the selected pick list item s . The Checks Per Page dropdown box allows the user to select either 1 or 4 check images per printed page. The Cover Letter checkbox allows the user to print a standard cover letter with the printed selected pick list item s . The Submit button allows the user to submit the remote print request for the selected pick list item s . The Reset button allows the user to clear out the input fields on the screen. The Cancel button allows the user to stop the remote print function.

Referring to an Image Plug in Display screen is depicted. The Image Plug In Display screen shows the images that have been retrieved for viewing. The Image Plug In Display screen provides several buttons for use in manipulating the image. These include switching between front and back rotating left and right zooming in and out displaying a negative image enhancing the image fitting the image size to the window and printing the item. To close the Image Plug In Display screen the user must click on the X close box in the upper right corner of the Image Plug In Display screen.

The Next View button the top button on the right hand side allows user to see the reverse side of the image. The Rotate Image Right button the second button from the top on the right hand side allows user to rotate the image 90 degrees to the right. The Rotate Image Left the third button from the top on the right hand side button allows user to rotate the image 90 degrees to the left. The Magnify Image button the fourth button from the top on the right hand side allows user to zoom in on the image. The Shrink Image button the fifth button from the top on the right hand side allows the user to zoom out of the image. The Reverse Image Colors button the sixth button from the top on the right hand side allows the user to reverse the image colors. The Enhance Image button the seventh button from the top on the right hand side allows the user to view an enhancement of the front of an image of the selected item. The Fit Image to Window button the eighth button from the top on the right hand side allows the user to resize the image to fit the size of the window. The Print button the ninth button from the top on the right hand side allows the user to print item images. The scroll bar allows the user to move the image around within the window. The Contrast slide button allows the user to increase decrease the amount of color on the image. The Brightness slide button allows the user to increase decrease the level of light on the image. The First Image button the first arrow from the left in the bottom right hand corner allows the user to go to the first image loaded in the viewer. The Revert To Prior Image button the second arrow from the left in the bottom right hand corner allows the user to view the prior image loaded in the viewer. The Advance To Next Image button the third arrow from the left in the bottom right hand corner allows the user to view the next image loaded in the viewer. The Last Image button the fourth arrow from the left in the bottom right hand corner allows the user to view the last image loaded in the viewer.

Referring to an Add Billing screen is depicted. The Add Billing screen is presented when the Bill button is selected on the Pick List screen. The Add Billing screen is used to capture billing information for selected images. All items selected will be listed on this screen. The top of the screen provides the options to charge all or waive all set the same reason code for all items set all Account to Bill field next to the items to the same account number provided in the top Account to Bill field and set all Acct Location field next to the items to the same location provided in the top Account Location field. Clicking on the Add button will capture the updated information and return the user to the previous Pick List screen. The Cancel button will cancel any changes made and return the user to the previous Pick List screen.

The Charge Waive button must be selected for each item. The default is to charge each selected item. The Charge All button allows the user to set the charge status to charge the account for all items on the screen. The Waive All button allows user to set the charge status to waive the account for all items on the screen. The Reason Code drop down box next to each item and the top of the screen is used to explain why an item was charged or waived. The default is that the customer needs a 2copy. Other reason codes include Customer Lost Item Customer Never Received Item 2Request Poor Copy Possible Bank Error Possible Forgery Fraud Auditing Request Regular Subpoena Request for Internal Research Non Disclosure Subpoena Truncated and Current Cycle Request. The Set All Reason Codes button allows the user to select the reason code for all items according the reason code selected in the Reason Code drop down box at the top of the screen. The Account to Bill field next to each item will display the account number depending on whether the user populates the account to be billed field at the top of the screen or chooses to select the Bill Item Account check box to charge the account associated with the image selected. The user can modify the default bill to account by editing the Account to Bill field. The Account Location field next to each item is used to select the state where the billed to account is domiciled. The Account Location field must be filled in. The Account to Bill field at the top of the screen allows the user to enter the account number to which charges are billed for all items. Similarly the Account Location field at the top of the screen allows the user to select the account location for all items. The Set All button allows the user to set selections for all items entered in the top Account to Bill and Account Location fields. The Add button allows the user to submit selections on this screen. The Cancel button allows the user to cancel selections made on this screen and return to the Pick List screen.

If a user attempts to add an item to be billed without choosing providing appropriate data in the Account Location field the following message will appear You must select an Account location. If items that have previously been billed or waived on that particular date are selected on the Pick List screen and then the Bill button is selected on that screen the following message will appear Items requested that have already been billed will not be displayed again .

Referring to a Billing Update Search screen is depicted. The Billing Update Search screen is used to search for previously captured billing records for review or update. The user navigates to this screen via the Bill link on the top bar of links. The Billing Update Search screen provides a method to search for all items worked in billing or by a specific user or by a specific account number. In at least one embodiment all search results will be for the current day only and retrieved from the image viewer database. An unsuccessful search will result in an error message stating that No billing items returned. You can only access billing information logged for today. The Processed By drop down box allows the user to select a user ID as billing search criteria. The Account Number field allows the user to enter a specific account number as billing search criteria. The Search button allows the user to initiate the search.

Referring to an Update Billing Information screen is depicted. The Update Billing Information screen provides an opportunity to modify previously captured billing information. In at least one embodiment updates are only available to the current day billing information. The user navigates to this screen via the Billing Update Search screen.

The Update Billing Information screen provides a list of the billing available for update. The list includes the ID of the individual who captured the information originally the ID of the individual who last updated the record the account the item amount and the item check number. The user has the option to update through the Charge Waive button the Reason dropdown box the Charge to Account field not shown and the Account Location field not shown . The total number of items Waived and the total number of items Charged are listed at the bottom. The Update checkbox next to each item will need to be selected if changes to that item s billing information are to be captured. The Update button at the bottom is used to capture the changes entered. The Cancel button will cancel all changes made.

When the Account Location field is left blank the error message You must select an Account location appears. When the Charge button is selected and the Account to Bill field is left blank the error message You must select an Account to bill appears.

Referring to a Batch Add User screen is depicted. The Batch Add User screen allows multiple user IDs with in the same group ID to be added at one time for use in the image viewer application. To access this functionality a user must have administrative rights assigned to them at the user change level. The administrator assigns an initial password for the entire group in the User s Password field. The administrator will select the new users group from a list of existing group IDs in the Group dropdown box. In this screen the Login ID field User s Password field and Group dropdown box must be populated. Appropriate error messages are provided if required fields are not populated. The Add button allows the user to add new user information entered on the screen. The Cancel button allows the user to cancel addition of new users.

Referring to an Update User Security screen is depicted. The Update User Security screen allows multiple user IDs to be updated at one time with new security profiles in the image viewer application. To access this functionality a user must have administrative rights assigned to them at the user change level. The administrator selects the new users security profile from a list of profiles in the Select the new security profile drop down box. In this screen the Login ID field must be populated and the Select the new security profile drop down box must have a value selected. If an administrator attempts to change security profiles without entering information in the Login ID field an error message reads You must enter Login IDs . The Submit button allows the administrator to change user security profiles entered on this screen. The Cancel button allows the administrator to cancel out.

Referring to a Menu Regular User Functionality screen is depicted. The Menu Regular User Functionality screen allows the normal user to change the user s password update user information and get information about the image viewer application. The Menu link on the top link bar will bring the normal user without administrative rights to the Menu Regular User Functionality screen with the following links Change Password Update User Information and About ImageView . To leave this screen the user selects an alternate link on the top of screen.

Referring to a Menu Full Administrative Functionality screen is depicted. The Menu Full Administrative Functionality screen allows the full administrative rights user to change the administrative user s password update the administrative user s information get information about the image viewer application add one or more users to the image viewer application one at a time add users by batch set user passwords access administrative reports update user security not shown update user status not shown view users logged in display the current notes log display the current image viewer application statistics log reload the list of administrators configuration file and reload the configuration file. The Menu link on the top link bar will bring the normal user without administrative rights to the Menu Full Administrative Functionality screen with the following links Change Password Update User Information About ImageView Add User s Add Users by Batch Set User Password Reports Update User Security not shown Update User Status not shown Show Users Logged In Display the Current Notes Log Display the Current Stats Log Re read List of Administrators Config File and Re read Config File . To leave this screen the user selects an alternate link on the top of screen. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art different levels of user rights may be provided which allows those user levels more or less administrative rights as provided in this screen.

Referring to an Update User Status screens allow user administrators to perform maintenance on a specific user ID that they specify on the screen depicted in . The user administrator can reset a locked out user reactivate a user ID expire delete a user ID and or change a password for a user ID. The administrative user must enter a user ID. If an invalid User ID is submitted an error message will indicate ERROR You entered an invalid User ID . The Submit button allows the user to submit the action. The Cancel button allows the user to cancel out. Once a user ID has been specified and submitted on the screen of the screen of allows user administrators to change a user s status to Active Inactive New Deleted Locked or Unlocked. The Select New Status dropdown box allows the user to select the new status of a user ID. The status includes Active Inactive New Deleted Locked and Unlocked. The New Password field allows the administrator to enter a new password for the designated user. The Confirm Password field allows the administrator to enter a password for the designated user as confirmation. The Submit button allows the user to submit the action. The Cancel button allows the user to cancel out.

Referring to a Reports Menu screen is depicted. The Reports Menu screen allows an administrative user to access certain types of predetermined reports available within the image viewer application. The Reread Report Definition button allows the administrator to reload the screen to update the definitions of the predetermined reports showing on the screen or to add or delete reports to the screen. The administrator enters a start date in the Start Date field and an end date in the End Date field. Error checking and messages will ensure proper dates are entered. The administrator then selects any of the reports desired by selecting the relevant Run button. The image viewer application will then run and prepare the relevant report selected for the date range entered. The types of reports available to the administrator include Total Image Retrievals by Location Group Average Image Retrievals by Location Group Average Age of Images Retrieved by Location Group Average Number of Requests per Location Group and Image Retrieval Success versus Failure Statistics . depict screens for each of these reports.

Referring to a Total Image Retrievals by Location Group report screen displays the information regarding all requests for images. The location ID column indicates the location of a particular image. The group code column indicates the group code for the image. The count column indicates the number of times the image was retrieved. The average times in seconds column indicates the average time taken in seconds to retrieve the image.

Referring to an Average Image Retrievals by Location Group report screen displays the information regarding average image retrievals by location and group sorted by location. The location ID column indicates the locations of images. The group code column indicates the group code for the location. The average count column indicates the number of times images are retrieved from the location.

Referring to an Average Age of Images Retrieved by Location Group report screen displays the information regarding average age of the images retrieved by location and group sorted by location. The location ID column indicates the locations of images. The group code column indicates the group code for the location. The average age in days column indicates the average age of images retrieved from the location.

Referring to an Average Number of Requests per Location Group report screen displays the information regarding the average number of requests for images by location and group sorted by location. The location ID column indicates the locations of images. The group code column indicates the group code for the location. The average server requests column indicates the average number of requests for images from the location.

Referring to an Image Retrieval Success versus Failure Statistics report screen displays information regarding all requests made to the image viewer application for an image. The requests column indicates the number of requests for the image. The failures column indicates the number of times the image was not returned for any number of reasons e.g. could not locate image information repository image information repository unavailable network problems image viewer application problems etc. . The failure and success rates reduce the numbers of failures and requests to a percentage of failures and successful requests respectively.

As can be seen in the screens of the image viewer provides a user friendly and intuitive environment for viewing and updating image information. Fields and screens are descriptively labeled and point and click navigation can be utilized for a user to access additional screens. Further the screens offer the user a link to one or more help screens such help screen s providing the user general guidance on the image viewer and or particular screens. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the help links could call other applications such as an e mail application or a help application to provide help services.

As discussed above according to at least one embodiment of the invention the image access server system comprises an image access API. The image access API provides a distributed interface for retrieval of image information such as images and image index information from any available image information repository to the image access server system. In at least one embodiment the image information repositories available for access via the image access API may include one or more of the ViewPointe Archival Solutions GA All Items Archive provided by Banctec Inc. CIMS mainframe and DCIMS licensed by Check Solutions archive image information repositories.

The image access API allows current and new client applications to make image information requests remotely to image information repositories. It is a tool that provides client application developers an image information access interface for their applications without knowledge of the underlying image information access infrastructure. Through the image access API applications can connect to image information repositories in a standard and flexible manner without having to be hard coded to particular repository infrastructure.

The image access API is designed as a flexible distributed object that connects to the image access server system for processing of all image information requests. In at least one embodiment the image access API is built using Java technology and requires a Java interface from an application wishing to integrate image information data. The use of Java technology for the image access API permits a flexible architecture for networked objects and remote invocations.

Referring to the image access API is depicted generically as providing the client s access to the image information repositories via the image access server system. In at least one embodiment software is provided on the image access server system to implement the image access API. The image access API exposes methods that provide the interface to the image access server system. These methods hide the details required for communicating with the application server s of the image access server system and the repository software. Client applications call methods against the image access API.

Index Retrieval The image access server system interrogates available index databases for image items that match a particular set of search criteria.

Logging The image access server system tracks particular application requests and provides performance and volume statistics for analysis and review.

Billing The image access server system provides billing capabilities for use with applications that process billable image information requests. Applications can use the image access server system to store retrieve and transmit billing data to and from billing processing systems.

The ImageAccessAPI class is the base class for connection to the image access server system. Once instantiated the ImageAccessAPI class acts as a proxy to the application server s of the image access server system. The ImageAccessAPIInterface object exposes all methods required for accessing the image access server system submitting image information e.g. index and images requests and storing volume and performance data. Using the exposed methods an application can make requests for images and index information to the image access application server s for processing. When processing is complete the image access API will format the response into one or more objects for presentation back to the requesting application. Providing this type of functionality simplifies the client application s implementation by hiding the specific requirements of the image access application server s and back end repository layer from the client. details an example of the relationship between the image access API object and a business application.

Two constructors can be used to create the image access API object and provide the application developer with the option to create a pool of objects or instantiate new objects whenever needed.

One constructor option is to instantiate the object without passing in any parameters. Once the object is created it will hold all necessary variables and data required to connect to the image access application server s but will not connect until the first request is made. Then the object will narrow the focus and obtain a remote reference to the particular object needed to complete the request transaction. Under this mode the object is ready to connect to the image access application server s when needed. It instantiates very quickly and will not slow the application s launch while remote references to all image access application server beans are made. The first time the user tries to retrieve data the connections will be made and the user will experience some delay. Once the remote references are obtained all subsequent requests will process much quicker.

The second constructor option is to create the objects with a boolean true in the constructor. This will force the image access API object to obtain all remote references to the image access application server s at startup. The cost for the connection will be borne at instantiation but the first user will not experience any delays when submitting the first request. This mode would be beneficial if the application developer wanted to pool these connection objects for use by many users.

The Java specification for the image access API is provided in Appendix B. Further details of the image access API are provided below.

The image access API object is designed to reside on one or more image access application servers located within an organization s secure network. In at least one embodiment image information is not encrypted when the image access server system fulfills a request instead the image access server system relies on the security of the client application server s . Optionally the image access API may include encryption routines to ensure privacy when delivering image information especially where the delivery is via the Internet.

The image access API depends on the security policy of the host server for authentication and control of client sessions to the image access server system. In at least one embodiment the image access API is a server side component and is only instantiated on a secure server s in the image access server system.

In at least one embodiment when the image access API object is initialized it issues a call to the image access server system and starts authentication processes. Once authenticated the image access API object is ready to process requests on behalf of client applications. Applications that leverage the image access API will be authenticated when the object is created or at time of first request depending on the constructor used during the image access API object initialization process. However each requesting application is responsible for verifying individual user IDs and passwords within their own applications. Image access API security is limited to authenticating at the application level. So for example if computers were to access the image access API through an internal image access application the image access application would be authenticated. Individual users of the image access application once authenticated by the image access application could access the image access server system without additional security verification from the image access API. Optionally the image access server system may be extended to authenticate and authorize individual users.

To ensure the image access API object s environment and connection to the image access application server s is up and functioning the image access API object includes a self test method. This test will connect to the remote image access application server s and obtain remote references to the exposed objects. This test will validate the environment the object s validity and the host server s right to access the image access application server s . If the test completes the host server is ready to present image information requests for processing.

Purges all transient data that is associated with a particular request. All data required for accessing the image access application server s will not be purged.

The image access application server s will publish a message that will contain status information such as scheduled downtime or failure notices for client applications to use for feedback and information to end users. This method connects to the image access application server s and retrieves the text message. Image Access API Index Requests

The index requests feature of the image access API provides client applications with a method for querying the image information repositories for items that match a particular set of query criteria. The image access server system will accept index requests from the image access API and queries the available image information repositories for items that match the query criteria.

For example a request may be for index information regarding a particular check in which case the image access API via the image access server system queries the available image information repositories for check items that match the query criteria. The image access API will return one or more CheckItem objects to the client application which comprise check information that matches the query criteria. Such check information can include check images and other documents or items that match the query criteria. The CheckItem object is a Java object that comprises all the data associated with a particular check or transaction document captured in the available image information repositories. If the lookup results in multiple items that match the query criteria the image access API will return an array of CheckItem objects.

To take advantage of index requests through the image access API the client application must gather information whether from internal information and or from the user on which to base a query into the image information repositories. In at least one embodiment the query information must include the capture date and either an account number or sequence number. Other data including check serial number and or amount will help refine searches but is not required.

Queries into the image information repositories are divided into two major types Range Query or Multiple Query and are submitted to the image access server system using a QueryCriteria object. A QueryCriteria object is a Java object that encapsulates the details of a query into the image information repositories. A QueryCriteria object comprises one or more QueryItem objects associated with one index request. A QueryItem object is a Java object that holds the set get methods for capturing and retrieving a client application s query parameters and is used to store the specific data associated with an index request. The data that makes up a Range Query or a Multiple Query is stored in the QueryItem object s .

A Range Query involves data ranges in the form of low and high values. In at least one embodiment only one Range QueryItem object can be added to a QueryCriteria object for processing against the image access server system. If a client application attempts to submit more than one Range QueryItem object an exception will be thrown.

A Multiple Query involves specifying a unique item using capture date and sequence number or capture date and account number with the addition of additional criteria as required such as amount and check serial number information to refine the search. In at least one embodiment multiple queries can be batched together by adding Multiple QueryItem objects to the QueryCriteria object.

In at least one embodiment to limit the impact from any particular index request the maximum number of CheckItems returned will be 3000.

Since the image access server system relies on multiple databases for index information partial results maybe returned if one of the image information repositories is unavailable for request processing. In an effort to reduce the impact to client applications relying on image information query results the image access API will return partial results if an error occurs when communicating with an image information repository. Client applications will be responsible for interrogating the results section of the image access API object after completion of an index request to determine whether the query results are complete.

Used to add sequence data to a QueryItem object that is immediately added to the QueryCriteria object. This method can be called multiple times for the simultaneous request of several items with matching index data.

Used to add OnUs data to a QueryItem object that is immediately added to the QueryCriteria object. This method can be called multiple times for the simultaneous request of several items with matching index data. OnUs items are documents associated with a particular organization. Items that are not OnUs items can be located through the image access API and the image access server system. Such item can be queried through the use of other query types including the sequence number query method detailed above and transit item specific queries using the transit account number.

Used to add a Range QueryItem to the QueryCriteria object. In at least one embodiment only one Range QueryItem can be present in a QueryCriteria object. If a client application attempts to add a second Range QueryItem an exception will be thrown.

Used to clear the contents of the QueryCriteria object from memory. This method must be called to clear aborted attempts to issue index requests. If not properly cleared the results of an index request cannot be considered valid.

Sends the QueryCriteria object to the application server s of the image access server system for processing. The results will be in the form of one or more CheckItem objects. Each CheckItem object comprises the data associated with a particular item.

The image request methods of the image access API provide access to images in the image information repositories. The image access API hides all the image access details of the disparate image information repositories from the client application and only presents the complete or partial results of an image request.

In at least one embodiment to process an image request the image access API requires a client application to set the format and compression attributes of the image results before the request is submitted to the image access server system. Using the defined attributes the image access server system will return images in a form that the client application expects.

The image access server system will accept image requests in the form of CheckItem objects. It will use the data stored in these objects to determine where the requested item s is located e.g. in which image information repository the image can be found and retrieve it from the relevant image information repository. Images will be returned to the client application in ImageItem objects. An ImageItem object extends the CheckItem object and includes the item s image data. For example in the case of a check the CheckItem object will include the image of the front and back of the check. ImageItem objects include the items index data as well as image data. If multiple items were requested an array of ImageItems is returned.

The image access server system is responsible for presenting the images back to the client application in the requested format. Currently the image access server system will return images either in a Java object with the images embedded in the object or via a URL. Once the client application server s has the URL it would be allowed to retrieve the image file from the image access application server s utilizing the HTTP protocol.

In at least one embodiment the default format for returned images is BTIF a registered extension of the TIFF image compression wrapper specification currently managed by Adobe Corporation . The BTIF format provides the wrapping to place a check s front image and back image in the same file along with details on index information. Images returned in the BTIF format are displayed using an image viewing utility that provides additional functionality such as zoom rotate etc.

In addition to response type the client application can also request the image compression format. Currently the available formats include G4 a compression format defined by the International Telecommunication Union ITU T IOCA ABIC a raster and compression format defined by IBM Corporation JPEG the Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG format defined in ISO DIS 10918 1 Digital compression and coding of continuous tone still images JPEG CCITT now ITU T Recommendation T.81 and PNG Portable Network Graphics PNG format specified in the World Wide Web Consortium W3C Recommendation of Oct. 1 1996 and Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comment RFC 2083 . In at least one embodiment only G4 IOCA ABIC and JPEG images can be returned encapsulated in a BTIF wrapper.

In at least one embodiment the image access server system in order to reduce the impact on the network has a limit of 30 returned images per request. If a client application wishes to retrieve more than 30 images for a particular type of request it will be responsible for grouping the requests into 30 image block requests and presenting those blocks to the image access API for processing.

Since the image access application server s processes image requests against multiple back end image information repositories these requests can provide only partial results when only one or more image information repositories are available. Therefore the image access API will provide additional information on the request using the result methods below.

Returns the current value of the return type attribute. This describes how the client application is requesting the image be returned. Options for return type are an array of ImageItem objects or a BTIF file. Only BTIF can be returned as a URL pointing to the image file.

Returns the current value of the image format attribute. This describes the compression format the client application is defining for the returned images. Options include PNG JPEG or native. Native formats include G4 JPEG and IOCA ABIC.

Sets the CheckItem array. This array is a staging point for image requests to be sent to the image access application server s .

Adds a single CheckItem object to the Checkitem array in preparation for an image request to the image access application server s .

Sends the CheckItem array to the image access application server s for processing. The result returned from the image access application server s is a uniform resource locator URL that points to the BTIF file located on the image access application server s . The client application can retrieve the file using the URL and present it to the users via a BTIF image viewer.

Sends the CheckItem array to the image access application server s for processing. The results are an ImageItem object or an array of ImageItem objects for multiple image requests. Images can be returned to the client application in the following formats JPEG PNG or BTIF wrapped. Image Access API Results

Returns messages associated with the partially or fully failed request. For example GA All Items Archive is not available for image requests. Only ViewPointe data was available. 

The detailed descriptions may have been presented in terms of program procedures executed on a computer or network of computers. These procedural descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. The embodiments of the invention may be implemented as apparent to those skilled in the art in hardware or software or any combination thereof. The actual software code or hardware used to implement the invention is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments often will be described without specific reference to the actual software code or hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and hardware to implement the embodiments of the invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

A procedure is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. These operations comprise physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It proves convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers objects attributes or the like. It should be noted however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations of the invention described herein the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing the operations of the invention include general purpose digital computers special purpose computers or similar devices.

Each operation of the method may be executed on any general computer such as a mainframe computer personal computer or the like and pursuant to one or more or a part of one or more program modules or objects generated from any programming language such as C Perl Java Fortran etc. And still further each operation or a file module object or the like implementing each operation may be executed by special purpose hardware or a circuit module designed for that purpose. For example the invention may be implemented as a firmware program loaded into non volatile storage or a software program loaded from or into a data storage medium as machine readable code such code being instructions executable by an array of logic elements such as a processor or other digital signal processing unit. Any data handled in such processing or created as a result of such processing can be stored in any memory as is conventional in the art. By way of example such data may be stored in a temporary memory such as in the RAM of a given computer system or subsystem. In addition or in the alternative such data may be stored in longer term storage devices for example magnetic disks rewritable optical disks and so on.

In the case of diagrams depicted herein they are provided by way of example. There may be variations to these diagrams or the operations described herein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance in certain cases the operations may be performed in differing order or operations may be added deleted or modified.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented as an article of manufacture comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code means therein for executing the method operations of the invention a program storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform the method operations of the invention or a computer program product. Such an article of manufacture program storage device or computer program product may include but is not limited to CD ROM CD R CD RW diskettes tapes hard drives computer system memory e.g. RAM or ROM and or the electronic magnetic optical biological or other similar embodiments of the program including but not limited to a carrier wave modulated or otherwise manipulated to convey instructions that can be read demodulated decoded and executed by a computer . Indeed the article of manufacture program storage device or computer program product may include any solid or fluid transmission medium whether magnetic biological optical or the like for storing or transmitting signals readable by a machine for controlling the operation of a general or special purpose computer according to any or all methods of the invention and or to structure its components in accordance with a system of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented in a system. A system may comprise a computer that includes a processor and a memory device and optionally a storage device an output device such as a video display and or an input device such as a keyboard or computer mouse. Moreover a system may comprise an interconnected network of computers. Computers may equally be in stand alone form such as the traditional desktop personal computer or integrated into another apparatus such as a cellular telephone .

The system may be specially constructed for the required purposes to perform for example the method of the invention or the system may comprise one or more general purpose computers as selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program in accordance with the teachings herein stored in the computer s . The system could also be implemented in whole or in part as a hard wired circuit or as a circuit configuration fabricated into an application specific integrated circuit. The invention presented herein is not inherently related to a particular computer system or other apparatus. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description given.

While this invention has been described in relation to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that other embodiments according to the generic principles disclosed herein modifications to the disclosed embodiments and changes in the details of construction arrangement of parts compositions processes structures and materials selection all may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention Changes including equivalent structures acts materials etc. may be made within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects. Thus it should be understood that the above described embodiments have been provided by way of example rather than as a limitation of the invention and that the specification and drawing s are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. As such the invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown above but rather is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed in any fashion herein.

