---

title: System and method to customize search engine results by picking documents
abstract: A method to generate best matching search keywords is disclosed. After running an Internet search engine, a user selects links. From the links, common keywords are extracted and sorted based on the number of times that the common keywords appears in the contents of the links. The search engine runs searches based on a few of top ranked keywords, generates best matching search keywords, and provides the selected links as well as more links that relates to the best matching search keywords.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07415460&OS=07415460&RS=07415460
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07415460
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071210
---
The present invention relates to keyword searching. More particularly the present invention relates to customizing search engine results.

Search engines have become the dominant way to access information on the Internet providing ease of use and accurate results. Typically search results generated from a search engine comprise a list of URLs Uniform Resource Locator of web sites. However there are many occasions when the web sites that a user is interested in are scattered throughout the results. Often the results of interest do not appear on the first page but in subsequent result pages. This behavior may disappoint a user if the user wishes to distribute the search results to other users or perhaps store the search query string in a document . The Google Similar Pages feature serves only to find similar documents and does not provide accurate documents.

For example when a user clicks on the Similar Pages link for a search result Google automatically bring web pages that are related to this result. The Similar Pages feature can be used for many purposes. If a user likes a particular site s content but wish it had more Similar Pages can find sites with similar content with which the user may be unfamiliar. If a user is looking for product information Similar Pages can find competitive information so the user can make direct comparisons. If a user is interested in researching a particular field Similar Pages can help the user find a large number of resources very quickly without having to worry about selecting the right keywords.

However the more specialized a page is the fewer results the existing search engines can find for a user. For example the Similar Pages feature of Google may not be able to find related pages for a personal home page if it does not have enough information to associate other pages with it. Also if companies use multiple URLs for their pages such as company.com and www.company.com Similar Pages may have little information on one URL but lots on the other.

Therefore it would be desirable to have a search engine and a method for providing more accurate search result documents.

The present invention describes an additional feature to current existing search engines such as Yahoo Google etc.

A user selects documents web pages PDFs or any other documents returned in search results generated from a search engine and enters a position which specifies how high the selected documents shall appear on search results. In one embodiment default values may be used for the position. The search engine extracts keywords from the selected documents and produce overall ranking of extracted keywords by performing content analysis. The search engine runs search and generates search results based on one or more of top ranked keywords. If the search results do not include the selected documents within the entered position in the search results the search engine runs search using more of top ranked keywords. If the selected documents are returned within entered position in search results the keywords that used to generate the search results are returned as a best matching search keyword to the user. Then the user can obtain the best matching search keyword that generates the selected documents as search results as well as other documents related to the best matching search keyword.

When a normal query is run through a search engine a user enters some keywords and then the user obtains a list of documents web pages PDFs etc. as search results. The result is listed in the order that the search engine believes best match with the keywords entered. However a user may want to generate a set of keywords such that a specific set of documents are returned. Then according to the present invention a search engine takes a set of documents and generates the keywords from the set of documents such that entering the keywords into the search engine will yield the set of documents. The search results may produce many other documents and indeed the required documents may be split over many pages of results. The present invention further describes an algorithm that finds the ideal set of keywords such that the documents required appear close to the top of the search results.

A user launches a search engine to perform an Internet search. The user narrows down a query until the search engine returns the links the user is interested in. For example a user has three web pages they are interested in. Then the user may enter the URLs of these web pages into a system and be given back a set of search keywords. The screen shot in shows a convenient way to choose web pages based on selecting web pages in a browser using a check box next to each link. Notice the check box next to each search result. When the user has selected links from each result page they click the Find Matching Search button as shown in .

The search engine then generates keywords that best reflect the selected pages. This is achieved by performing a content analysis of the pages.

In another embodiment of the present invention a shopping cart approach is utilized. For example a user browses the Internet. Each time the user finds an interesting page the user adds it to his her cart. Once the user has collected enough documents the user decides to check out. Then the system returns a set of keywords that returns the selected pages in the search results by performing a content analysis of the selected pages.

The content analysis works as follows. A web page typically contains the actual content some style sheet information CSS JavaScript and HTML markup. CSS JavaScript and HTML markup may be ignored. Actual contents of selected pages are utilized to extract keywords from the actual content of each selected page. Then the keywords are combined so that the keywords common to all pages are identified excluding common stop words such as the and it . The common keywords are then sorted according to a keyword frequency analysis i.e. the number of times the keywords are used to produce an overall ranking. It is understood that other keyword analysis algorithms can be used instead of the keyword frequency analysis. The search engine then runs a query using just one or few more of the top ranked keywords to see if the selected pages are returned at or near the top of the search results. If they are not then the search engine repeats running a query with more of the top ranked keywords. As more of the keywords are introduced the chance of returning the selected links increases the size of the search query also increases however .

As an embodiment the present invention attempts to keep the number of search terms as small as possible. Fewer terms are generally considered to be more user friendly. As another embodiment the algorithm tries different combinations of the top ranked keywords to discover the best and smallest permutation that returns the links. For example the top ranked keywords as extracted from the selected pages are tennis federer 2007 ball competition sport grand and slam . Then using all these keywords in a search may yield the selected pages. However entering just federer 2007 and slam may also yield the selected pages sufficiently high in the search engine results. Therefore this is a better permutation of words since there are fewer of them. As staged above fewer keywords are better so long as the required documents are still returned sufficiently high in the list of results.

After running content analysis of the selected pages the best matching search keywords are returned e.g. displayed to user as shown at at . The search engine results include the selected links but also more links that typically show good correlation with the selected pages and so are useful to the user. The user is then free to select more links from the results and repeat the above process.

The above process is illustrated in . A user launches an Internet search engine and selects interesting documents which are one or more web sites or URLs from search results in which the user is interested. At step keywords are extracted from the documents. Step removes common stop words such as the and and it and also removes common non domain specific words such as suddenly and attention in the keywords. Step removes words based on a grammatical analysis. So for example it could remove pronouns that he it we prepositions on beneath against and conjunctions and when but leave nouns adjectives and adverbs since these are semantically important words that the algorithm should consider and rank. At step the keywords are saved and processing goes back to Step . Step checks if there are more documents to extract keywords. If all the keywords are extracted from all the documents that user selected step creates a list of words that appear in every document. Step produces an overall ranking list for each keyword according to a keyword frequency analysis i.e. how often a keyword appears in each document. It is understood that other keyword analysis algorithms can be used instead of the keyword frequency analysis. Step puts a top ranked keyword into keyword search list. Step runs search by using words in the keyword search list. In one embodiment step starts with just a single keyword from the ranking list. Each round step takes a new word from the ranking list and adds it to the keyword search list. New word added at each additional round can be one new word at a time multiple words at a time or different number of words at a time etc. for instance depending on design or implementation choice. Step verifies that the selected documents were indeed returned by the keywords entered and that the selected documents are high enough in the search results.

Step indicates a set of search terms that returns the documents at a sufficiently high position in search results has been found. It is up to the user to define how high the documents should appear as shown at at . For example let s say sport and federer return the selected pages on page 22 and 23 of the search results. But the user wants the selected pages on the first two pages of the results. To achieve this Step adds more keywords according to the overall ranking list for example slam and grand thereby making the search more specific to the selected pages. With these keywords sport federer grand and slam the selected pages appear on page 4 but as before this isn t high enough. So the algorithm repeats by adding more keywords from the ranking list.

In another embodiment of the present invention the algorithm tries some different permutations of keywords. For example let s say that sport federer grand sport ball and slam produce the documents on page 2. It may be that removing ball from the keywords does nothing detrimental to the results. So the algorithm is free to try different permutations of the keywords to see if it can remove some as stated above fewer keywords is better . Trying different permutations of the keywords may be performed as a last step once a set of successful keywords i.e. keywords that returns the documents at a sufficiently high position in search results has been determined. How high the documents must go in the search results is defined by the user as shown at at . For example if a user wants the documents on the top page and the keywords Federer and Tennis yield the documents on page 20 in search results then that isn t high enough. So the algorithm would repeat and add an extra keyword from the ranking list e.g. Grand . Then the documents may appear on page 10 of search results but still not be as high as the user requested. So at next loop round the algorithm adds Slam from the ranking list. Now the documents appear on page 1 in search results and the algorithm terminates. Typically asking for the documents to be higher in the search results requires more ranking keywords to be used. If the documents are not found in the search results or not at a high position in the search results step checks if any ranked keywords are left in the ranking list. For example let s assume that a single keyword sport did not pass step . Therefore the algorithm introduces a next keyword federer and repeats the process. If sport and federer do not work either then it introduces another next keyword and so on. The algorithm terminates when all keywords have been used.

Although the embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes and substitutions can be made therein without departing from spirit and scope of the inventions as defined by the appended claims. Variations described for the present invention can be realized in any combination desirable for each particular application. Thus particular limitations and or embodiment enhancements described herein which may have particular advantages to a particular application need not be used for all applications. Also not all limitations need be implemented in methods systems and or apparatus including one or more concepts of the present invention.

The present invention can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods.

Computer program means or computer program in the present context include any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after conversion to another language code or notation and or reproduction in a different material form.

Thus the invention includes an article of manufacture which comprises a computer usable medium having computer readable program code means embodied therein for causing a function described above. The computer readable program code means in the article of manufacture comprises computer readable program code means for causing a computer to effect the steps of a method of this invention. Similarly the present invention may be implemented as a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code means embodied therein for causing a function described above. The computer readable program code means in the computer program product comprising computer readable program code means for causing a computer to effect one or more functions of this invention. Furthermore the present invention may be implemented as a program storage device readable by machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform method steps for causing one or more functions of this invention.

It is noted that the foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent objects and embodiments of the present invention. This invention may be used for many applications. Thus although the description is made for particular arrangements and methods the intent and concept of the invention is suitable and applicable to other arrangements and applications. It will be clear to those skilled in the art that modifications to the disclosed embodiments can be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The described embodiments ought to be construed to be merely illustrative of some of the more prominent features and applications of the invention. Other beneficial results can be realized by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or modifying the invention in ways known to those familiar with the art.

