---

title: Memory card handling for enhancing interactive television services
abstract: An interactive television system is operable to receive television signals and data for implementing interactive television services. At least some of the interactive television data received is stored on a removable, non-volatile memory, such as a memory card or stick. To allow a user to access services, the system is operable to generate a user interface. Services that are available via information stored on a memory card are marked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07908636&OS=07908636&RS=07908636
owner: Electra Entertainment Limited
number: 07908636
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20070712
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of the priority of International Application No. PCT GB2006 000083 filed Jan. 11 2006 which international application is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference. This application furthermore claims the benefit of the priority of United Kingdom GB Patent Application No. 0500579.8 filed Jan. 12 2005 the priority of which United Kingdom patent application is claimed by said international application.

The present invention relates to a television TV apparatus that uses removable memory cards to enhance the quality and availability of interactive television services.

Interactive services to digital television and set top box apparatus have been in operation for a number of years. These generally allocate volatile memory i.e. where memory contents are lost when power is withdrawn usually dynamic random access memory DRAM within the apparatus to temporary storage of an interactive television service content such as games news or TV listings. Often a content item is broadcast alongside a digital television service and shares the same multiplex. In which case a cue for allowing selection of the content item may be displayed over a television programme in a format or style specific to the item. Users may invoke an item of content belonging to an interactive service by selecting a key on a remote control that corresponds to the cue displayed on the screen of the apparatus. The item is downloaded to the storage area from a continuously broadcast data carousel and executed.

The downloaded item may be split into multiple objects some comprising executable application software and others comprising data objects including graphics video text and sound objects. Each object may reference other objects. Objects typically remain in storage until the user selects a cue corresponding to another content item whereupon the previous item is either wholly or partially overwritten by the new item. Hence if the user were to select the original item again its objects must again be downloaded. A problem with this approach is that a user experiences an undesired delay between selecting the cue and the item appearing on the television screen while the item s objects are downloaded to the apparatus. Also the broadcaster must broadcast repetitively each item usually many hundreds or thousands of times during a day. This is wasteful of bandwidth and is costly to terrestrial broadcasters whose bandwidth is often limited compared to those of cable and satellite counterparts.

Another approach is to broadcast content items only a small number of times such as once or twice per day and to cause the apparatus to power up and to store them in non volatile memory a common form being referred to as flash memory . This reduces bandwidth wastage and makes selection of items more responsive because the items do not have to be loaded from a data carousel in real time. However given that volume television receiving apparatus are cost sensitive and that their main purpose is for watching television a disadvantage of this approach is that it loads incremental memory costs onto the apparatus. Alternatively items may be broadcast a small number of times per day and stored in DRAM only. This has the advantage of reducing materials costs and improving responsiveness to user selection of cues but requires the apparatus to be powered up or in low power standby in order not to lose the stored items.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided an interactive television system comprising means for receiving television signals means for receiving data for implementing an interactive television service an internal memory and means for storing the interactive television data on a removable non volatile memory.

Many television apparatus include card readers in order to allow users playback features for example for the display of photographs etc. The present invention takes advantage of this functionality by using the same memory cards to store interactive content items received by a television apparatus. This means that the range of services that the television receiving apparatus can handle can be extended without requiring any significant additional memory to be added during manufacture of the apparatus. The removable memory card is employed to manage and store a range of content items each corresponding to a service including applications and data according to each user s preference and to allow a user to pay for access to content items of a desired service and to execute and render said items securely to the apparatus.

Means may be provided for automatically copying to the removable memory information in an internal memory so that the removable memory acts as a backup. In this way the apparatus provides a user transparent backup facility for volatile content items stored in the apparatus.

Means may be provided for prompting a user to indicate whether interactive television service information is to be stored on the removable memory. This may be done in response to connection of a removable memory device. In particular the apparatus is preferably operable to detect whether a removable memory for example a memory card has been inserted into a card reader connected to the apparatus for the first time. The apparatus prompts the user on whether to reserve storage on the card and tags a portion of the card s non volatile memory accordingly. In the event that the user confirms the prompt the apparatus backs up content previously downloaded to the apparatus volatile memory to a reserved portion of the non volatile memory on the card. Upon powering up the apparatus downloads time date and service version information from a broadcast source reads the content version information stored on the memory card to determine whether the content items are expired and then restores the content objects and data from the memory card to the apparatus s volatile memory if they are not expired.

Means may be provided for generating a user interface using information stored on the removable memory. This may be done by merging information in both the internal memory and the removable memory and using this to provide a user interface that has user selectable interactive services that are accessible via information in both the internal and external memories. Within the user interface user selectable interactive services may be marked to indicate that they are available via the removable memory.

The apparatus may provide a facility for selecting and downloading of content items to external memory cards and for retrieving and viewing of the same via the apparatus at a later time. The apparatus determines which content items may be stored in external removable cards. The apparatus detects whether an unallocated memory card has been inserted into a card reader connected to it whereupon a user is prompted to allocate storage to the card for later downloading to it of content items. Where the apparatus detects that a card with allocated memory is connected the apparatus downloads and displays a menu listing one or a plurality of services. Services whose content items must be stored on a removable card are highlighted differently to those that are stored in volatile DRAM internal to the apparatus. The apparatus determines which services the user selects from the menu.

Preferably the apparatus powers up from standby at pre determined times of the day to download from a broadcast source the objects corresponding to the selected items to DRAM within the apparatus. The apparatus generates digital signatures for the downloaded content objects and stores the signatures in non removable non volatile memory within the apparatus. The apparatus further updates the menu of services highlighting those services whose content items have already been downloaded and stored to the removable card and may be selected by the user for immediate display. Finally on selection by a user of a service from the menu that is stored on a card the apparatus retrieves the service s content items from the removable memory verifies that they are authentic and executes them.

Information relating to one of the services may be presented in a supplemental cell within a services catalogue in response to a user input such as highlighting one of the services. The additional information may be provided in a dedicated area of the screen preferably separate from the services listings.

According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for providing interactive television services to a user comprising downloading interactive television service information to a television system storing the interactive television service information on a removable memory device and using the stored interactive television service information to provide interactive services.

The service operator s data centre receives and aggregates users service requests across a mobile and or fixed telephone network via a request decoder . The request decoder is adapted to decode mobile telephone short message service SMS text messages composed by the user and or dual tone multiple frequency DTMF tones generated by a user pressing the telephone numeric keys . The request decoder is further adapted to determine a user s calling line identification CLI in order to look up a user s account number. The data centre may also receive telephoned vocal service requests from users via call centre .

The operator data centre manages and stores users contact and account details on a database . These details are used for processing incoming registrations and service requests from the request decoder and communicating transactions to credit card and other payment facilities via a financial backbone for broadcasting service entitlement messages over the air via the transaction processor and data carousel . In the embodiment described the database holds one or more telephone numbers that are registered prior to a user s placement of service orders per each user account. The transaction processor is configured to receive service entitlement messages from the operator data centre generate service entitlement management packets addressed to individual users apparatus and broadcast these via the carousel for immediate real time play out. Data is preferably transmitted as one or more modules using the so called DSM CC Digital Storage Media Command and Control carousel . The DSM CC carousel is a data stream transmitted by the broadcasting station alongside television audio video service data where each module comprises executable code and or data components of one or more data objects that may be downloaded by the apparatus.

Several other embodiments may exist for apparatus . For example the functionalities of the STB or the PVR may be integrated or partially integrated with the television and or display . In another embodiment the functionality of the STB or the PVR may be performed by a personal computer PC and the television s screen display function is performed by a display monitor. In yet another embodiment the aerial STB television remote control and screen functionalities may be integrated into a single handheld apparatus such as a cordless or mobile phone PC notebook media player or video jukebox palmtop computer or a personal digital assistant PDA .

In a yet further embodiment apparatus may be linked to the service operator via a network transceiver that is linked to the Internet either directly or via a domestic access point containing a bridge router or gateway function as shown in . Preferably the apparatus is linked via a wireless network such as a Bluetooth wireless local area network LAN or via WiFi according to the public IEEE 802.11a b g LAN specifications or via a wide area mobile telephone network data transmission specification such as the General Packet Radio Service GPRS . In the Bluetooth case the transceiver is a Bluetooth network adaptor and a mobile telephone adapted with a Bluetooth transceiver may take on the role of the access point to the Internet via GPRS. In the WiFi case transceiver is a WiFi network adaptor that may be interfaced to the Internet via a WiFi access point or router .

In such cases where the apparatus is linked to the Internet for the purpose of data exchange the apparatus may continue to receive television channels and other services by broadcast means via infrastructure and aerial . Alternatively or additionally apparatus may receive television channels and interactive television services via the Internet access point and network transceiver . In one embodiment LAN transceiver may be a Bluetooth transceiver wirelessly connected to a local access point function that is incorporated into a mobile telephone where the telephone is connected to service operator via the telephone network or the Internet . Preferably the transceiver is removable from the STB and connectable via a hardware interface such as a USB Universal Serial Bus . Alternatively the hardware interface may be the industry standard PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PC Card 68 pin Type I II or III interface or an SD Card interface.

Users operate a handheld remote control to control the apparatus . shows an example of a suitable handset. Remote control is operable to send commands to apparatus preferably by wireless means. In the preferred embodiment the control uses an infrared transmitter to send commands to apparatus that correspond to keys as they are pressed by the user where such keys include apparatus power ON OFF toggle volume up down channel up down red green yellow blue fastext keys up down left right arrow keys OK select key 0 9 numeric keys labelled with multiple tap alphabetic characters a Back key for reversing out of a user interface selection and a Service key for invoking the apparatus s interactive services. Alternative embodiments for handheld control may include an apparatus whose keys are labelled to correspond to those of a television control apparatus such as may be achieved using a mobile or cordless telephone a standard QWERTY keyboard a personal digital assistant PDA or a touch sensitive handheld display where portions of the display are marked with labels corresponding to television control commands.

The CPU receives user commands from remote control via an infrared receiver . When the STB is in standby a real time clock RTC or countdown timer controls when portions of the STB are to be powered up. In the preferred embodiment when the STB is in standby mode between downloads the CPU and memory operate in a low power mode with all other blocks except an RTC IR receiver and programmable power supply powered off completely. The power supply is controlled by the CPU to apply and remove voltage rails to one or more of the other blocks depending on whether the STB is required to enter an active standby or download state. The STB may have personal video recording PVR features and contain some form of bulk storage interface connected to a hard drive for storage of video and or clips. This would typically be an ATAPI or SCSI hard disk interface but any popular bulk data storage interface standard may be implemented.

The STB contains a programmable tuner which is connected to receive DVB T broadcasts via an aerial . Additionally or alternatively the tuner may receive cable and satellite transmissions. Loader software is stored in the flash memory . By means of the internal data bus this loader software is operable to program the tuner and de multiplexer to receive and decode any MPEG2 transport stream channel present at aerial including the streams channel carrying the service operator s transmissions. The tuned transport stream is applied to a de multiplexer where elementary audio video and data streams can be extracted. Video data streams are applied to the MPEG 2 and or MPEG 4 video decoder . The output of this decoder is then combined with the on screen display to provide the video signal to the television . The on screen display is responsible for displaying all graphical outputs to screen . The video mix and scale function are capable of scaling the decoder video in order to present a reduced size live video display anywhere on television screen .

In use the service operator broadcasts a software stack including operating system and multimedia playback environment for downloading by the apparatus into integral non removable volatile DRAM memory. This is done when the apparatus is not in use or has been placed in a low power standby mode. Periodically the apparatus loads objects belonging to service content items such as for example an electronic programme guide or a game into DRAM. The allocation of memory within the apparatus is shown in . An area of STB memory within a volatile portion of dynamic random access memory DRAM the so called canister memory area is reserved exclusively for storage of downloaded object data that comprise the interactive service from the service operator . With current memory costs and addressable limitations the size of the canister memory area is typically 16 to 32 Mbytes.

Another area of memory a so called scratchpad area is temporarily reserved for the storage of intermediate or temporary data during execution of an application or while processing downloaded objects such as for example a service catalogue. In a preferred embodiment the scratchpad area is composed of DRAM but in other embodiments of the apparatus such as within a hard disk based personal video recorder PVR the scratchpad may comprise hard disk storage or a combination of hard disk storage and DRAM. A small area of DRAM is additionally allocated to storage of transient apparatus parameters that denote the status of the apparatus s connectivity to external devices such as for example whether a memory card is connected to the apparatus s memory card reader and the properties of both devices. The transient parameters are updated by the flash loader program see below upon power up of the apparatus and periodically thereafter by polling by the CPU of external connection interfaces such as USB port s or card ports .

Portions of non volatile integral flash memory are allocated to storage of firmware and data associated with maintenance of the canister and service content items stored within it and are arranged and referenced as a file system. The firmware includes a bootstrap loader program in integral flash memory which is executable code that controls the download of objects from burst broadcasts and generates loaded data objects within the canister . To maximise the apparatus s flexibility throughout its service life only minimum functionality is burnt into the flash loader . The remaining transient portion of the bootstrap loader is downloaded to volatile memory at the commencement of downloads from burst broadcasts and is wholly or partially erased after the download has occurred.

Decoder and translator programs are also stored in integral flash . These are software modules that may be called by the flash loader and or transient loader to process downloaded objects. For example the canister loader may first be required to invoke a decryption decoder to render an object to clear text. Another decoder may be invoked subsequently to decompress the clear text object. Preferably all executable objects are broadcast in a device independent form. Preferably the canister loader invokes a translator to convert device independent executable objects to a form where they are directly executable by the apparatus s central processor unit CPU . Also within the flash memory is an apparatus adaptation layer . This has apparatus specific code stored in flash that binds the canister to the apparatus s native drivers and operating system STAPI and OS20 in the preferred embodiment and hardware ST5100 in the embodiment described . This will be described in more detail later.

Other firmware and data that are stored in integral flash include apparatus parameters apparatus cookies application cookies executable signatures burst times and locations and service entitlement cookies . The apparatus parameters may be brand model number and hardware characteristics such as CPU speed screen resolution size of canister scratchpad memory allocations and types of connection interfaces e.g. PC Card USB SD Card attached if any. These are burnt into non volatile memory during manufacture and are read only throughout an apparatus s service life. The apparatus cookies are small data files that comprise application independent apparatus configuration information such files including those containing an account number and a user s personal identification number PIN corresponding to a pre registered account which information must survive power loss.

The application cookies are small data files that hold certain states of an application that are to be restored the next time it is invoked. For example an electronic programme guide application may permit a user to remove or order certain channels in his her set up preferences by saving the configuration as a cookie . Or for example a game application may log a user s name and high score as a cookie . Or for example an entitlement message may have been downloaded and stored as a cookie for later reference by an application that is associated with a particular service to determine whether access is to be given to all or certain portions of the service s features or content .

The digital signatures are the results of hash function computations of trusted executable code objects. These signatures are compared against those computed against objects from external un trusted devices such as a memory card for verification that the external object is from an authorised source. The service entitlement cookie is a small file that contains information relating to a user s entitlement rights in respect of a service or a group of services. For example a user may have subscribed to a service indefinitely or for a set period or based on a number of service uses. All of this information would be included within the entitlement cookies .

Removable memory cards may be connected to the apparatus via card reader interface . Alternatively a removable USB memory pen may be attached to interface port . In either case the apparatus recognises the memory device upon connection and attempts to mount said device s external file system onto its integral file system . Thus when mounted additional files such as a memory file extension file AllocatedMemory see later and additional directories and files can be read from written to modified deleted appended to or executed by the operating system.

The pop up informs the user that a memory card has been inserted into the apparatus. It also displays the amount of free storage currently on the memory card a minimum amount of storage corresponding to the size of the canister memory and a maximum amount of storage corresponding to the amount of free card memory available capped to a finite limit. The pop up invites the user to key in preferably using the numeric keys a storage allocation to be reserved by the apparatus on the memory card between the minimum and maximum levels. The user inputs a storage value into a data entry display box or presses the back key to clear the pop up immediately if storage is not required. If storage is required the apparatus writes a file AllocatedMemory onto the memory card of size equivalent to the input storage value and then copies the contents of the canister memory into the canister shadow memory range on the card . If storage is not required the apparatus writes an empty file AllocatedMemory to the card so that a user is not prompted a second time when the card is next inserted for another purpose e.g. to view photographs stored on it .

The apparatus periodically downloads content items from the service operator and writes these to its volatile canister memory . Each time a download occurs the apparatus attempts to make a backup of the objects associated with each item within the canister to the shadow memory space if a valid memory card is inserted. The process is shown in . This is transparent to a user without making or seeking a prompt. When one or more objects has been loaded into the canister the apparatus determines that the card is valid by detecting the existence of a file AllocatedMemory on the memory card of sufficient size to back up the canister memory when a card is inserted . If AllocatedMemory is of sufficient size the apparatus copies the canister objects into a pre determined storage range within the file AllocatedMemory to form a copy of the canister objects .

Each time the apparatus wakes from standby it attempts to restore service items and objects such as for example the operating system to the canister memory from a memory card in preference to waiting to download them from a scheduled broadcast . This is useful because it shortens the period during which the apparatus is unusable after power up. illustrates this process. When the apparatus powers up it determines whether a storage file AllocatedMemory of sufficient size is present within a memory card if one is inserted . The apparatus reads the version numbers and identifiers for each object stored within the canister shadow memory of file AllocatedMemory . The apparatus programs the tuner and de multiplexer to download the service catalogue for content items stored in the canister. For each object listed in the catalogue the apparatus verifies that an object of the same identifier and version number already exists in shadow memory and if so copies the object to the volatile canister memory . Thus the apparatus reliably restores from a memory card a copy of its canister s contents where the card s content items are up to date and prevents display to the user of content items that are out of date.

Many forms of content item may be downloaded to memory cards. These may include media services where the content comprises text or a marked up text such as for example created using the HTML and XML formats a picture such as for example created using the JPEG PNG format an audio such as for example created using MP3 or OGG format or a video clip such as for example created using the MPEG 2 or MPEG 4 encoding formats an executable application such as for example comprising Java bytecode Java Script or machine code or some combination thereof.

Applications may comprise an electronic game or may enable a user to benefit from additional functionalities in apparatus such as a calendar or contact address book. The service application may permit the user to use the apparatus to record and or play back television programmes or extracts thereof to a removable memory card for later play back by either the apparatus or another device such as a mobile telephone or a personal digital assistant PDA . Alternatively an application may permit the apparatus to save still pictures taken from television programmes to the apparatus s memory or to a memory card connected to the apparatus for later play back or display by the apparatus as a screen saver or background to a graphical user interface. Additionally an application may permit a motion video still picture or audio extract from a television programme or advertisement to be saved to a portion of a memory card that is not allocated to the apparatus .

Another example of a service is an audience measurement application for use by broadcasters and audience researchers where information corresponding to the identities of radio and television programmes and channels displayed at any given time by the apparatus are saved to the memory card. A further instance is an application that permits the user to transfer extracts of television programmes or other media content such as a downloaded ring tone or screen saver to another device such as a mobile telephone or a personal digital assistant PDA via a wireless network transceiver connected to the apparatus. Yet another instance may comprise an application that permits a user to view modify or play back media content stored on a portion of the memory card that is not allocated to the apparatus . For example a service may comprise a photograph viewing application that allows a user to view rotate and or edit a digital photograph and re store the result back onto a memory card. Alternatively a service may comprise an audio mixing application that allows a user to play and mix together a plurality of soundtracks and restore the edited result back onto a memory card.

The service operator may broadcast additional service content for reception by apparatus for storage on memory cards. This provides a useful convenient means whereby a user can extend the capability and usefulness of the apparatus during its lifetime. Users may press a service key to leave full screen television viewing and cause a service menu to be displayed as shown in . Preferably the television channel viewed in full screen mode is displayed in reduced scale within the service menu without interruption to the audio component. The service menu includes a plurality of cells each of which corresponds to an interactive television service that is available to the user. When in this service menu users can select and activate any one of the services displayed.

Each of cells correspond to a service that has previously been selected by a user and downloaded to the apparatus and whose content is stored either in the canister or on the non volatile memory card . Each cell may enclose a distinctive feature such as a title label or graphic that allows the service to be identified by the user. Each cell may further display an icon or label to denote the physical source of the content of the service to which it corresponds. The icon may be displayed inset within or immediately adjacent to the cell . Preferably cells that correspond to services whose content items are stored to a removable memory card are marked with a card shaped icon .

One of the cells is highlighted differently from the remaining cells such as by using a different shading or border in order to show to the user that the cell is in focus. The user may move the focus between cells by pressing the arrows keys to cause the focus to move in the direction of the arrow key pressed until a desired cell is in focus. Pressing the OK key activates and displays the service corresponding to it. Alternatively the user may activate an item by pressing a number key corresponding to a number label displayed inset within or adjacent to the desired cell. A panel that contains descriptive or promotional information relevant to the cell in focus is displayed simultaneously with the cells . As the user moves focus between cells the panel is updated to include information pertinent to the new cell in focus. A scroll arrow is displayed when more services can be reached than are displayed on the screen. Cells corresponding to these are reached by pressing the page up or down keys according to the direction of the scroll arrow . The user may cause the apparatus to perform an action corresponding to an action cell by pressing a handset key whose colour corresponds to the cell s colour and where the action is described by either a text label or a graphical icon inset within or immediately adjacent to the cell .

A card services action cell is included within the services menu of . The user may add remove services to from the service menu by pressing a hot key that corresponds to the action cell . This causes display of an on screen catalogue of services whose contents items download to the memory card as shown in . Once in this screen a user may press arrow keys to navigate focus between cells in a column or grid in the same manner to that described for the service menu . Each cell corresponds to an item of content available for downloading to the memory card and later displayed by the apparatus. Each cell is labelled with a content item s name or title e.g. Met Office World Weather or some other identification such as a logo. Each cell also has a tick box that contains a tick or some other symbol or label to denote whether its service is selected for downloading. The catalogue further informs the user of the services for which the content items are stored on the inserted memory card in up to date form. This is done by highlighting their corresponding cells differently such as shown in by the shaded cell areas compared to cells of services that are not up to date or stored to the card. Preferably this method of highlighting depicts up to date services with cell areas shaded in one colour whereas the areas corresponding to out of date services are depicted in another colour. Either a pick or drop label is displayed according to whether the focussed cell s box is clear or contains a tick. A user may toggle between selection and de selection of a service by pressing the hot key corresponding to as shown in .

A user needs sufficient information on screen to decide quickly which services to select from the catalogue . For this reason the catalogue s display is organised to provide all pertinent information on a single screen. A horizontal bar displays descriptive text to indicate how much card memory has been allocated to a service. A proportion of bar is sized in width according to the memory requirement of the service corresponding to the cell currently in focus as a proportion of stored service memory on the card. A further proportion of bar is sized in width according to the total amount of unallocated externally stored services memory excluding that corresponding to the cell in focus as a proportion of the total amount of stored service memory on the card. An information box is displayed in response to the currently focussed cell and contains its corresponding service s title pricing information a description of the service s content editorial star rating parental rating and memory requirement. A second information box not responsive to the focussed cell displays general user information and help tips.

On receiving a user input request to display the catalogue the apparatus programs the tuner and de multiplexer to receive the data stream from the service operator containing catalogue information . The apparatus downloads the service catalogue data to scratchpad DRAM . For each service in the catalogue the apparatus evaluates a Boolean expression TargetExpression to determine whether the service is compatible with the apparatus s memory resources CPU speed and graphics capabilities and can be downloaded . Where a service is compatible the apparatus displays the catalogue details ServiceTitle Description TimeDate to the screen as shown in . If a service entitlement cookie is found for the service and its corresponding identity is found on the memory card a tick marker is displayed within its cell to show that it has previously been marked for downloading.

The user may further select services corresponding to unmarked cells for downloading from the on screen catalogue causing them to be marked as follows If the user selects a pay service the apparatus determines whether the user has previously pre registered an account with the operator by checking within the file system for the existence of an apparatus cookie containing registration parameters hi the embodiment described these parameters include the user s account number and PIN. If the cookie is found the apparatus displays a pop up message over the catalogue menu display containing instructions for the user to communicate the service s identity and to authenticate him herself using the PIN to the service operator . In the embodiment described the user communicates the order details and PIN to the service operator within a mobile telephone text message that is transmitted by the user across the mobile telephone network to the operator s request decoder . However where a network transceiver is connected to the apparatus the information is preferably communicated to the service operator via the network transceiver internet access point and the Internet .

The service operator processes the order authenticates the user and transmits an entitlement message addressed to the apparatus via the broadcast infrastructure . The apparatus receives the message filters against its own its address and stores it as a service entitlement cookie redraws marker as a ticked marker and removes instructions or replaces the instructions with temporary display of an acknowledgement. The identity ServiceId of the selected service is saved to non volatile card memory see for later reference by the apparatus during downloading . The download times TimeDate and locations TransportStreamId and PacketId are written to integral flash .

Some services may require a payment to be made by the user to the service operator before they may be downloaded to the apparatus and accessed. Account details are pre registered by a user with the service operator for this purpose as shown by step in . In the preferred implementation of step the apparatus displays its machine address and a message directing the user to open an account by displaying a universal resource locator URL corresponding to a world wide web site accessible via the Internet where the user may communicate to the operator the apparatus address his her postal address payment details telephone number and PIN. When a valid account is formed the operator broadcasts the account s registration details to the apparatus address for downloading as a service entitlement cookie .

To minimise apparatus power consumption each service s content items are broadcast a small number of times each day in bursts of high data rate when the apparatus is not in use as shown in . The times and locations of these bursts TimeDate TransportStreamId and PacketId are downloaded from the service catalogue data stream and stored within the apparatus in non volatile memory . When the apparatus s tuner and de multiplexer are not in use for example because the apparatus is in low power standby or because the apparatus has determined that it is not attended by a user due to a minimum time period since the last command from the remote control having been exceeded the apparatus reads the burst time and location data to determine when the next service broadcast is scheduled to commence. At a short interval before said time the apparatus programs the tuner and de multiplexer to receive the scheduled service content items .

All executable objects require authentication that they are bona fide objects broadcast by the service operator prior to loading and execution in order to protect against viruses being loaded and executed from the memory card. If the object s header indicates that the object is an executable the apparatus generates a digital signature as a mathematical hash function of the object and saves the signature in the executable signatures area within its integral non volatile memory . Each object is processed according to its type so that objects containing encryption flags are decrypted prior to storage and executable objects are translated from a generic instruction set to the instruction set employed by the apparatus s CPU and compiled and linked. The processed object is written to the service memory within the card . The process continues until all objects have been downloaded to the memory card .

By storing at least some interactive services data on the memory card the present invention extends the range of interactive television functions potentially available to users without increasing the internal hardware requirements of the user s television apparatus. This is advantageous.

A skilled person will appreciate that variations of the disclosed arrangements are possible without departing from the invention. For example many of the functional elements described with reference to may be combined on a single large scale integration LSI silicon component such as STMicroelectronics STi5100 chipset in the case where the apparatus is a digital television receiver all the functions described with reference to are resident within the television chassis. Accordingly the above description of the specific embodiment is made by way of example only and not for the purposes of limitation. It will be clear to the skilled person that minor modifications may be made without significant changes to the operation described.

