---

title: Output restoration with input selection
abstract: A method for restoring visual output to a display device. The method includes detecting a display device connection change on an output connector and changing output settings to a compatible output mode on the output connector. The method further includes cloning graphics output to the output connector. The graphics output is modified for display on the output connector. The display device is signaled to change the input source to correspond to the output connector. Subsequently, a control panel application is executed to present an on-display control for changing the output mode of the first output connector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09110624&OS=09110624&RS=09110624
owner: NVDIA CORPORATION
number: 09110624
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070921
---
This application is related to commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 903 291 entitled LOAD SENSING FORCED MODE LOCK by Herz et al. which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

Increasing distribution of digital content has helped the growth of more advanced display technologies such as high definition televisions. At the same time computers have developed an increasing role in entertainment systems and thus are connected with high definition devices such as televisions. In order to get the best possible visual experience the output settings need to match content format and the capabilities of the display device. Therefore there are times when a user will need to change the resolution of the output or when a new device is connected.

A problem exists however when the user sets output settings e.g. resolution or refresh rate beyond the capabilities of a display device. For example the user may be trying to watch a high definition DVD and sets the display resolution to a 1080 p while the display device e.g. plasma television only supports a display resolution up to 720 p. Such changes to the display resolution are typically implemented via a television handheld remote control that manipulates one or more on screen menus e.g. a menu of options graphically presented on the television screen . Upon pressing the remote control button to select the high resolution the user will then be presented with either a blank screen or a corrupted and incomprehensible video signal because the display device is not capable of displaying the output.

Some prior art solutions have attempted to solve this problem e.g. the user selecting an unsupported display resolution by waiting for the user to acknowledge that the resolution change worked. If no acknowledgement is received within a defined time out period the resolution is restored to the previous working resolution. Unfortunately this time out method is not consistently reliable because depending upon how it is implemented e.g. set top box media center PC etc. the timeout function may freeze or stop functioning.

With respect to PC based systems e.g. small form factor set top box PC systems wired or wirelessly connected PCs etc. the software based functionality e.g. operating systems of the systems may not provide even a time out mechanism. In this case the user will be stuck with the unsupported resolution. For example the user may be stuck with a blank screen because he she cannot see an application on screen control panel menu or the like to fix the output settings. Being suddenly confronted with a blank screen the user may also not realize what the mistake was and further be stuck because he she does not know how to go about fixing the problem. In some instances the only solution to restore the resolution is to reboot or restart the computer system.

In some instances the user may then try to unplug the current display device and plug in another display device in an attempt to regain comprehensible visual output. Unfortunately the output settings may exceed the capabilities of the newly attached display device and the user remains stuck with incomprehensible display device output.

Display devices often have multiple inputs which may be used to drive the visual output of a display device. Given the plurality of inputs on a display device it may be confusing and time consuming for a user to cycle through the various input sources to find the input source corresponding to the recently connected connector. Once the user connects a new display device or a different display device connector the display device may not be using the appropriate input as a source for visual output. The user may then become confused because he she will then need to manually change the input the display device is using for visual output. For example a user may have unplugged the HDMI connection and connected the composite connection the user may become confused after connecting the composite connector and not seeing visual output on the display device. The user will then need to change the input on the display device to the composite input in order to restore visual output of the display device.

Thus a need exists for a reliable way for visual output of a display device to be automatically restored after a user has disconnected or connected a display device so that the output is not left at a resolution unsupported by a display device. What is further needed is a way to automatically return to a displayable resolution and the corresponding input selected so the user is not presented with a blank screen and thus no on screen menu or interface that can correct the problem. The required system should be transparent and intuitively comprehended by the user.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a solution that enables a user to reliably restore the output to settings supported by a display device. Embodiments of the present invention further provide a user with a transparent and intuitively comprehended system for restoring output settings and usability of a display device.

In one embodiment the present invention is implemented as a method for restoring display output to a display device e.g. LCD display projection TV display plasma display and the like . The method includes detecting a display device connection change e.g. connection or disconnection on an output connector e.g. HDMI DVI and the like and in response output settings e.g. resolution and or refresh rate are changed to a compatible output mode e.g. NTSC standard 480i etc. on the connected output connector. The display device is signaled to change the input source to the input corresponding to the connected output connector. The graphics output is cloned to the output connector such that the graphics output is modified for display on the output connector. Additionally a control panel application is executed to present an on display control for changing the output settings.

In this manner embodiments of the present invention implement a reliable way for a user to restore the display output to a mode that will be supported by the display device and the visual output is automatically restored via changing to the appropriate input on the display device. The user can be provided with an option to turn on a redundant connection mode that will automatically initiate the restoration of the display to a compatible resolution upon the connection or disconnection of a display device thereby for example greatly assisting the user in those circumstances where the user inadvertently changes the output mode of the display output to an unusable output. Additionally the user may be presented with the option to select the connected display device. The corresponding information about the selected device may be used to signal the display device to change inputs. The input on the input on the display device may then be changed to an input corresponding to a connection supporting a compatible output mode.

In another embodiment the present invention is implemented as a system for outputting graphics. The system includes a plurality of output connectors e.g. DVI VGA Component etc. for coupling a plurality of display devices. The display devices are driven by a display processor for handling graphics processing and outputting video signals on the plurality of output connectors. A second processor controls a plurality of functions of the display processor by executing a display driver and an application for changing a plurality of graphics settings of the display device. When a display device is connected or disconnected the display processor is signaled and the output settings of at least one output connector are set to a compatible output mode e.g. 480i . The connection or disconnection of a display device further facilitates the signaling of the display device to change the source input corresponding connected connector.

In another embodiment the present invention is implemented as a method for restoring visual output on a display device via a second output connection. The method includes checking if a redundant display mode is enabled. If a redundant display mode is enabled a plurality of video signals is broadcast to plurality of output ports coupled to a display device. An interrupt signal is received in response to a disconnection or connection of a display device from a graphics processing unit. In response to the interrupt signal output settings are reconfigured for at least one of the connected plurality of output ports to a compatible output mode e.g. 480i or the like . Information is transmitted to the display device to change the selected input source on the display device to at least one connected output connector. Additionally an output settings configuration application is invoked for changing the output settings for said plurality of output ports.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the following detailed description of embodiments of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments of the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure computer executed step logic block process etc. is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present invention discussions utilizing terms such as processing or accessing or executing or storing or rendering or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system e.g. computer system of or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The CPU and the GPU can also be integrated into a single integrated circuit die and the CPU and GPU may share various resources such as instruction logic buffers functional units and so on or separate resources may be provided for graphics and general purpose operations. Accordingly any or all the circuits and or functionality described herein as being associated with the GPU can also be implemented in and performed by a suitably equipped CPU . Additionally while embodiments herein may make reference to a GPU it should be noted that the described circuits and or functionality can also be implemented and other types of processors e.g. general purpose or other special purpose coprocessors or within a CPU.

System can be implemented as for example a desktop computer system or server computer system having a powerful general purpose CPU coupled to a dedicated graphics rendering GPU . In such an embodiment components can be included that add peripheral buses specialized audio video components IO devices and the like. Similarly system can be implemented as a handheld device e.g. cell phone etc. or a set top video game console device such as for example the Xbox available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or the PlayStation3 available from Sony Computer Entertainment Corporation of Tokyo Japan. System can also be implemented as a system on a chip where the electronics e.g. the components and the like of a computing device are wholly contained within a single integrated circuit die. Examples include a hand held instrument with a display a car navigation system a portable entertainment system and the like.

Embodiments of the present invention implement a method and system for the restoring output so that graphics output is visible on a display device. The method includes detecting a display device connection change on an output connector changing output settings to a compatible output mode on the output connector cloning graphics output to the output connector wherein the graphics output is modified for display on the output connector signaling the display device to change the input source of the display device and executing a control panel application to present an on display control for changing the output settings. The present invention may be invoked by a user connecting or disconnecting a display device when the output on a display is blank corrupted or incomprehensible in order to restore the output to a visible format. In one embodiment upon the connection of a compatible output mode connector e.g. composite output settings are automatically adjusted to a lowest common denominator for the connection e.g. 480i for a composite connection . In another embodiment when an output compatible mode connector and another connector e.g. HDMI are connected output will be sent out over both outputs with a compatible output mode e.g. 480i being output over the output compatible mode connector. Additionally when more than one connector is connected output settings for all connectors may be set to compatible output modes upon the connection or disconnection of an output connector. Embodiments of the present invention and their benefits are further described below.

Input device s may include devices such as a remote control mouse keyboard or the like. Input device s may be coupled to processing unit and processing unit via one or more of a plurality of connectors. Input device s may be used to select a head or connector resolution e.g. 480i or 480 p etc. format e.g. NTSC or PAL and other output settings. In one embodiment processing unit is a graphics processing unit e.g. GPU of and is responsible for handling graphics data and rendering graphics data for output on outputs s and output s to display device . The input device s may be used to enable a mode for restoring the output of processing unit to display capable output settings for display on display device . Display Device detection e.g. load detection or device signaling such as IC based signaling on various output connectors may further act as an input device by acting as a stimulus for processing unit to restore output to an output compatible mode on one or more connectors. For example if the user sets a resolution that is too high or exceeds the capabilities of display device display device may show nothing or corrupted or incomprehensible images and a user may then disconnect or connect to the output connector which signals processing unit that visual output needs to be restored to an output compatible mode to allow the user to select the appropriate resolution for display device .

In one embodiment the connection or disconnection of a display device e.g. display device generates a pulse which is received over a general purpose input output GPIO pin. The connection or disconnection of a display device may result from a user trying to regain visual output on a display device. Embodiments of the present invention can intelligently react to such a disconnection and interpret the disconnection reconnection as the user attempting to restore a proper screen output on the display. Processing unit may respond by triggering an event with sets off an interrupt to the driver of processing unit . The driver of processing unit responds by configuring output settings to a compatible output mode e.g. 480i on compatible mode output s e.g. CVBS or composite . The driver may achieve a compatible output mode by scaling down the output and modifying the output timing corresponding to the compatible output mode as described further herein. In one embodiment where a single graphics output is used to connect to a display device the connection or disconnection of the display device causes a compatible output mode on the single output connector.

After a display device connection change e.g. connection or disconnection processing unit or may then facilitate a change in the input used for visual output. A determination of the appropriate compatible output connector may be made based on a plurality of connections enumerated that are connected to a display device s . Display device may be signaled by signaling device to perform a variety of functions including changing the input source. Information may be accessed corresponding to the required signaling of the display device to perform various functions including but not limited to changing the selected input on the display device. Further the appropriate signal output settings and compatible output mode may be determined based on EDID or information set via an output settings application e.g. control panel application . For example if a user has disconnected HDMI and connects an S Video connection display device may be signaled to change the input source from HDMI to S Video. In one embodiment a set of generic or universal signals may be used to invoke the various functions of display device .

Signaling device may be any of a plurality of wireless and wired devices connectors or ports including but not limited to infrared IR emitter USB Universal Serial Bus serial Ethernet radio frequency RF or home automation e.g. X10 . In one embodiment the appropriate signal is transmitted to display device based on the currently connected connections or a plurality of available enumerated connections. Signaling device may be coupled to both or either processing unit and processing unit . Signaling device may further be coupled to processing unit or processing unit via a GPIO pin. It is appreciated that signaling device may be part of system or system such as a network adapter or USB ports or a standalone device.

Processing unit may be coupled to processing unit . In one embodiment processing unit e.g. CPU may execute a display driver for controlling a plurality of functions and operations of processing unit and may execute an application for changing a plurality of graphics settings e.g. a control panel application .

In one embodiment a button on input device s e.g. remote control may be used to enable or set a redundant display mode. For example when a user is first setting up or configuring a computing system he or she may be presented with the option to enable a redundant display mode to assist the user in recovering from the situation where display settings exceed the capabilities of a display device. An output settings application e.g. control panel application may also allow a user to enable a redundant display mode at any time.

In one embodiment processing unit may clone output on output s to output s so that a user can switch to output s e.g. composite and be guaranteed visual output via output s . It is appreciated that output s and output s may be coupled to different display devices and embodiments of the present invention facilitate the restoration of output settings corresponding to the display device which is displaying incomprehensible output.

In one embodiment output s may be digital output s and output s may be analog outputs. For example output s e.g. HDMI DVI or display port may be used for outputting a high definition signal e.g. 720 p to a display device e.g. plasma television . Output s e.g. composite or S video may be activated and a compatible mode e.g. 480i is broadcast over output s after a signal is received to restore visual output. In one embodiment all outputs may be configured to a compatible output mode e.g. 480i .

A control panel application may be invoked which allows a user to change the display settings to restore the output settings on output s . For example the user may switch over to the composite input on display device which is being driven by 480i output of output s and use the control panel application to adjust the output settings for output s back to a resolution supported by display device e.g. 720 p . The output of output s may be cloned to output s and adjusted corresponding to a compatible output mode e.g. resolution output timing and refresh rate . The cloning of outputs output s to output s facilitates the use of the control panel where only one instance of the control panel is allowed. In one embodiment the control panel application may have a user interface suitable for viewing on a television from a distance e.g. living room setting .

The embodiment illustrates example components or modules that in various embodiments are instantiated and executed by a CPU e.g. CPU of and or a GPU e.g. GPU under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. However it should be appreciated that the aforementioned components of system can be implemented in hardware or software or in a combination of both and that various other components or variations of the components recited in system can be used to implement the functionality of embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment as depicted in system includes output connect disconnect event redundant display mode request event a processor engine e.g. as executed by hardware software of a GPU control panel application control panel service app display device enumeration app and graphics driver which includes resource manager interrupt service routine ISR and display driver . Control panel application may include display device control application and display device enumeration application .

Processor engine may receive signals from output connect disconnect event and redundant display mode request event . It is appreciated that processor engine may receive signals via other buttons and interfaces with the same signal being issued to processor engine . For example processor engine may receive an output connect disconnect event as an interrupt signal generated after a DVI connection is disconnected. It is further appreciated that output connect disconnect event may be based or initiated on load detection hot pluggable standards or device signaling e.g. via IC .

After a user has changed the output resolution the output of a coupled display device e.g. display may be blank corrupted or otherwise incomprehensible video. The user may trigger an output connect disconnect event in a variety of ways. For example the user may attempt to restore output by plugging in another display device or unplugging and reconnecting the same display device. Processor engine may receive a redundant display mode event from an input device as described herein. For example a user may enable a redundant display mode during the set up of a computing system such that output will be set to a display capable resolution when a connection change is detected e.g. output connect disconnect event .

Processing engine may then signal resource manager that visual output needs to be restored. In one embodiment processing engine generates an interrupt based on output connect disconnect event or redundant display mode event which is handled by interrupt service routine module ISR which is part of resource manager . Resource manager may be part of a graphics driver which runs in protected or kernel mode of an operating system.

In one embodiment as part of handling the interrupt interrupt service routine module may signal display driver that the output needs to be restored. Display driver may then modify the graphics processing of processor engine as described further below with reference to .

In one embodiment interrupt service routine invokes control panel service application . In another embodiment display driver may invoke control panel service application . Control panel service application may then invoke control panel application . Control panel application allows a user to change the output settings for the various connectors coupled to a display device. For example if a user can no longer see visual output on a display device via an HDMI connection the composite output may be used to restore visual output to the display device and the user may use the control panel to adjust the output settings on the HDMI cable. In one embodiment where there is a single connector changes to output settings may be not be executed or carried out until another output is connected. For example output settings may be adjusted via a composite connection but not applied until HDMI connected.

Control panel application may signal or invoke display device enumeration application which enumerates or determines the connected display devices and the connections used to connect the display devices. Information determined by display device enumeration app may be used to choose an appropriate connector which is supported by a vast majority of devices e.g. composite or S video to output a compatible output mode. For example where a first output is connected to DVI and a second output is connected to YPrPb the output on the YPrPb connection may be configured for a compatible output mode. It is appreciated that a compatible output mode can be a lowest possible resolution 480i or another output mode e.g. 720 p tailored to the display device based on information provided by EDID or during the setup process. In one embodiment the default output connector for compatible output mode is CVBS.

Control panel application may further signal or invoke display device control application . Display device control application may access display device information that was stored or selected via an output settings application e.g. control panel application . In one embodiment the information may have been selected or stored during setup. The display device information may be used by display device control application to facilitate control of various functions of a display device e.g. display device . Display device control application may facilitate the signaling of a display device via a signaling device e.g. signaling device which may be communicatively coupled to a computing system e.g. system or other device as described herein. For example upon adjustment of graphics output settings as described herein display device control application may signal a display device to change the input used for visual output to the input corresponding to the compatible output mode connector e.g. composite . It is appreciated that display device control application may signal a change of input to any of the inputs available on a display device.

The following discussion sets forth in detail the operations of the present technology for restoring visual output on a display device. With reference to flowcharts and each illustrate example blocks used by various embodiments of the present technology. Flowcharts and include processes that in various embodiments are carried out by a processor under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. Although specific blocks are disclosed in flowcharts and such blocks are examples. That is embodiments are well suited to performing various other blocks or variations of the blocks recited in flowcharts and . It is appreciated that the blocks in flowcharts and may be performed in an order different than presented and that not all of the blocks in flowcharts and may be performed.

At block a display device connection change e.g. connection or disconnection on a first output connector is detected. In one embodiment when the composite or CVBS connection is made the graphics driver locks the output head to CVBS output and the resolution to a compatible mode output e.g. 480i for NTSC . Load sensing may be performed on the CBVS connection and the digital to analog converter. As described herein the load sensing may be coupled to a GPIO pin of a graphics processing unit GPU . In one embodiment the change of a connection to a display device may be detected via Hot Plug Detect HPD .

At block a signal is generated for a display driver executing on a computer system. A pulse as described herein may be received by a GPU and a signal e.g. interrupt is generated for service by a display driver. In one embodiment an interrupt generated by a GPU is handled by an interrupt service routine module which is part of a graphics driver.

At block a plurality of display device connections are enumerated. In one embodiment the display device connections are determined or examined and used for determining which output connections are most suitable for outputting a compatible output mode. For example if a display device is connected via DVI and S video a determination may be made to use S video for outputting a compatible output mode. In another embodiment display device connection enumeration may be invoked via an application programming interface API call.

At block a connector supporting a compatible output mode is determined. In one embodiment based on the plurality of display device connections enumerated a display device connection supporting a compatible output mode is selected. For example if there are multiple connections enumerated such as a composite connection and a HDMI connection the composite connection may be determined to be the compatible output mode connector to be used in facilitating the restoration of visual output on the display device. It is appreciated that the output connections may be selected in numerous ways. It is further appreciated when there is a single connection to a display device a compatible output mode may be determined for that connection and the graphics output settings may be modified corresponding to the output compatible mode of that connection.

At block output settings are changed to a compatible output mode on the output connector. It is appreciated that the output settings can be adjusted in numerous ways as described herein. For example in the case where the display is a NTSC capable display the output settings e.g. output timings and resolution may be adjusted to 480i to ensure that visual output to the display device is restored.

At block graphics output is cloned to the output connector. In one embodiment cloning is outputting the same graphics content on each connector. As described herein graphics output from the output connection with non comprehensible visual output may be cloned and adjusted for output in a compatible output mode as described herein. For example a 1080i signal may be scaled or only a portion the graphics content displayed at a time both of which facilitate the restoration of visual output on the display device. The cloning may further involve changing the resolution aspect ratio refresh rate and the like and may be set to widely supported settings 480i or based specific device information e.g. EDID .

At block the display device is signaled. The display device may be signaled as described herein via a display signaling device e.g. signaling device coupled to a processor e.g. processor or processor or the like via a plurality of connections e.g. USB serial RF IR or Ethernet . As also described herein the display device may be signaled to change the input source to a compatible output mode connector just connected and thereby facilitate the automatic restoration of visual output without requiring the user to change the input source on the display device.

At block a control panel application is executed. The control panel as described herein allows the user to adjust output settings for each of the output connections. For example visual output may have been restored via a composite connector and the user may use the control panel application to adjust output settings for a DVI connector which is currently incomprehensible.

At block a check as to whether a redundant display mode is enabled is performed. The redundant display mode ensures that output to a compatible mode output connection e.g. composite is at output settings e.g. resolution supported by all display devices e.g. 480i . In one embodiment the redundant display mode may be an option which the user can choose to enable at setup or via a control panel application. In one embodiment when a redundant display mode is enable and an output connector e.g. DVI is coupled to a display device a message may be displayed informing the user to connect the CVBS connection.

At block a plurality of video signals are broadcast to a plurality of output ports coupled to a display device. A redundant display mode may enable broadcasting of multiple video signals over independent outputs to a display device so that the user can easily and quickly switch inputs and restore visual output on the display device.

At block an interrupt signal is received. As described herein the interrupt may be generated by a GPU in response to signal from an input device or a signal resulting from the connection or disconnection of a display device. In one embodiment the interrupt signal may be received by a display driver and will be handled by an interrupt service routine module.

At block an application for performing display device detection on the plurality of output ports is signaled. As described herein an interrupt service routine module of a display driver may invoke e.g. via an API an application for enumerating output ports via display device detection.

At block output settings for at least one of the connected plurality of output ports is reconfigured to a compatible mode. The display driver as described herein may adjust output settings e.g. output timing and resolution on at least one of the output ports to a compatible output mode which restores visual output to the display device. For example the output settings of the composite connection may be set to 480i to ensure compatibility with display devices. In another embodiment the display driver may adjust output settings on all output ports to restore visual output on the display and the user is not required to switch the input on the display device.

At block graphics output is scaled for output in an output compatible format. The display driver may scale or reduce the resolution to suit the compatible mode output e.g. 480i in such a way as to retain usability of the graphics output. For example graphics output of 1280 720 may be scaled down to 720 480 for output via a composite connector.

At block a portion of graphics content is outputted to the display device. In one embodiment the portion output by the display driver corresponds to the compatible output mode. For example if the graphics output is 1920 1080 a portion corresponding to 720 480 may be output on the display device. In one embodiment that user may pan and scan or navigate around in areas corresponding to the compatible output mode and the portion visible on the output device. In another embodiment a fixed portion of the graphics output is displayed. For example the upper left portion of graphics output is displayed.

Referring back to at block display device information is accessed. As described herein the information accessed may be a display device profile or the like which contains model and signaling information including but not limited to the appropriate signal to change the input source on the display device. In one embodiment the information may have been stored or selected by a user via an output settings application e.g. control panel application .

At block information is transmitted to the display device. As described herein the information transmitted to the display device may invoke various functions of the display device including changing the input source. Thus the input of the display device may be set to the connection that has just been connected by a user and the corresponding graphics output settings have been modified as described herein.

At block an output settings application is invoked. As described herein the output settings application may be invoked by a display driver or display driver service application and allows a user to adjust output settings for each output connection or port. In one embodiment the control panel may be invoked in the location corresponding to the portion of graphics being displayed. For example where a fixed upper left portion of graphics content being output the control panel window or interface may be located in the upper left portion to ensure a user can adjust the output settings.

At block a system is booted. The system may be a computing system which has multimedia capabilities and is connected to a display device e.g. LCD HDTV and the like that has been restarted or booted from a turned off state.

At block a control panel application is started. The control panel application as described herein may start and run in a hidden or invisible mode so that it is quickly available to change output settings and sense changing in load or forced mode switches e.g. user invokes output settings changes .

At block display device detection is performed. The load e.g. electrical may be detected on each output interface e.g. S Video YPrPb or composite or the display device may be signaled via IC e.g. VGA DVI or HDMI as described herein. For example an HDMI and composite connection may be detected. During display device detection extended display identification data EDID may be received which describes the capabilities of a display device.

At block a check if there is a load on an output compatible mode connector is made. As described herein display device detection or enumeration may be performed to determine if a widely supported compatible output mode connector e.g. CVBS or S video is connected.

At block a check if this is the first boot of the system is performed. First boot information may be stored on a storage device e.g. hard drive within the computing system.

At block the resolution is set based on EDID. During the first boot output settings such as resolution may be set based on the EDID which provides information on the capabilities of a display device.

At block the last or previous display or output settings are reinstated. When the boot sequence is determined to be other than a first boot previous display settings may be applied.

At block a check if there is a change to the mode setting or connectors is performed. More specifically a check may be made if different connectors or different output settings have been applied.

At block a resolution change form is presented. The resolution change form may be part of an output configuration or control panel application as described herein.

At block the resolution is changed. A resolution change may be applied after being selected by a user from within an output configuration tool which may exceed the capabilities of the display device and result in loss of visual and comprehensible output.

At block a check is made if a request to restore output is made. In one embodiment the request may have been made via a remote control button or chassis button as described herein by a user in response to a resolution change which resulted in output of a display device being incomprehensible. In another embodiment the request may have been received when the user connected or disconnected a display device.

At block a display device input source is set. As described herein the input source that the display device uses to provide visual output may be set to the corresponding connector supporting a compatible output mode. For example if a user disconnects an HDMI connector and then connects a composite connection the display device may be signaled to change the input source to the composite connections as a source for visual output. The user will thus be able to change connectors and have visual output restored without having to change the input source on the display device.

At block output is changed to a compatible output mode. As described herein the output may be activated on a compatible output mode connector e.g. composite and the output configured to a compatible output mode e.g. 480i or otherwise tailored to the display device e.g. based on EDID and the like .

At block a redundant output mode is enabled. As described herein the redundant output mode may be enabled via an input device e.g. remote control .

The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed and many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

