---

title: Towline guide clip
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a towline guide clip, an apparatus that can hold a towline in place as it is dragged behind a large host marine vessel attempting to recover a small marine vessel. The towline guide clip is designed to gradually release the towline when a small marine vessel grabs hold of the line. The additional dragging force of the small marine vessel pulls the towline out of the towline guide clip so that the towline can then be reeled in by a winch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07461610&OS=07461610&RS=07461610
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07461610
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070731
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to floating towlines on docking ships. In particular the present invention is directed to a floating towline assembly that employs towline guide clips to make the towline more accessible.

There exists a need to facilitate the process of recovering small sea vessels onto larger host ships by way of a stern ramp. During normal recovery the process takes a skilled boatman to navigate a small vessel up a stern ramp. The process is even more difficult at high sea states. Small vessel recovery is often facilitated by use of a floating towline that is dragged behind the ramp of the larger host ship. The towline is anchored at one end to prevent that end from moving. The other end of the towline is controlled via a winch onboard the large host ship. As the towline is being dragged behind the ramp in a large loop the smaller vessel will grab the towline with a hook in a similar motion to that of a shirt hangar being hung up on a closet pole. After the hook has latched onto the towline the winch will begin to reel in the towline thereby pulling the smaller vessel into the larger host ship.

When the towline is being dragged from the larger host ship the impending shape of the towline must be controlled. The towline is difficult to capture with a latch hook when it takes a very acute v shape as it is being dragged through water. The optimum shape for a floating towline is a wide loop perpendicular to the direction that the large host ship is moving. To create the optimum shape the towline would have to be separated before being dragged behind the host ship in the water.

One way to create the optimum shape for a towline would be to space the winch and towline anchoring mounting plate far enough apart. Forcing the winch and mounting plate for the anchor end of the towline apart however limits the available spacing as well as the distance the rope could be trailed behind the host ship. Furthermore as a smaller vessel is towed towards the host ship the angle that the towline would pull from would grow larger in respect to the centerline of the winch creating a less efficient system for the winch. The winch and mount plate for the anchor end of the towline therefore should be placed in the centerline of the large host ship so that the small vessel is towed directly up the ramp to maximize the efficiency of the winch. A compromise between easily grabbing the rope and maximizing winch efficiency is to temporarily create the optimum shape of a wide loop through the use of a guide and release mechanism for the towline that holds the optimum shape of the towline until a small vessel hooks the line after which the mechanism releases the towline.

Mechanisms have been created to release a towline under certain circumstances. Common applications for towline release mechanisms are in use in the fishing industry. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 197 223 to Spurgeon discloses a mechanism called the downrigger line tender control wherein a line is held in a certain position and under certain loading conditions the line is released. In the downrigger line tender control however the line being held in position is not allowed to move until the outside loading conditions are presented. This mechanism is not suitable for the launch and recovery of small vessels onto larger host ships by way of a stern ramp because the towline must be capable of being reeled out while in the guided condition to adjust the length of towline being dragged behind the larger host ship. The mechanism also attaches to another line not a stable platform. What is needed is a guide and release mechanism for a towline that allows the towline to maintain its optimum shape to be easily hooked and maximizes winch efficiency.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide a towline guide clip that will hold a towline while a host ship is underway and under tension from drag create the optimum towline shape in the water.

It is a further object that when the tension in the towline is increased by a greater pulling force from a small vessel latching onto the towline that the towline guide clip will release the towline to make a direct line of tension between a winch on the host ship and the smaller vessel.

The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of towline guide clips that are mounted at either side of the stern ramp opposite each other and that hold the towline in the optimum position while it is being dragged behind the host ship. The towline guide clips are spring loaded with a tension that is capable of holding the towline under minimum drag force conditions as it is dragged behind the host ship but that will release the line as the drag force increases when a smaller ship latches onto the towline.

Referring to and there is illustrated the towline guide clip in use and the progression of the towline being released from the towline guide clip . In the towline in only under tension from being dragged behind a host ship. The drag forces are not sufficient to pull the towline out of the towline guide clip . In the towline in under greater tension from the additional force of a small vessel that has just hooked the towline . The additional force applied to the towline by the small vessel pulls the towline into the end of the teardrop shaped hole in the towline guide clip causing the towline to begin to wedge itself free of the towline guide clip . In the towline is under maximum tension because of the drag from the small vessel and completely free of the clip.

Referring to there is illustrated an exploded view of the present invention. The towline guide clip is similar to a clothespin in that the body of the apparatus comprises two fastening appendages and . They are identical in size shape and material. When the two fastening appendages and are joined together they form the tear drop shaped hole . This is the portion of the apparatus that holds the towline and allows it to be properly retained while still capable of being reeled in and out. A unique feature of the teardrop shaped hole is the fairlead rounded edge that has a radius as illustrated in . The rounded edge allows for minimal wear on the towline which becomes increasingly important due to the fact that the towline will have to be a plastic product capable of floating in water. The teardrop shape is used so that when the towline is put under increased tension and forced to release from the towline guide clip the towline will put equal force on both the top and bottom fastening appendage and . The equal force placed on both the top and bottom fastening appendage and will allow for a consistent release of the towline from the towline guide clip .

The two fastening appendages and are hinged at one end and are held in a clamped position by way of a spring force. The spring force is provided by two compression springs and that are fitted into cylindrical apertures and within each of the respective fastening appendages and . Unlike a clothespin however the towline guide clip allows the towline to move inside of the teardrop shaped hole with a fairlead edge allowing for reel out of the towline . The two fastening appendages and hinge about a shoulder bolt that also serves to connect the two fastening appendages and together. The shoulder bolt is inserted through the four bolt holes and located in the two fastening appendages and . The bolt holes are located in the two protruding sections and of the two fastening appendages and . When the two protruding sections and are joined they form the knuckles of the hinge part of the towline guide clip . The four bolt holes and are placed concentrically within the rounded protruding sections and therefore making easy alignment with the two fastening appendages and . The shoulder bolt is fastened to the two fastening appendages and body by a washer and nut . The shoulder bolt will essentially act as pin in a hinge assembly. The shoulder of the bolt will be just slightly longer than width of the fastening appendages and so that when the nut is secured it tightens up against the face of the shoulder and not the towline guide clip so as not to prevent or hinder opening and closing movements of the two fastening appendages and

The two compression springs and are secured to the fastening appendages and with a shoulder bolt that passes through the counter bored cylindrical apertures and . Washers and and nuts and hold the springs and onto the two fastening appendages and . The counter bored cylindrical apertures and are large enough to allow complete containment of the compression springs and within the exterior of the fastening appendages and

The shoulder bolt that penetrates the middle of the towline guide clip is a fully threaded bolt. This is the portion of the mechanism that provides the clamping force of the towline guide clip . The shoulder bolt that penetrates the middle of the towline guide clip body performs two main tasks providing the means for compression force and providing the means for fastening the towline guide clip to a support structure .

Referring to and there is illustrated a specific process to follow when assembling the towline guide clip . The shoulder bolt will penetrate a washer compression spring and fastening appendage in order and then fastening appendage compression spring and then a washer . A nut will be placed on the shoulder bolt and screwed on to start compressing the compression springs and to create a clamping force. When the desired clamping force is accomplished a second nut that serves as a jam nut will be placed adjacently to the first nut . Both nuts and will be tightened together so that there will be no movement of the first nut while the jam nut sets the clamping force of the towline guide clip . The second task of the threaded shoulder bolt is fastening to the towline guide clip to support structure . The support structure lies at the end of the stern ramp on both the port and starboard side giving the towline the necessary separation distance to get the ideal towline geometry. The threaded shoulder bolt penetrates the support structure . A pair of washers and straddle the plate. The support structure with washers and will butt up against the jam nut . A lock nut will fasten the towline guide clip to the support structure . The locknut will be secured to the bolt but not so tight as to render the towline guide clip fixed immovably to the support structure . It is necessary to allow the towline guide clip to swivel under direction from tension of the towline and locate itself to best release the towline .

The towline guide clip is designed to allow for adjustment to the compression force preset on the compression springs and . This is especially useful when the diameter of the towline changes or the drag force is increased to due to higher traveling rates of the larger host ship.

During normal operation a pair of towline guide clips will be mounted on each side of a stern ramp that is on a larger host ship. During recovery of the small vessel the towline will be reeled out to a point where the towline could be secured within both towline guide clips and also in the water to be dragged. The towline will be dragged behind the large host ship in the desired geometry shape due to the towline guide clips . When the smaller vessel approaches the larger vessel it will grab the towline with the hook and then start to decelerate. When the small vessel decelerates the large host ship will be traveling faster. At that point a direct line of tension will start to be created from winch to small vessel back to the mounting plate of the towline anchor which will put additional tension on the towline . At that point a time when tension is greater than drag forces but less than towing force the towline guide clips will release the towline . The winch will begin to reel in aiding the small vessel in boarding the stern ramp

The towline guide clip can be constructed out of a variety of materials. The preferred material is a hard plastic. Other options include aluminum steel stainless steel and other hard materials to hold up to the forces generated by the compression springs. However when dissimilar metals are present in an electrolytic environment galvanic corrosion could occur. Considering the fastening devices including nuts bolts and washer will most likely be stainless steel the plastic would be the preferred material for the towline guide clip .

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

