---

title: Free air burning smoking articles with reduced ignition proclivity characteristics
abstract: Smoking articles having reduced ignition proclivity characteristics are disclosed. Smoking articles include a paper wrapper that is treated with a film-forming composition. The film-forming composition forms treated discrete areas on the wrapper. The treated discrete areas reduce ignition proclivity properties of the smoking article made with the wrapper. The film-forming composition contained a film-forming material blended with a burn promoting agent in the absence of a burn retardant. In one embodiment, for instance, the film-forming composition consists essentially of a film-forming material and a burn promoting agent. Various advantages and benefits are realized by blending a film-forming material with burn promoting agent without also incorporating a burn retardant into the composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08869805&OS=08869805&RS=08869805
owner: Schweitzer-Mauduit International, Inc.
number: 08869805
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070601
---
The present application is based upon and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 809 905 filed on Jun. 1 2006.

There is an ongoing concern in the tobacco industry to produce cigarettes having wrappers which reduce the ignition proclivity of the smoking article or the tendency of the smoking article to ignite surfaces which come into contact with the lit smoking article. Reports have been made of fires attributed to burning cigarettes coming into contact with combustible materials. A justifiable interest exists in the industry to reduce the tendency of cigarettes or other smoking articles to ignite surfaces and materials used in furniture bedding and the like upon contact.

Thus a desirable feature of smoking articles particularly cigarettes is that they self extinguish upon being dropped or left in a free burning state on combustible materials.

It has long been recognized in the tobacco industry that the cigarette wrapper has a significant influence on the smolder characteristics of the cigarette. In this regard various attempts have been made in the art to alter or modify the cigarette wrappers in order to achieve the desired tendency of the cigarette to self extinguish or in other words to reduce the ignition proclivity characteristics of cigarettes.

The prior art describes the application of film forming solutions to cigarette paper to reduce the paper permeability and control the burn rate. It has been shown that when these materials have been applied in discrete areas along the length of the cigarette the cigarette shows a reduced propensity to ignite a substrate tends to self extinguish and has a higher puff count.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 878 753 to Peterson and U.S. Pat. No. 5 820 998 to Hotaling et al. which are incorporated herein by reference for example describe a smoking article wrapper being treated with a film forming aqueous solution to reduce permeability. U.S. Pat. No. 5 878 754 to Peterson which is also incorporated herein by reference describes a smoking article wrapper being treated with a non aqueous solution of a solvent soluble polymer dissolved in a non aqueous solution to reduce permeability.

Although many improvements have been made in the art there is still a need for an improved method for producing a cigarette wrapper with reduced ignition proclivity properties. For example problems have been experienced in producing a smoking article that self extinguishes when left burning on an adjacent surface but does not self extinguish when left in a free air burning state such as when a cigarette is being held and not puffed or when a cigarette is propped in a ashtray. Specifically problems have arisen in designing smoking articles as described above on a repetitive basis.

Another problem that has been experienced in designing smoking articles with reduced ignition proclivity characteristics is that the treated areas on the smoking articles have a tendency to adversely affect the taste and enjoyment of the article. For example typically the smoking articles include a paper wrapper having treated areas separated by untreated areas. The smoke components and the taste of the article has a tendency to change as a burning coal advancing along the article advances from an untreated area to a treated area.

Likewise problems have also been experienced in controlling the ash properties of the smoking articles. In general a white and cohesive ash is desired. The ash characteristics however have a tendency to change as the burning coal advances from an untreated area to a treated area. A need currently exists for a paper wrapper that not only reduces the ignition proclivity characteristics of a smoking article but also does so without substantially affecting the ash characteristics of the article.

The present disclosure is generally directed to paper wrappers for smoking articles with reduced ignition proclivity and to a process for making the wrappers. For example in one embodiment the paper wrapper can be made from a paper web. For example the paper wrapper can contain flax fibers softwood fibers hardwood fibers and mixtures thereof. The paper wrapper can also include a filler such as calcium carbonate or a magnesium oxide in an amount from about 10 to about 40 by weight.

A film forming composition is applied to the paper wrapper at particular locations. The film forming composition form treated discrete areas on the wrapper. The discrete areas are separated by untreated areas. The treated discrete areas are configured to reduce ignition proclivity of a smoking article incorporating the wrapper. For example the treated areas can reduce ignition proclivity by reducing oxygen to a smoldering coal of the smoking article as the coal burns and advances into the treated areas.

In accordance with the present disclosure the film forming composition contains a film forming material blended with a burn promoting agent but being free of a burn retardant. The present inventor has found various advantages and benefits to blending a burn promoting agent and a film forming material in the absence of a burn retardant. For instance such a combination allows better control over the burn properties of a resulting smoking article. In particular treated areas on a paper wrapper in accordance with the present invention can be constructed so that the smoking article self extinguishes when left burning against an adjacent surface but yet will not self extinguish if left burning in a free air state. In addition to having better control over the burn properties the combination of the film forming composition and the burn promoting agent improves the taste and uniformity of the smoking article especially when compared to other formulations where a burn retardant is present. Finally the blend can also improved the ash properties of the smoking article and reduces spotting in the banded areas.

The film forming material can be for instance an alginate such as sodium or potassium alginate. It should be understood however that various other film forming materials can be used. Other film forming materials that are believed to be useful in the present invention include guar gum pectin polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl acetate cellulose derivatives such as ethyl cellulose methyl cellulose carboxymethyl cellulose starch and starch derivatives.

The burn promoting agent blended with the film forming material can be for instance an alkali metal salt or an alkaline earth metal salt. In one particular embodiment for instance a carboxylic acid salt may be used. Particular examples of burn promoters that may be used in various embodiments include an acetic acid salt a citric acid salt a malic acid salt a lactic acid salt a tartaric acid salt a carbonic acid salt a formic acid salt a propionic acid salt a glycolic acid salt a fumaric acid salt an oxalic acid salt a malonic acid salt a succinic acid salt a nitric acid salt a phosphoric acid salt or mixtures thereof. The burn promoter may be present in the film forming composition in an amount from about 0.1 to about 5 by weight such as from about 1 to about 3 by weight.

In one particular embodiment the film forming composition may comprise a blend of an alginate with a citrate a succinate or a mixture of a citrate and a succinate.

The film forming composition can be applied to the paper wrapper according to various methods. For example the composition can be printed onto the paper using for instance flexography direct gravure printing and offset gravure printing.

In one embodiment the discrete areas formed by the film forming composition are in the shape of circumferential bands disposed longitudinally along the smoking article. The bands can have a width of greater than about 3 mm such as from about 4 mm to about 10 mm.

The bands can be spaced from each other at a distance of from about 5 mm to about 50 mm and particularly from about 10 mm to about 40 mm.

The amount of the film forming composition that is applied to the paper wrapper depends upon the particular application and various factors. For example the film forming composition can be applied to the wrapper in an amount from about 1 to about 30 by weight based upon the weight of the wrapper within the treated areas and particularly in an amount from about 2 to about 20 by weight.

Once applied to the paper wrapper the treated areas can have a permeability of less than about 40 Coresta particularly less than about 30 Coresta and more particularly from about 5 Coresta to about 25 Coresta. The initial permeability of the paper wrapper can be from about 20 Coresta to about 110 Coresta or greater. For example the initial permeability of the paper wrapper may be greater than about 60 Coresta such as greater than about 80 Coresta.

In addition to containing a film forming material and a burn promoting agent the film forming composition may include various other ingredients. For example in one embodiment the film forming composition may contain a particulate inorganic filler.

The film forming composition when applied to the paper wrapper may be contained in an aqueous solution or may be contained in a non aqueous solution. When contained in a non aqueous solution for example an alcohol may be present. As described above however particular advantages and benefits of the present invention are achieved when the film forming composition does not contain a burn retardant as described in greater detail below.

Once the film forming composition is applied to the paper wrapper the paper wrapper within the discrete areas may have a Burn Mode Index within a particular range that indicates reduced ignition proclivity characteristics. The Burn Mode Index hereinafter BMI for example may be less than about 5 cm such as less than about 3 cm.

The paper wrapper may have any suitable basis weight depending upon a particular application. In one particular embodiment for instance the paper wrapper may have a basis weight of from about 18 gsm to about 60 gsm. In addition to containing a first burn promoting agent within the treated areas the paper wrapper may also be treated with a second burn promoting agent over substantially the entire surface area of the paper wrapper. For example the second burn promoting agent may be applied to the paper wrapper prior to or after the treated areas are formed. The second burn promoting agent may be applied to the paper wrapper in amounts from about 0.1 to about 3 by weight. The second burn promoting agent may be the same or different from the first burn promoting agent that is blended with the film forming material.

Repeat use of reference characters in the present specification and drawings is intended to represent same or analogous features or elements of the present invention.

Reference now will be made in detail to the embodiments of the invention one or more examples of which are set forth below. Each example is provided by way of explanation of the invention not limitation of the invention. In fact it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For instance features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used on another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover such modifications and variations.

For purposes of explanation of the invention the embodiments and principles of the invention will be discussed in regards to a cigarette. However this is for the purposes of explanation of the invention only and is not meant to limit the invention only to cigarettes. Any manner of smoking article is within the scope and spirit of the invention.

The present disclosure relates to a smoking article and a wrapper for a smoking article having improved ignition proclivity control characteristics. Ignition proclivity is a measure of the tendency of the smoking article or cigarette to ignite a flammable substrate if the burning cigarette is dropped or otherwise left on a flammable substrate. A test for ignition proclivity of a cigarette has been established by NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology and is generally referred to as the Mock Up Ignition Test . The test comprises placing a smoldering cigarette on a flammable test fabric and recording the tendency of the cigarette to either ignite the test fabric burn the test fabric beyond a normal char line of the cigarette burn its entire length without igniting the fabric or self extinguish before igniting the test fabric or burning its entire length.

Another test for ignition proclivity is referred to as the Cigarette Extinction Test . The Cigarette Extinction Test is ASTM Test No. E2187 04. In the Cigarette Extinction Test a lit cigarette is placed on ten layers of filter paper. If the cigarette self extinguishes the cigarette passes the test. If the cigarette burns all the way to its end on the filter however the cigarette fails. Smoking articles made in accordance with the present invention can be designed to pass one or both of these tests.

In addition to the above tests smoking articles having reduced ignition proclivity cigarettes are typically also tested for free air self extinguishment FASE . During the free air extinguishment test the smoking articles are allowed to burn in the free air without being puffed and without being placed on an adjacent surface. In most applications it is desirable for a smoking article to pass the mock up ignition test or the cigarette extinction test while not self extinguishing when left burning in the free air. Thus lower FASE rates are preferred. Of particular advantage smoking articles constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention may be configured to self extinguish when placed on an adjacent surface but yet have lower FASE rates in comparison to prior products that are intended to have reduced ignition proclivity characteristics.

In general smoking articles having reduced ignition proclivity are made according to the present invention by applying in discrete areas to a wrapping paper a film forming composition. The film forming composition contains a film forming material blended with a burn promoting agent. Further in addition to blending the burn promoting agent with the film forming material prior to application to the paper wrapper the film forming composition is also free of any burn retardant. The present inventor has discovered that various benefits and advantages are achieved when combining a burn promoting agent with a film forming material in the absence of a burn retardant.

In the past the assignee of the present application has obtained various patents directed to smoking articles with reduced ignition proclivity characteristics. For example paper wrappers treated with a film forming composition that forms treated discrete areas on the wrapper are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 779 530 and 6 725 867 which are both incorporated herein by reference. The 530 patent for instance also discloses that the wrapping paper may be treated with a burn control additive such as an alkali metal salt an acetate or a phosphate salt. The burn control additive however was applied over substantially the entire surface area of the paper wrapper and was not intimately incorporated into the film forming composition prior to application to the paper.

Further U.S. Pat. No. 6 837 248 discloses a reduced ignition propensity smoking article which discloses a wrapper that includes at least one discrete area treated with a composition to reduce the base permeability. The composition of the treated area includes a permeability reducing substance a burn rate accelerating substance and a burn rate retarding substance. The burn rate retarding substance is a substance that reduces the smolder rate of materials such as paper cloth and plastic and that increases the resistance of the materials to flaming combustion. Examples of burn rate retarding substances disclosed in the 248 patent include phosphates of ammonium such as diammonium phosphate which is also known as DAP.

The present inventor however has discovered unexpectedly in view of the teachings of the 248 patent that various advantages and benefits are achieved when a burn retardant is not present in a film forming composition comprising a film forming material blended with a burn promoting agent. For example the present inventor has found that by only including a film forming material blended with a burn promoting agent better control over the burn properties of a smoking article incorporating a treated wrapper results. In particular while having reduced ignition proclivity characteristics such smoking articles have a reduced tendency to self extinguish in free air when not being puffed.

In addition a burn retardant may adversely affect the taste of the smoking article. Blending a burn promoting agent with a film forming material has been found to produce smoking articles that when puffed through the treated areas have a more pleasant or neutral taste. Further the taste is more uniform when either the smoking article is puffed in an untreated area or in a treated area.

The above advantages are especially enhanced when the burn promoting agent is intimately mixed with the film forming material prior to application to the paper wrapper as opposed to applying the materials in separate steps.

In addition to the above smoking articles made in accordance with the present invention have also been found in some applications to have improved ash properties. For instance an ash produced by a smoking article made in accordance with the present invention may have a relatively white color is cohesive and is less likely to change in color or consistency when the lit coal burns through the treated areas and the untreated areas of the wrapper.

Similarly the blended combination of a film forming material and a burn promoting agent without the presence of a burn retardant has found to reduce spotting in the treated areas as the burning coal approaches the treated areas.

It is believed that the general principles of the present invention can be used in conjunction with any suitable film forming material in producing a film forming composition. For example film forming materials that can be used in accordance with the present invention include alginates guar gum pectin polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl acetate cellulose derivatives such as ethyl cellulose methyl cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose starch starch derivatives and the like.

In one particular embodiment the film forming material may comprise an alginate. In general an alginate is a derivative of an acidic polysaccaride or gum which occurs as the insoluble mixed calcium sodium potassium and magnesium salt in the Phaeophyceae brown seaweeds. Generally speaking these derivatives are calcium sodium potassium and or magnesium salts of high molecular weight polysaccarides composed of varying proportions of D mannuronic acid and L guluronic acid. Exemplary salts or derivatives of alginic acid include ammonium alginate potassium alginate sodium alginate propylene glycol alginate and or mixtures thereof.

In one embodiment a relatively low molecular weight alginate may be used. For example the alginates may have a viscosity of less than about 500 cP when contained in a 3 by weight aqueous solution at 25 C. More particularly the alginates may have a viscosity of less than 250 cP at the above conditions particularly less than 100 cP and in one embodiment at a viscosity of about 20 60 cP. As used herein viscosity is determined by a Brookfield LVF Viscometer. Commercially available alginates that may be used include KELGIN RL MANUCOL LD AND MANUCOL LB which are all commercially available from the ISP Corporation.

At the above lower viscosity levels alginate compositions can be formed at a higher solids content but yet at a low enough solution viscosity to permit the application of the composition to a paper wrapper using conventional techniques. For example the solids content of an alginate solution made in accordance with the present invention can be greater than about 6 particularly greater than about 10 and more particularly from about 10 to about 20 by weight.

At the above solids levels alginate compositions used in accordance with the present invention can have a solution viscosity of greater than about 250 cP particularly greater than about 500 cP more particularly greater than about 800 cP and in one embodiment at a viscosity of greater than about 1 000 cP at 25 C. In general the solution viscosity of the alginate film forming composition can be adjusted depending upon the manner in which the composition is being applied to the paper. For instance the solution viscosity of the composition can be adjusted depending upon whether or not the composition is being sprayed onto the paper or printed onto the paper.

In other embodiments it should also be understood that depending upon the application a relatively high molecular weight alginate may be used. For example the alginate may have a viscosity of greater than about 500 cP when contained in a 3 by weight aqueous solution at 25 C.

The burn promoting agent that is combined and blended with the film forming material prior to application to the wrapper may comprise any suitable substance that enhances the burn rate. Examples of burn promoting agents include alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment the burn promoting agent may comprise a salt of a carboxylic acid. In particular examples for instance the burn promoting agent may comprise an acetic acid salt a citric acid salt a malic acid salt a lactic acid salt a tartaric acid salt a carbonic acid salt a formic acid salt a propionic acid salt a glycolic acid salt a fumaric acid salt an oxalic acid salt a malonic acid salt a succinic acid salt a nitric acid salt a phosphoric acid salt and mixtures thereof. In one particular application for instance the burn promoting agent may comprise potassium citrate sodium citrate potassium succinate sodium succinate or mixtures thereof.

In addition to the film forming material and the burn promoting agent the film forming composition applied to the paper wrapper can contain various other ingredients as long as the composition does not contain a burn retardant.

For instance in one embodiment a filler can be contained within the composition. The filler can be for instance calcium carbonate calcium chloride calcium lactate calcium gluconate and the like. In addition to calcium compounds other metal compounds can also be included including similar magnesium compounds.

The film forming composition in one embodiment can be water based. In particular the film forming composition may comprise an aqueous dispersion or aqueous solution. Alternatively the film forming composition prior to being applied to the paper wrapper may comprise a non aqueous solution or dispersion. In this embodiment for instance an alcohol may be present for applying the composition to the wrapper.

Once the film forming composition is formulated the composition is applied to a paper wrapper in discrete areas. The manner in which the composition is applied to the paper wrapper can vary. For example the composition can be sprayed brushed or printed onto the wrapper. To form a treated area the composition can be applied in a single pass or in a multiple pass operation. For instance the composition can be applied to the wrapping paper in successive steps in order to form areas on the paper having reduced ignition proclivity. In general during a multiple pass process the treated areas can be formed by applying the composition during from about 2 to about 8 passes.

In order to assist in describing and explaining the present invention one embodiment of the invention is illustrated generally in . A smoking article cigarette generally having improved ignition proclivity characteristics includes a tobacco column within a wrapper . Article may include a filter . Wrapper may include any manner of commercially available cigarette wrapper.

Generally the wrapping paper can be made from cellulosic fibers obtained for instance from flax softwood or hardwood. In order to vary the properties of the paper as desired various mixtures of cellulosic fibers can be used. The extent to which the fibers are refined can also be varied.

For most applications the paper wrapper will contain a filler. The filler can be for instance calcium carbonate magnesium oxide or any other suitable material. The total filler loading added to the paper wrapper can be between about 10 to about 40 by weight.

The permeability of a paper wrapper for smoking articles made according to the present invention can generally be from about 10 Coresta units to about 200 Coresta units. In some applications the permeability can be between about 15 Coresta units to about 55 Coresta units. In one embodiment of the present invention however the initial permeability of the paper wrapper is relatively high. For instance in one embodiment the permeability of the paper wrapper can be from about 60 Coresta units to about 110 Coresta units. In various embodiments for example the initial permeability of the paper wrapper may be greater than about 70 Coresta units greater than about 80 Coresta units greater than about 90 Coresta units or greater than about 100 Coresta units.

The basis weight of cigarette wrapping paper is usually between about 18 gsm to about 60 gsm and more particularly between about 15 gsm to about 40 gsm. Wrapping papers according to the present invention can be made within any of these ranges.

In addition to having the first burn promoting agent contained within the film forming composition in one embodiment the paper wrapper may be treated with a second burn promoting agent. The second burn promoting agent for example may be applied over substantially the entire surface area of the wrapping paper especially over the surface area of the wrapping paper where the treated areas are located including the untreated areas spaced between the treated areas. The second burn promoting agent may comprise the same material as the first burn promoting agent. For example the second burn promoting agent may be for instance an alkali metal salt such as an acetate a citrate or a succinate. The second burn promoting agent may be applied relatively uniformly over the surface area of the paper wrapper in an amount from about 0.3 to about 5 by weight such as from about 0.3 to about 2.5 by weight. The second burn promoting agent may be applied to the wrapper prior to or after the treated areas are formed on the wrapper using the film forming composition.

The second burn promoting agent may be applied to the wrapper for various reasons. For example the second burn promoting agent may be applied so as to further control the burn properties of the wrapper especially in the untreated areas on the wrapper. The second burn promoting agent may also serve as an ash conditioner.

In one alternative embodiment of the present invention the second burn promoting agent may be applied to the paper wrapper in the untreated areas only. In this embodiment the second promoting agent may be applied in amounts as specified above within the untreated areas.

Paper web defines an outer circumferential surface when wrapped around tobacco column . Discrete areas of outer circumferential surface are treated with a film forming composition made in accordance with the present invention such as an alginate composition blended with a burn promoting agent. It should also be understood that treated areas could also be disposed on the inner surface of wrapper . In other words wrapper could be rolled around tobacco column so that treated areas are adjacent to the tobacco.

In the embodiment illustrated in treated areas are defined as circumferential cross directional bands . Bands are spaced apart from each other longitudinally along the length of cigarette . The bands are indicated in phantom in . However it should be understood that the treated areas are essentially invisible in the formed cigarette as shown in . In other words a smoker may not discern from any outward sign that the wrapper has been treated in discrete areas . In this regard treated areas have a smooth and flat texture essentially the same as untreated areas .

The width and spacing of bands are dependent on a number of variables such as the initial permeability of wrapper density of tobacco column etc. The bands preferably have a width so that oxygen is limited to the burning coal for a sufficient length or period of time to extinguish the coal. In other words if band were too narrow the burning coal would burn through band before self extinguishing. For most applications a minimum band width of 3 mm is desired. For example the band width can be from about 4 mm to about 10 mm.

The spacing between bands is also a factor of a number of variables. The spacing should not be so great that the cigarette burns for a sufficient length of time to ignite a substrate before the coal ever burns into a treated area . The spacing between bands also affects the thermal inertia of the burning coal or the ability of the coal to burn through the treated bands without self extinguishing. In the cigarettes tested applicants have found that a band spacing of between 5 and 50 mm is appropriate and particularly between about 10 mm and 40 mm. However it should be understood that the band spacing can be any suitable width as determined by any number of variables. For most applications the smoking article can contain from 1 to about 3 bands using the above spacing.

Treated areas have a permeability within a range which is known to provide improved ignition proclivity characteristics for the make up of cigarette . As the coal of cigarette burns into treated areas oxygen available to the burning coal is substantially reduced due to the decreased permeability of wrapper in the treated areas. The reduction of oxygen preferably causes the cigarette to self extinguish in the treated areas when in contact with a substrate. The permeability for instance may be less than 40 ml min cm CORESTA particularly less than 30 ml min cm and generally within a range of 5 to 25 ml min cm.

Besides permeability another measurement that can be used to indicate reduced ignition proclivity properties is Burn Mode Index. In fact the Burn Mode Index of a paper wrapper can be more accurate in indicating the burning characteristics of a paper as opposed to simply measuring the permeability of the paper. The test for determining Burn Mode Index is explained in U.S. Pat. No. 4 739 775 to Hampl which is incorporated herein by reference.

In order to exhibit reduced ignition proclivity properties the Burn Mode Index BMI of the treated areas can be generally less than about 8 cm and particularly less than about 5 cm. For instance in one embodiment the burn mode index of the treated areas can be from about 1 cmto about 3 cm.

The amount of composition that is added to the paper will depend upon various factors including the type of composition that is used and the desired result. For most applications the film forming composition can be added to the paper in an amount from about 1 to about 30 by weight of the paper within the banded region and particularly from about 2 to about 20 by weight of the paper within the banded region after the bands have been formed and dried. Although not always the case generally the amount of the composition applied to the paper will generally increase as the permeability of the paper increases. For instance for wrapping papers having a permeability of less than about 30 Coresta units the composition can be applied to a paper in an amount from about 1 to about 15 by weight. For wrapping papers having a permeability greater than about 60 Coresta units on the other hand the composition can be applied to the paper in an amount from about 8 to about 30 by weight.

The amount of burn promoting agent contained within the treated areas may also vary depending upon various factors including the particular application the base permeability of the paper the film forming material used and the burn promoting agent that is selected. In general for example the burn promoting agent may be present within the treated areas in an amount from about 0.1 to about 5 by weight such as from about to about 3 by weight of the solution composition.

As described above the composition can be sprayed brushed or printed onto the wrapper. In general any suitable printing process can be used in the present invention. Applicants have found that suitable printing techniques include gravure printing or flexographic printing. In one embodiment as illustrated in a paper layer is unwound from a supply roll and travels in the direction indicated by the arrow associated therewith. Alternatively the paper layer may be formed by one or more paper making processes and passed directly into the process without first being stored on a supply roll .

As shown in the paper layer passes through the nip of an S roll arrangement in a reverse S path. From the S roll arrangement the paper layer passes to a gravure printing arrangement . The gravure printing process may be a direct print process or an indirect print process such as by using an offset printer. depicts an indirect print process.

The gravure printing arrangement contains a composition tank and a doctor blade which is used to apply a composition to a gravure roll .

The gravure roll may be engraved with a conventional continuous cell pattern e.g. quadrangular cell pattern arranged in parallel bands across the width of the roll with nonengraved areas between each band. Each gravure cell holds a small amount of the composition which is released in a pattern onto a rubber applicator roll . The paper layer passes through a nip between the rubber applicator roll and a cooperating backup roll . The composition is transferred from the applicator roll to the surface of the paper layer thereby forming a coated paper . The speeds of the gravure roll and the applicator roll may be controlled so they are the same or so they differ by a minor amount to influence the application of the composition. Once the composition is applied to the paper layer the paper layer can be dried if desired.

For instance as shown in after leaving the gravure printing arrangement the paper web is passed through a drying operation . During the drying operation the treated paper can be dried using various devices and methods. For example in one embodiment the drying operation includes a drying device that passes hot gas such as air over the paper web. The temperature of the air can range from about 100 F. to about 600 F. In an alternative embodiment the drying device can be a steam can. After being treated with a composition by the gravure printing device the paper web can be placed in contact with the steam can for drying the composition.

Besides drying the paper with a hot gas stream or with a steam can in another embodiment of the present invention the paper can be dried by contacting the paper with infra red rays. For example in one embodiment the paper can be passed under an infra red heating lamp.

In still another alternative embodiment of the present invention the paper web can be simply air dried during the drying operation .

It should be understood that the process illustrated in represents merely one embodiment for applying a composition to the paper wrapper. For instance a greater amount of printing stations may be included at any location for applying the composition in a multi pass process.

A coating solution was formulated containing alginate and potassium citrate. Potassium citrate was present in the solution in an amount of 1 by weight. The alginate used was KELGIN alginate obtained from ISP Corporation and was contained in the solution at 12 solids.

The coating solution was printed onto a wrapping paper having a basis weight of 25 gsm and having a base permeability of 50 Coresta. The coating solution was applied to the wrapper in bands. The wrapper was then used to construct smoking articles.

Control smoking articles were also produced as described above except the coating solution applied to the control did not contain the potassium citrate.

The smoking articles were then tested according to the Cigarette Extinction Test ASTM E2187 04 and according to the Free Air Extinguishment FASE Test.

The smoking articles made according to the present disclosure gave a 95 pass rating on the Cigarette Extinction Test and gave a 30 result on the Free Air Extinguishment Test. The control smoking articles on the other hand produced an 87.5 rating on the Cigarette Extinction Test and a 55 result for the Free Air Extinguishment Test.

In addition the ash produced during the examples was much whiter and coherent for the smoking articles made according to the present disclosure in comparison to the control samples.

These and other modifications and variations to the present invention may be practiced by those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. In addition it should be understood that aspects of the various embodiments may be interchanged both in whole or in part. Furthermore those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the foregoing description is by way of example only and is not intended to limit the invention.

