---

title: Sensor-based adaptive wearable devices and methods
abstract: The present disclosure is directed towards apparatuses, systems and methods for providing improved sensor-based patient monitoring and tracking. In accordance with one aspect, a method is provided for adjusting a vital sign alarm threshold of a vital status sensor as a function of a patient's GPS data, which may comprise: altitude data, velocity data, and position data. In accordance with another aspect, a method is provided for adjusting one or more alarm detection parameters based in part on a patient's calculated heart rate variability (HRV) data. According to yet another aspect, an electronic triage tag is configured to include a colored card insertion region for inserting a colored card for preventing the device from being inadvertently activated, an LCD screen and a series of LEDs for displaying the triage status of a patient (red, yellow, green, black).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07629881&OS=07629881&RS=07629881
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 07629881
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070429
---
This application claims the benefit of prior filed U.S. provisional applications Ser. No. 60 795 815 filed on Apr. 28 2006 Ser. No. 60 849 570 filed on Oct. 5 2006 and Ser. No. 60 828 282 filed on Oct. 5 2006.

This invention was made with Government support under National Library of Medicine contract N01 LM 3 3516. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to patient monitoring and more particularly to systems methods and apparatus for improved patient monitoring utilizing sensor based adaptive wearable devices.

During a mass emergency many injured people must be helped in a quick and efficient manner. A clever triage system proficiently chooses the order in which individuals are sent to the hospital. A valuable triage also defines an effective system that distributes limited medical resources in a manner that helps as many people as possible. At a disaster scene it is critical that patients are correctly diagnosed monitored and located to ensure the preservation of the maximum number of lives. Unfortunately the current systems use paper triage tags that inefficiently monitor and locate patients during mass casualty situations.

In a mass casualty situation the rapid and accurate triage counting and sorting of patients is the critical early step in the emergency response process. As noted above the paper triage tags currently in use by EMS groups however are far from efficient. In the paper triage tag system a first responder attaches a paper tag or colored ribbon to each patient. The first responder then calls the triage officer and reports the patient count. The commander tallies the patient numbers and calls for the necessary number of ambulances. Paper tags employ color codes to determine the severity of the patient s injury. Patients classified as red are considered to need the most immediate attention followed by patients classified as yellow. Patients classified as green are the least severely injured and patients classified as black are deceased or expectant. After completing initial triage patients wait at the scene until their designated ambulance arrives. With a resource limited response team patients often wait for an extended period of time before transport. During this waiting period patient conditions may deteriorate.

The paper tag based triage process has many limitations. These include the wasting of critical time between the time a patient is triaged and the time that information is received by the triage officer human counting error in counting and tallying triaged patients the possibility of misuse of paper tags by patients who retriage themselves to a higher priority level limited visual feedback from the tags at a distance tags that do not aid in locating a particular patient in a mass of patients tags that do not distinguish between patients categorized under the same color. Other notable limitations include categorizing two patients as critical red when their respective vital signs designate one to be much worse than the other no obvious visual differentiation of contaminated versus uncontaminated patients the inability of responders to track patients who leave the scene without authorization the non detection of a lapsed or out of date patient triage status when a patient deteriorates and illegible information on paper tags as a consequence of recording information under time pressure.

The afore mentioned drawbacks associated with paper tags are overcome by electronic triage tags sometimes referred to as E tags. It is noted however that while electronic tags overcome the afore mentioned drawbacks associated with paper tags they introduce other unique drawbacks. For example an electronic tag does not show any color coding information when the battery runs out. An electronic tag may be misused by patients who attempt to set their own triage color via the push of a button and the LEDS used with such tags have limited visibility in sunlight. A novel electronic tag of the invention overcomes these and other drawbacks as will be described below.

While an electronic tag is well suited to mass casualty situations by greatly benefiting a host of patients at a disaster scene by providing patient location and status information on a mass scale to medical personnel its role may be expanded via the integration of vital sign sensors to provide continuous monitoring of a patient s vital signs until they are admitted to a hospital. By integrating vital sign sensors within the electronic tag medical personnel are provided with a means for simultaneously tracking the vital signs of a large number of patients in an efficient manner. Furthermore it gives the medical personnel immediate notification of any changes in patient status such as respiratory failure or cardiac arrest.

One vital sign sensor which has been contemplated for use within an electronic tag is an arrhythmia monitor for detecting patient arrhythmias. As is well known an arrhythmia monitor provides heart rhythm data which is supplied to the electronic tag for transmission to a central station for patient monitoring by medical personnel. The applicant has recognized that while the ability to track a patient s heart rhythms and transmit the data in real time to medical personnel on a mass scale is useful its usefulness may be enhanced by considering measurements outside of those conventional measurements to trigger alarms. Specifically vital sign sensors in present day use typically track a patient s heart rhythms using a set of standard measurements including oxygen saturation pulse pressure and heart rate. While these measurements are very useful in tracking a patient s heart rhythms the applicant has recognized that certain unconventional measurements not heretofore considered in the art may improve the accuracy of automated vital signs monitoring to provide a more accurate picture of a patient s health. Specifically the applicant has recognized two unconventional measurements that may be useful in providing a more accurate picture of a patient s health. One measurement is a patient s altitude reading height above sea level . The applicant has recognized that altitude is an important yet overlooked parameter in monitoring a patient s heart rhythms in that it is well known that altitude affects heart rate and blood oxygen concentration and therefore should be considered as a factor in detecting patient arrhythmias. The present invention addresses this limitation by providing a method for dynamically adjusting a patient alarm threshold in a vital sign sensor such as an arrhythmia monitor based on a patient s altitude data.

The second unconventional measurement that may prove useful in providing a more accurate picture of a patient s health is a patient s heart rate variability HRV reading. It has been shown that patients have a higher survival rate who exhibit HRV values expressed as HF LF ratios of 64 12 while terminal patients exhibit HF LF ratios of 172 32. Accordingly this HRV information may be utilized to adjust an alarm detection parameter of the heart rate monitor sensor to provide a more accurate assessment of a patient s physical condition.

Therefore the present invention has been made in view of the above problems and it is an objective of the present invention to provide methods and systems for providing improved sensor based patient monitoring and tracking.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention the afore mentioned objective is achieved by providing a method for adjusting a vital sign alarm threshold of a vital status sensor as a function of a patient s GPS data which may comprise in certain embodiments altitude data velocity data and position data. The method generally comprises periodically receiving patient GPS data and adjusting at least one patient vital sign alarm threshold based on the received patient GPS data.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the afore mentioned objective is achieved by providing a program product for adjusting a vital sign alarm threshold of a vital status sensor as a function of a patient s altitude. The computer program product includes executable code for performing a method comprising periodically receiving patient GPS data and adjusting at least one patient vital sign alarm threshold based on the received patient GPS data.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the afore mentioned objective is achieved by providing a method for adjusting an alarm detection parameter based on a patient s calculated heart rate variability HRV data. The method generally comprises periodically receiving patient heart rate data converting the patient heart rate data to HRV data and adjusting at least one patient alarm detection parameter based on the HRV data.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the afore mentioned objective is achieved by providing a computer program product for adjusting an alarm detection parameter of a patient vital status sensor as a function of heart rate variability HRV data. The computer program product includes executable code for performing a method comprising periodically receiving heart rate data converting the received heart rate data to HRV data and adjusting at least one patient alarm detection parameter based on the HRV data.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the afore mentioned objective is achieved by providing a system for providing real time patient monitoring and tracking in emergency situations. The system comprises wearable computers including vital sign and location sensors ad hoc networking a database and web portal technology to allow computer monitoring of patient status in real time.

According to one or more aspects an electronic triage tag may be configured to include i vital sign monitoring functions ii location tracking functions iii alarm signaling functions iv information display functions v receive a patient s triage status vi display the received patient triage status vii initiate a communication session ix establish a communication link to communicate patient vital sign data patient triage status and patient location information.

As will be apparent the present invention may generally benefit patients in emergency settings and other outdoor situations by providing improved vital signs monitoring to provide a more accurate picture of a patient s health. More particularly it will be appreciated that the improved monitoring techniques disclosed herein will provide medical personnel with the ability to take pre emptive action before a patient s condition degrades severely.

With reference now to there is shown one embodiment of a real time patient monitoring and tracking system to continuously monitor a plurality of patient s vital status and track their locations until they are admitted to a hospital.

The real time patient monitoring and tracking system is seen to comprise in the exemplary embodiment a wearable computer preferably attached to the wrist of a patient a remote computing device for receiving patient information i.e. vitals from the wearable computer . Communications between the wearable computer and the computing device is performed wirelessly. In an embodiment the wireless communication may be performed in accordance with the IEEE 802.15.4 communication standard. Of course other standards that exist or become known are contemplated for use with the invention. The computing device requires a network connection to communicate with a central server . In one embodiment the network connection may use for example Verizon s EVDO coverage by inserting an EVDO wireless card in the remote computing device .

The real time patient monitoring and tracking system further comprises a web portal to connect with a database and make the real time information accessible to users from Internet browsers. The web portal will be used by different participants in the emergency response team such as the emergency department personnel who need this information to prepare for the incoming patient. The database is connected to the web portal through the use of well defined web services. Patient information is transmitted over SOAP a secure and encrypted form of XML. The web service based approach advantageously provides flexibility to interoperate with third party software in the future.

Turning now to there is shown a more detailed illustration of the wearable computer computer that is seen to comprise a memory coupled to a processor and several peripheral devices including according to one embodiment a GPS location sensor for outdoor use an indoor location sensor for indoor use a wearable pulse oximeter a blood pressure sensor and an electronic triage tag . The processor may be or include any type quantity and or configuration of processor that is or becomes known. In some embodiments the processor may comprise multiple inter connected processors microprocessors and or micro engines. The processor may be in communication with and or coupled to any number of other components of the wearable computer such as the GPS location sensor the blood pressure sensor the electronic triage tag and the memory .

The electronic triage tag is a portable status relaying apparatus configured to allow medical personnel to set the triage color red yellow green of the patient by inserting a color coded card as will be described further below. The electronic triage tag replaces the paper triage tags that are commonly used by medics today.

The pulse oximeter attaches to the patient s finger and measures patient heart rate HR and blood oxygenation level SpO . A cuff pressure sensor on the patient s upper arm measures systolic and diastolic blood pressure.

The GPS location sensor provides geo location and allows medics to track patients who are outdoors e.g. at the scene of the emergency to within an accuracy of 3 meters CEP . The indoor location sensor provides location information for those places where the GPS location sensor cannot be reached and requires the installation of location beacons.

In an embodiment the wearable computer provides four primary functionalities vital sign monitoring location tracking medical record storage and triage status tracking.

With reference now to the system operation will be described. With all of the peripheral devices of wearable computer turned on the pulse oximeter wirelessly reports patient data via the electronic triage tag to the remote computing device every second. The GPS location sensor wirelessly reports to the computing device via the electronic triage tag every 5 minutes. The blood pressure sensor reports to the computing device every 15 minutes. It is noted that the battery lifetime of the overall system is approximately 6 hours however when the blood pressure sensor is not in use the battery lifetime can be extended to 1 2 days.

A software application on the computing device see referred to as a Vital Sign Monitor VSM receives real time patient data from the wearable computer and processes the patient data to detect anomalies. The VSM software application includes a GUI not shown to review the patient data e.g. real time ECG Osaturation level and heart rate of each patient as well as any alarms. When any of the vital signs surpass preset thresholds which are also manually adjustable an appropriate alert pops up to notify the nurse or physician in charge.

The following table shows a partial list of physiological conditions that may cause an alert in the VSM software application on the computing device .

The VSM software application running on the computing device is integrated with a database . The computing device regularly transmits patient data vital signs location triage color and alerts for multiple patients to the database via a wireless network . If network connectivity is unavailable the VSM software application running on the computing device continues to operate.

When an anomaly is detected in the patient vital signs e.g. see Table I the VSM software application generates an alert in the computing device user interface GUI . The medic can locate the patient by selecting to view a map of the disaster scene marked with the GPS location of each patient. The medic can also select a sound alert feature that will sound a buzzer and blink an LED on the wearable computer .

The system supports the need for multiple parties to share information about patient s status and locations. A Web based information portal allows different types of users to access the patient information in real time. When a user logs in to the web portal the information displayed to the user is managed by group level permissions. In one embodiment the Web portal contemplates three levels of users emergency department personnel who log in to the web portal to retrieve information about the patients who are being transported to their hospital incident commanders who login to the web portal to see summaries of patients at particular disaster scenes and medical specialists often located at distant facilities who may be called on to give treatment instructions to the medics at the scene.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method is disclosed for dynamically adjusting one or more alarm detection parameters in accordance with dynamically received heart rate variability HRV data in which the HRV data is derived from a patient s heart rate data. In this manner improved vital signs monitoring is realized which provides a more accurate picture of a patient s health. The alarm detection parameters are adjusted in the context of a process for detecting heart arrhythmias in a patient e.g. Asystole Bradycardia and VT .

As is well known to those in the medical arts Asystole is a condition in which the heart stops beating Bradycardia is where the heart experiences a number of consecutive slow beats i.e. a slow pulse rate and VT is where the heart experiences a number of consecutive beats above a threshold rate with low Oor unstable O.

As is also well known to those knowledgeable in the medical arts heart rate variability HRV is generally defined as the beat to beat variance in heart rate exhibited in the human cardiopulmonary system and may be expressed in one way as a ratio of high frequency heart rate data to low frequency heart rate data i.e. HF LF.

The method for dynamically adjusting one or more alarm detection parameters in accordance with dynamically received heart rate variability HRV data according to the present embodiment is premised on a scientifically proven result that patients who exhibit HRV numbers expressed as an HF LF ratio of 64 12 have a higher survival rate while patients who exhibit HF LF ratios of 172 32 are considered to be terminal. Accordingly the patient HRV data may be advantageously utilized to provide a more accurate assessment of a patient s physical condition.

With reference now to there is described a method for dynamically adjusting one or more alarm detection parameters according to received patient HRV data in the context of a process flow for detecting various types of heart arrhythmias in patients e.g. Asystole bradycardia and Ventricular tachycardia VT .

The electronic triage tag for a particular patient resides in a wait mode until it receives patient data comprising heart rate data and SpOdata . Heart rate and SpOdata is received from sensors on the electronic triage tag for the current iteration . A determination is then made regarding whether the received heart rate and SpOdata is acceptable based on a threshold criteria . If the data is determined to be unacceptable the process returns to the wait state . Otherwise if the data is determined to be acceptable the heart rate and SpOdata are communicated from the patient s wearable computer to the remote computing device to be processed by the vital sign monitoring VSM software application running on the computing device . The heart rate data received from the patient s wearable computer is processed by a power spectrum algorithm running on the computing device to generate HRV data . The conversion process from patient heart data to HRV data is described in greater detail further below.

A determination is then made regarding whether the heart rate HR data for the current iteration is greater than a predetermined constant specifying a time interval bpm which when exceeded triggers an asystole alarm . If the heart rate HR data is determined to be greater than the predetermined constant an asystole alarm is generated and the process returns to . Otherwise if the heart rate HR data received in the current iteration is determined to be less than the predetermined constant a lower threshold counter is initialized to zero for the current iteration . A determination is then made regarding whether the heart rate HR data received in the current iteration is less than or equal to a pre defined lower threshold e.g. 40 bpm . If the determination is not true the process continues at . Otherwise a lower threshold counter is incremented by 1 for the current iteration . Next the lower threshold counter is summed for the six most recent test iterations . A determination is then made regarding whether the summation is greater than the lower threshold alarm parameter . If the determination is true the process continues at otherwise a lower threshold alert is generated and the process returns to the wait state at . A determination is then made regarding whether the heart rate HR data received in the current iteration is greater than a pre determined upper threshold e.g. 165 bpm . If the determination is not true the process returns to the wait state at . Otherwise an upper threshold counter is incremented by 1 for the current iteration . A determination is then made regarding whether the updated upper threshold counter is greater than an upper threshold alarm parameter . If the determination is not true the process returns to the wait state otherwise the upper threshold counter is initialized to zero and an upper threshold alert is generated and the process returns to the wait state at .

It should be appreciated that a key feature of the process flow illustrated in is the modification adjustment of the upper and lower threshold alarm parameters in accordance with HRV data derived from heart rate data received in the current iteration. More particularly the lower and upper alarm detection parameters are modified adjusted in connection with determinations steps and of see A and B respectively. It should be noted that by dynamically adjusting the upper and lower alarm detection parameters in accordance with HRV data improved vital signs monitoring is achieved which provides a more accurate picture of a patient s health. Moreover medical personnel are provided with the ability to take pre emptive action before a patient s condition degrades severely.

Instantaneous heart rate is determined by the power spectrum algorithm using the time interval between R wave complexes in ECGs known as RR intervals. Sensor input data from a medical sensor e.g. ECG Pulse Oximeter is interpolated and re sampled at over 0.8 Hz depending on the original sampling frequency. A fast Fourier Transform FFT is performed to provide a frequency domain array corresponding to different frequency bands determined by the sampling rate. The interval between elements of the array is the sampling frequency Hz divided by n the number of elements fed into the FFT method. The data is sent to a low pass filter at 0.4 Hz to remove the erroneous frequencies which do not factor into the analysis of HRV. The isolated elements of the array are broken down into LF 0.05 to 0.15 Hz and HF 0.15 to 0.4 Hz . It was found that patients who survived exhibited HF LF ratios of 64 12 while terminal patients exhibited ratios of 172 32.

In some embodiments the heart rate data may be processed in other ways to generate HRV data. For example in an embodiment it is contemplated that the heart rate data may be processed to create a multiplicity of segments in the frequency domain rather than the two segments previously described above i.e. a high HF segment and a low LF frequency segment from which the HRV data may be generated.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention periodically received GPS information is used to dynamically adjust lower and upper threshold values associated with a patient arrhythmia detection algorithm embodied as a software program in a remote computing device. The GPS information may comprise different types of information including but not limited to altitude data for improving the detection accuracy of a potential patient arrhythmia over traditional methods. The inventor has recognized that altitude levels affect heart rate and blood oxygen concentration. Therefore improved detection accuracy may be realized by considering patient altitude data in the patient arrhythmia detection algorithm.

The arrhythmia detection algorithm incorporating certain invention principles specific to the present embodiment is preferably executed as a software application i.e. VSM software as shown in in the remote computing device . The detection algorithm is configured to analyze data resulting from the non invasive monitoring of a patient s heart rate and oxygenation level via the pulse oximeter which is a sensor on the wearable computer see .

The detection algorithm according to the presently described embodiment dynamically adjusts one or more vital sign alarm thresholds according to received altitude data received as remote GPS data . In this manner improved arrhythmia detection accuracy may be achieved over more traditional non adaptive algorithms.

It is noted that the present embodiment differs from the previously described embodiment in that adjustments are made to one or more alarm detection parameters in the previous embodiment according to HRV data while the present embodiment adjusts one or more alarm thresholds in accordance with GPS data.

With reference now to there is illustrated a method for dynamically adjusting one or more alarm detection thresholds in accordance with remotely received GPS data. The method is performed in accordance with a process flow for detecting various types of heart arrhythmias in patients.

The process flow begins with the electronic triage tag operating in a wait mode to receive heart rate data and SpOdata from sensors on the tag . Upon receiving data for a current iteration a determination is then made regarding whether the received heart rate and SpOdata is acceptable based on some data threshold criteria . If the data is determined to be unacceptable the process returns to the wait mode otherwise the data is wirelessly communicated to a remote computing device to be processed by the VSM software See . The VSM software processes the received data by first making a determination regarding whether the received heart rate data for the current iteration is greater than a predetermined constant i.e. a heart rate time interval in units of beats per minute bpm . If the predetermined constant threshold is exceeded an asystole alarm is triggered and the process returns to the wait state . Otherwise if the predetermined constant threshold is not exceeded a lower threshold counter is initialized to zero for the current iteration . A determination is then made regarding whether the received heart rate data for the current iteration is less than or equal to a heart rate lower threshold which can be set to for example 40 bpm . If the heart rate HR data received in the current iteration is determined to be less than or equal to the lower threshold a lower threshold counter is incremented by 1 for the current iteration . Otherwise the lower threshold counter remains unchanged in the current iteration. Next the lower threshold counter is summed for the six most recent iterations . Then a determination is made regarding whether the summation is greater than a lower threshold alarm parameter . If it is determined that the summation is not greater than the lower threshold alarm parameter a lower threshold alert is generated and the process returns to the wait state . Otherwise if it is determined that the summation is greater than the lower threshold alarm parameter a determination is made regarding whether the heart rate HR data received in the current iteration is greater than a pre determined upper threshold which can be set to for example 165 bpm . If this determination is true the upper threshold counter is incremented by 1 for the current iteration . If this determination is not true the process returns to the wait state at . If the determination is true a determination is then made regarding whether the upper threshold counter is greater than or equal to the upper threshold alarm parameter . If this determination is not true the process returns to the wait state at otherwise the upper threshold counter is initialized to zero and an upper threshold alert is generated .

It should be appreciated that a key feature of the process flow illustrated in is the modification of the upper and lower alarm thresholds in accordance with received GPS data See . More particularly the lower and upper alarm thresholds are preferably modified in accordance with remotely received GPS as shown in the process flow of in association with decision steps and see labels C and D respectively. By dynamically adjusting the upper and lower alarm thresholds according to remotely received GPS data e.g patient altitude data improved vital signs monitoring is achieved which provides a more accurate picture of a patient s health. Moreover medical personnel are provided with the ability to take pre emptive action before a patient s condition degrades severely.

With reference now to there is described a process for processing the GPS data e.g. altitude readings to determine whether or not to dynamically adjust the lower and upper threshold values at steps and of the process flow illustrated in for detecting heart arrhythmias. The GPS data is preferably received via a GPS receiver not shown on the wearable computer .

The electronic triage tag on the wearable computer for a particular patient resides in a wait mode until it receives a GPS altitude reading . Heart rate and SpOdata is received from sensors on the electronic triage tag for the current iteration . Upon receiving the GPS altitude data a determination is made regarding whether the GPS altitude data is acceptable based on some pre determined threshold criteria . If the data is considered acceptable the process continues at otherwise the process returns to to wait for the next data transmission. A determination is made regarding whether the GPS data corresponding to the patient s current altitude is NULL data . If it is determined that the data is NULL data the process returns to to wait for the next data transmission of heart rate and SpOdata. Otherwise a determination is made regarding whether the GPS data corresponding to the patient s altitude is significantly changed from the most recently received data . If the change is determined to be insignificant the process returns to wait for the next data transmission of heart rate and SpOdata at . Otherwise a lower alarm threshold for detecting patient heart arrhythmias is adjusted in accordance with a detected change in the patient GPS data corresponding to the patient s currently reported altitude . For example if the changed data is determined to be a positive change in altitude the lower threshold alarm parameter is adjusted upward to account for the patient s increased oxygen demand at an increased altitude. Conversely if the changed GPS data is determined to be negative the lower alarm threshold is adjusted downward to account for the patient s decreased oxygen demand at a decreased altitude. The adjustment of the lower alarm threshold is performed just prior to the decision diamond at in the flowchart of see label C . An upper alarm threshold for detecting patient heart arrhythmias is adjusted in accordance with a detected change in the patient GPS data corresponding to the patient s currently reported altitude . For example if the changed data is determined to be a positive change in altitude the upper threshold alarm parameter is adjusted upward to account for the patient s increased oxygen demand at an increased altitude. Conversely if the changed GPS data is determined to be negative the upper threshold alarm parameter is adjusted downward to account for the patient s decreased oxygen demand at a decreased altitude. The adjustment of the upper alarm threshold is performed just prior to decision diamond in the flowchart of see label D .

Referring now to there is shown a front view of an electronic triage tag according to this embodiment. As shown in the electronic triage tag includes a colored card insertion region for inserting a colored card a cover strip for preventing the device from being inadvertently activated an LCD screen and a series of LEDs for displaying the triage status of a patient red yellow green black . The electronic triage tag provides five functionalities triage status display vital sign monitoring location tracking information display and alarm signaling.

The inclusion of card insertion region overcomes a present need for medics to use complicated passwords before setting the triage color to prevent patients from re triaging themselves to a higher level. For example without the use of such passwords a patient who is triaged by a medic at a green level indicative of being the least severely injured could easily re triage himself to a higher level e.g. yellow or red. This drawback is overcome through the use of color coded cards for insertion by the medics into the card insertion region to set the triage level of a patient.

In operation a medic carries a number of different color cards with him at an emergency scene. To set a triage level of a patient the medic takes out an appropriately colored card and inserts it into colored card insertion region of the electronic tag . Advantageously only the medics have access to the color cards thereby precluding patients from re triaging themselves at a later point in time.

Upon inserting the colored card two events occur. First the electronic tag automatically recognizes the card color and lights up a corresponding LED on the face of the tag which provides a visual feedback to the medic that the electronic triage tag is operating normally and 2 the triage status is wirelessly transmitted to the remote computing device see .

Another advantage afforded by the use of colored card inserts is the ability to continuously display a patient s triage status in the event of a battery failure. In the event of a battery failure the card color will remain visible

It is contemplated that the colored card may be constructed from a variety of materials including but not limited to paper cardboard and plastic.

The card color can be recognized by the electronic tag using any number of well known recognition techniques including for example mechanical latches light photo transmitters and receivers IR transmitters and receivers magnetic means electrical circuit completion pressure sensor buttons similar to micro piezoresistive buttons micro switch technology used in touch screens and bar code.

Based on the foregoing specification the invention may be implemented using computer programming or engineering techniques including computer software firmware hardware or any combination or subset thereof. Any such resulting program having computer readable code means may be embodied or provided within one or more computer readable media thereby making a computer program product i.e. an article of manufacture according to the invention. The computer readable media may be for instance a fixed hard drive diskette optical disk magnetic tape semiconductor memory such as read only memory ROM etc. or any transmitting receiving medium such as the Internet or other communication network or link. The article of manufacture containing the computer code may be made and or used by executing the code directly from one medium by copying the code from one medium to another medium or by transmitting the code over a network.

Wireless may refer to a communications monitoring or control system in which electromagnetic radiation spectrum or acoustic waves carry a signal through atmospheric space rather than along a wire. In wireless systems radio frequency RF or infrared transmission IR waves may be used. Common examples of wireless equipment in use today include the Global Positioning System GPS cellular telephone phones and pagers cordless computer accessories and wireless LAN WLAN . Wi Fi short for wireless fidelity is a high frequency wireless local area network WLAN . Wi Fi is specified in the 802.11b specification from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and is part of a series of wireless specifications together with 802.11 802.11a and 802.11g. All four standards use the Ethernet protocol and CSMA CA carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance for path sharing.

One skilled in the art of computer science will easily be able to combine the software created as described with appropriate general purpose or special purpose computer hardware to create a computer system or computer sub system embodying the methods of the invention. While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

