---

title: Display of video subtitles
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for presenting subtitles. A video is played on a display of a device. A display mode for the video is detected. A subtitle is presented in one of a plurality of presentation formats based on the detected display mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602757&OS=09602757&RS=09602757
owner: APPLE INC.
number: 09602757
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070904
---
A video can include subtitles or closed captions. The subtitles or closed captions can provide a translation or a transcript of the spoken dialogue in a video and optionally other information. Subtitles and closed captions are useful among other reasons to users who are hard of hearing are attempting to learn a language by watching a video in that language or are attempting to watch a video in a noisy environment.

The subtitles and closed captions can obscure video content when displayed. When the display screen is relatively small the allocation of screen space to the video content and to the subtitles can become a challenge.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include playing a video on a display of a device detecting a display mode for the video and presenting a subtitle in one of a plurality of presentation formats based on the detected display mode. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include determining a display mode for a video on a device where the display mode is one of a plurality of display modes for the device determining a subtitle presentation format based on the display mode where the subtitle presentation format is one of a plurality of subtitle presentation formats associated with the plurality of display modes and presenting a subtitle for the video on the device according to the subtitle presentation format. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Subtitles or closed captioning can be displayed with videos played on portable devices in a way that reduces obstruction of the video content. Subtitles can be displayed in a matte region or overlaid over the video content automatically.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display which can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user. In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a music processing device as indicated by the music player object a video processing device as indicated by the video player object a digital photo album device as indicated by the photos object and a network data communication device for online shopping as indicated by the store object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the music player object the video player object the photos object and store object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface of mobile device can include additional display objects such as the Web object the calendar object the address book object the clock object the calculator object and the settings object described above with reference to mobile device of . In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include other display objects such as a Web video object that provides functionality for uploading and playing videos on the Web. Each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user. In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can include audio jack a volume control device sensor devices and wireless communication subsystems and and a port device or some other wired port connection described above with reference to mobile device of .

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device or is intended to operate. For example a mobile device or may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device or may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device or on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device or can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device or can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device or may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions as described in reference to . The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device or may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device or and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device or . When the mobile device or is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device or including a security process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display objects shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone music player video player photos and store .

In the example shown the access device includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing the transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access device which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . In some implementations a device activation process can be used as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 447 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Device Activation and Access which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc. Another example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPhone product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the access device using for example a USB cable. In other implementations the mobile device and access device include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the security process and mobile services daemon of the connections status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access device e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the security process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access device by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access device will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access device to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the security process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access device can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

Detecting a display mode for the video can be performed in step . The detection can be performed by the device displaying the video such as mobile device or for example. In some implementations the detection can be performed by media processing instructions executing in mobile device or . In some other implementations the detection can be performed by a device streaming video to the display device by a DVD player by some other device by the user or by some other method. The display mode can be pan and scan full screen wide screen fit to width fit to height original aspect ratio letterbox or windowbox to name a few examples.

In step a video subtitle caption or closed caption is presented in accordance with the detected display mode. In some implementations the video subtitle is presented overlaid on the video or in a letterboxing or matte black portion below or above the video. The subtitle can for example be located in an upper portion of the display or a lower portion of the display. The subtitle can for example contain all audio content only dialogue all text displayed in the video or some other content or combination of contents. Example subtitles and shown on the mobile device are described in reference to .

In some implementations the subtitle is vertically and horizontally centered within the matte where the subtitle is displayed. For example in subtitle is centered horizontally and vertically within matte B. In some other implementations the subtitle is horizontally centered within the matte A or B but is aligned to be near the top or bottom side of matte A or B.

More generally the subtitle can be displayed in a transparent area overlaid on the video content when the video content is played in a mode that does not include a matte above or below the video content . Examples of such modes include fit to height mode pillarboxing mode and pan and scan mode for a video having a 16 9 aspect ratio on a display with a 4 3 aspect ratio and so on.

In some other implementations lines of subtitles that are not able to fit into the matte are not displayed. As the video content is played the lines of subtitles can shift within the matte to hide subtitle lines that correspond to content e.g. speech in the video content that are earlier in time position and to display subtitle lines that correspond to content in the video content that are later in time position. For example video content can include a scene that has the subtitle lines How are you Long time no see How are your wife and kids and They re fine thanks. in that time position order. When playback of the video content reaches the scene the line They re fine thanks. is not displayed because it is the later in time of the four lines. As playback of the video content proceeds the lines can shift to hide the line How are you and to display the line They re fine thanks. In other words the subtitles automatically scroll as the video playback proceeds.

In some implementations a user can operate the interface elements and to navigate the subtitles by double tapping the icon of the interface element or . In some other implementations other methods of navigating the subtitles are possible such as double tapping the bottom left or right corner of the screen or scrolling a finger along matte B in the desired direction for example. The subtitles can be displayed for example in matte A and be navigable by scrolling a finger along matte B so that the subtitles are not hidden by the users action.

For example the subtitles for a time position in the video content include the lines How are you Long time no see. How are your wife and kids and They re fine thanks. and only the line Long time no see. is currently displayed. If the user operates interface element the line Long time no see. is removed from display and the line How are you is displayed. In other words the user navigates backward through the subtitle lines by operating interface element . If instead the user operates interface element the line Long time no see. is removed from display and the line How are your wife and kids is displayed. The user navigates forward through the subtitle lines by operating interface element .

In some implementations lines of the subtitles are associated with a time position in the video content . When the user operates interface element or to navigate backward or forward respectively through the subtitle lines playback of the video content is paused and the video content is navigated backward or forward respectively to a frame at or in proximity to the time position associated with the newly displayed subtitle line. In other words in some implementations the frame of the video content that is displayed is locked to the scrolling of the subtitles. For example continuing with the example described above when the line Long time no see. is currently displayed and the user operates interface element the line How are you is displayed and a frame of the video content at the time position associated with the line How are you is displayed.

In some implementations multiple lines of subtitles can be displayed in the matte B and any lines that do not fit can be presented to the user by selecting the appropriate interface element or . For example if one additional line of the subtitles is not displayed and the user selects forward interface element the top line of the displayed subtitles can be removed and the remaining lines shifted up in order to make room to display the additional line at the bottom of the matte B. This example would display multiple lines of subtitles at a time removing and adding a single line at a time. Other examples can display multiple lines removing and adding any number of lines at a time.

In some implementations the device or can be communicatively coupled to an external display screen e.g. a television a computer coupled to a monitor using a port device . For example the device or can be connected to a dock unit that is communicatively coupled to a computer and which includes an infrared receiver for receiving input from a remote control device. When a video is played back on the device or the remote control device can be used by a user to navigate the subtitles of the video.

In some implementations a user can search for particular positions in a video by subtitle text. For example a user can perform a predetermined gesture or enter a predetermined input to bring up a subtitle search field. The user can enter a subtitle query e.g. a word phrase or the like into the search field. One or more frames and or chapters if the video is divided into chapters corresponding to positions in the video that have subtitles matching the query are identified. The user can select one of the identified frames or chapters to trigger playback of the video from the selected frame or chapter for example.

The operations can begin in step with a determining of a display mode for playing a video on the display of a device. The display mode can be determined based on the original aspect ratio of the video the aspect ratio of the display of the device and preferences e.g. fill the entire display preserve the aspect ratio of the video a specific display mode etc. set by a user of the device. The determined display mode is one of a plurality of available display modes on the device. Available display modes can include full screen widescreen fit to width fit to height original aspect ratio letterbox and windowbox to name a few examples. For example if a video has a 16 9 aspect ration the display screen of a device has a 4 3 aspect ratios and the user has set a preference that the video aspect ratio be preserved the device can determine a letterbox display mode for the video.

Determining a subtitle presentation format can be performed in step . The subtitle presentation format is determined based on among other things the determined display mode. The determined subtitle presentation format mode is one of a plurality of available subtitle presentation formats associated with the plurality of available display modes. Available subtitle presentation formats include overlaying a subtitle bar over the video and displaying the subtitle in a matte region to name a few examples. A subtitle presentation format can be associated with one or more of the available display modes. For example the format of displaying the subtitle in a matte region can be associated with the letterbox and windowbox display modes for example.

In step the video is presented according to the determined display mode. The video is played back in the display of the video according to the determined display mode. For example if the determined display mode is full screen the video is played back in the display in full screen mode.

In step a subtitle caption or closed caption is presented according to the determined subtitle presentation format. For example if the subtitle presentation format is display the subtitle in a matte region a subtitle is displayed in the matte region as the video is presented.

It should be appreciated that while the implementations described above are described in reference to a mobile device the described implementations can be implemented on any device mobile or not that has a relatively small display screen.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what being claims or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understand as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

