---

title: Integrating messaging attachments with online publishing systems
abstract: A client publishes rich media content by receiving a message including a representation of imagery content. A publishing control is presented, in association with the message, that enables the user to transmit the imagery content to a publishing host. The user is enabled to interact with the publishing control and the representation of the imagery content to publish the imagery content using the publishing host.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477669&OS=09477669&RS=09477669
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09477669
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070806
---
This disclosure relates to processing objects such as images and movies transmitted in connection with electronic messages such as e mail messages.

Users may exchange electronic messages with friends and family. These messages may include rich media content.

In one general sense a client publishes rich media content by receiving a message including a representation of imagery content. A publishing control is presented in association with the message that enables the user to transmit the imagery content to a publishing host. The user is enabled to interact with the publishing control and the representation of the imagery content to publish the imagery content using the publishing host.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example enabling the user to interact with the publishing control and the representation of the imagery content may include enabling the user to select a thumbnail of an image appearing in an electronic mail message and move the representation to a representation of a gallery associated with the user on a publishing host. Enabling the user to interact with the publishing control and the representation of the imagery content may includes enabling the user to interface with a first entity to access messages and enabling the user to interface with a second entity to publish imagery content the second entity being different than the first entity.

The user may be enabled to create a rule that automatically classifies the imagery content associate a gallery with the rule and automatically publish in response to classifying the imagery content the classified imagery content into the gallery.

The user may be enabled to create a rule that automatically classifies the imagery content associate a gallery with the rule determine that the imagery content in the message is responsive to the rule present a suggestion control enabling the user to automatically publish the imagery content and publish the imagery content in response to the user selecting the suggestion control. The suggestion control may be presented proximate to the representation of the imagery content.

Receiving the message may include receiving an electronic mail message an instant message or a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message. A user may be enabled to publish non imagery content.

In another general sense rich media content may be published by enabling a user to access a message having associated imagery content determining that the user has a publication capability on a publishing host enabling the user to select a representation of the imagery content and presenting in association with the message a publishing control that enables the user to transmit the imagery content to the publishing host. A user instruction may be received from a client to publish the selected representation on the publishing host. The imagery content is transmitted to the publishing host and the publishing host may be instructed to enable other users to access the imagery content through a web browser. Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example presenting the publishing control may includes enabling the user to select a thumbnail of an image appearing in an electronic mail message and move the representation to a representation of a gallery associated with the user on a publishing host. Presenting the publishing control may include enabling the user to interface with a first entity to access messages and enabling the user to interface with a second entity to publish imagery content the second entity being different than the first entity.

Presenting the publishing control may include identifying a first gallery associated with the first entity accessing permissions associated with the user for a publishing service operated the second entity interfacing based on accessing the permissions with the publishing service identifying a second gallery associated with the publishing service presenting a first representation of the first gallery presenting a second representation of the second gallery enabling the user to perform a first operation to add the representation of the imagery content to the first gallery and enabling the user to perform a second operation to add the representation of the imagery content to the second gallery wherein the first and second operations are identical except for selection of the first gallery or the second gallery.

A rule may be accessed that automatically classifies the imagery content. A gallery may be associated with the rule. In response to classifying the imagery content the classified imagery content is automatically published into the gallery.

A rule may be accessed that automatically classifies the imagery content. A gallery is associated with the rule and it is determined that the imagery content in the message is responsive to the rule. A suggestion control is presented enabling the user to automatically publish the imagery content and the imagery content is published in response to the user selecting the suggestion control. The suggestion control is presented proximate to the representation of the imagery content. Enabling the user to access the message may include presenting an electronic mail message an instant message or a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message.

Determining that the user has a publication capability may include determining that a user identity for a messaging system also has permissions on a publishing host. Tags from the user may be suggested for the imagery content and the content may be published with the suggested tags. Tags for the imagery content may be automatically suggested and the content may be published with the suggested tags.

Implementations of any of the techniques described may include a method or process an apparatus or system or computer software on a computer accessible medium

This disclosure describes a system that integrates a messaging application e.g. webmail system with online publishing services used for hosting and sharing documents. For example the documents may include photos or images e.g. JPG PNG GIF etc. movies or other kinds of rich media content that may be processed and transmitted to a selected online publishing services e.g. Mac Web Gallery Flickr Picasa etc. . In this way a user s friends and family may access the imagery content using a Web browser.

For example a user may access a .Mac webmail account to read a message that includes one or more image or movie attachments. The webmail application may include a user interface that enables the user to transmit or publish an image or movie attached to a message on a publishing host. For instance the user interface may be modified by displaying a menu or link such as Add to Web Gallery whenever the application detects that image or movie attachments accompany the message. When the user clicks on or otherwise selects the Add to Web Gallery menu or link an additional user interface e.g. in a new window may appear that lists all the web galleries that are available on the online service. In addition to listing the galleries the user interface also may have a button or other such control that facilitates the creation of a brand new gallery.

The user interface also may show a thumbnail of each of the images and movies attached to the message and provide a control that transmits or copies the corresponding attachment to an existing gallery offered by a publishing host. This operation could be done for example by using a check box next to each thumbnail and letting the user click on a button to copy the thumbnail to particular gallery. Alternatively the operation could let the user simply select one or multiple thumbnails then drag and drop them to the appropriate gallery. The user also may be provided with controls for adding a caption or description for the image or movie when it is published to the online service. When images and movies are added to the web gallery the corresponding online service may automatically refresh its content so that visitors viewing the web gallery may see the newly added images and movies.

The mail client application may include a control through which the user may publish or transmit attachments such as soccer picture attachment and vacation movie attachment to albums maintained by a publishing host e.g. an album application running on a server that is configured to interface with a web server . In particular the mail client application may include publishing controls such that the user may select how imagery content is published. Specifically the albums may include several individual albums to which the user has access e.g. the right to add pictures movies to specific albums . In one implementation the user may be able to select one or more of the attachments and then drag and drop them into a specific album. For example if the user knows that the soccer picture attachment is soccer related the user may drag the attachment to the Manchester United Soccer Blog album . Similarly the user may drag the movie attachment to the .Mac Family Album album if the user knows that the movie is related to a recent family vacation.

In some implementations other controls and user interfaces not shown may be included in the system from which user instructions may be received. For example the system may include checkboxes next to the individual attachments. Using the check boxes the user may be able to select several attachments for inclusion into a gallery. In some implementations instead of using a drag and drop operation the user may select the name of an existing gallery or album from a drop down menu.

The mail client may include features that enable a user to track the progress of publishing attachments to online albums. For example a hover display feature may identify albums to which a particular attachment has been moved. For instance if the user positions and hovers the cursor over the attachment the client may display a message indicating that the picture attachment has been published to the Manchester United Soccer Blog album

In some implementations individual attachments may change in appearance after they have been published. For example after publishing movie attachment to the .Mac Family Album album the appearance of the attachment may change such as by using a different color or with bolding and so on. In this way the user may be able to quickly identify the attachments that have been published.

In still other implementations hovering over a particular album may identify contents of that album. In addition identification may include a specification of the particular attachments e.g. attachments in the current message that have been published. For example if the user hovers over the .Mac Family Album album a message may display You ve already published Picture ABC to this album. 

The interface includes an actions area . The actions area may be displayed for example whenever a user is publishing a photo or movie attachment for a message such as one of the photo attachments or movie attachments . The specific photo or movie attachment being published may be displayed or otherwise identified in a header such as by including a thumbnail of the Manchester United Premiership photo.

The actions area may include various controls. As depicted the actions area includes a Notify Members checkbox a tags area and a Create New Gallery On control .

The Notify Members checkbox may be checked by the user to automatically notify members or subscribers of a particular gallery that new content is available. For example upon completion of the process of adding the Manchester Soccer Championship photo attachment to a new gallery the web publishing host may inform e.g. by email the members subscribers that new content e.g. a new photo has been received. Subsequently the members subscribers may use a Web browser to access and view the new imagery content.

The tags area may enable the user to specify tags associated with a particular image. For example a tag may be a title description or caption entered by the user that is published with the photo or movie. Such tags may provide additional information that may be used by members subscribers web publishing host when viewing the imagery content. For example an explanation accompanying a photo may provide insight regarding the subject of the photo the camera settings used to take the photo etc.

The user may use the Create New Gallery On control to select from available online publishing services e.g. .Mac Web Gallery Flickr Picasa etc. . For example the control may enable the user to type in the name of an online publishing service or select one from a list. As depicted the user has selected the .Mac online publishing service.

Other controls now shown also may be included with the system . For example additional controls may provide the ability to adjust photos before they published online. Such controls may facilitate changes to a photo s orientation resolution color scale brightness etc. Other controls may enable the user to crop or edit individual photos.

In one example the user may define a rule that automatically publishes attachments to one or more specific albums. Specifically rule may be defined so that messages from Mom e.g. defined in the rule by From Mom are automatically moved to the .Mac Family Album album e.g. Action Moved photos to the Mac Family Album . Such a rule for example may be invoked when a user receives message from his mother that includes photo attachments and . The rule in this case selects the message because its From line is Mom. 

Other rules may be configured to interface with image recognition components. For example a user may define a rule that automatically publishes soccer related photos to the Manchester United Soccer Blog album . Specifically an image recognition based rule may be invoked in response to determining that the image is soccer related e.g. because it includes a soccer ball in the image and then automatically publish the corresponding attachment to album . The image recognition based rule would not be invoked in response to analyzing attachment because the corresponding image with a dog does not include soccer related imagery.

Other rules may be text based. For example the system may enable the user to define a rule such that messages with attachments matching certain keywords are published to particular albums. The key words may be used for example to match the subject of the mail message or the file name of an attachment. For instance if the subject of the message includes San Francisco an existing text based rule may automatically publish the corresponding attachment to the Flickr San Francisco Tourist album . In another example if the name of an attachment includes Football a text based rule may automatically publish the corresponding attachment to the .Mac Football Album album

In some implementations if a user hovers over an attachment information may be displayed that indicates the album to which the attachment was published and the rule used to effect the action. For example if message attachment has been automatically published to the .Mac Family Album album hovering over attachment may display This attachment was published to .Mac Family Album using rule 29. 

Generally the client includes a user s computer configured to interface with one or more hosts to exchange information. The client may include a messaging application e.g. MacOS X s Mail application or ichat . The client also may include a browser e.g. Apple s Safari browser . The browser may be configured to access an application host to perceive messages through a web portal.

The network typically includes hardware and or software capable of enabling direct or indirect communications between the client and the hosts e.g. mail host . The network may include a direct link between the client and the hosts or it may include one or more networks or subnetworks between them not explicitly shown . Each network or subnetwork may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway capable of carrying and receiving data. Examples of network include the Internet the World Wide Web a WAN Wide Area Network a LAN Local Area Network an analog or a digital wired and wireless telephone network e.g. a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network or a xDSL any form of Digital Subscriber Loop and or a radio television cable satellite or any other delivery mechanism for carrying data.

The mail host includes server systems configured to exchange messages and store messages for subsequent retrieval. The mail host may include an electronic mail messaging gateway that exchanges electronic mail messages with other hosts. The mail host also may be configured to interface with a messaging client on client . For example the client may include an iMac running MacOS X 10.4 with a mail application that interfaces with mail host to present a messaging inbox.

The application host may include the software application used for enabling a user to transmit imagery content to a publishing host. The application host may first determine that the user has the authority to use the publishing host. As the user receives messages with attachments the application host may be configured to present controls that a user may use to select imagery content to be transmitted add information about the imagery content before it is transmitted and select the gallery in which to publish the imagery content. The application host also may enable the user to control how members or subscribers are informed of newly published imagery content.

In some implementations the application host and the mail host may represent different components of a larger integrated system. For example if the mail host enables access to Mac mail messages through a .Mac mail client the mail host may be configured to interface with the application host to enable access to .Mac mail messages through a web browser on a client. The application host may be configured to embed controls in the user interface s for publishing attachments.

In other implementations the application host may interface with other systems such as third party messaging and publishing systems. For example different systems may communicate using an established API Application Programming Interface . In this way the resources and features available on a first system may be accessed by a different system for example using the Internet.

In still other implementations the application host and the mail host may be configured to share information in order to determine whether a message should be configured to include publishing controls. For example when the client is accessing a mail host in order to access electronic mail messages the mail host mail interface with the application host in order to decide whether a publishing control should be embedded within the message. In one example the application host may provide a list of albums or online galleries to which the user has access or is authorized to post rich media content.

The publishing host includes a server system configured to enable access to content. For example the publishing host may include a web server that provides accesses to imagery content through a browser. The publishing host may be configured to interface with the application host and or mail host to receive imagery content selected for publication by the user.

In one implementation the software for publishing rich media content to the publishing host may operate on the publishing host . For example a menu or link such as Add to Web Gallery may direct the user to a landing page on the publishing host . In this configuration the application host may serve as an intermediary between the mail host and the publishing host . As such the application host e.g. on behalf of the mail host may forward to the publishing host attachments to be published and instructions regarding how they should be published.

Initially the host enables a user to access a message having associated imagery content . For example an electronic mail server may provide the user access to various email messages received over the Internet. Some of the messages may have attachments that include rich media content. The client receives a message including a representation of imagery content . For example referring to the client may receive an email message from his mom that includes attachments and . In particular attachment may include a photo and attachment may include a movie.

The host determines that the user has a publication capability on a publishing host . For example using the user s identification e.g. email address or other such ID the host may determine the publishing capabilities of the user. Such capabilities may include for example a list of online publishing services which the user is authorized to use and the particular albums or galleries in which the user is allowed to post rich media content. Such galleries or albums may be displayed to the user for example in an albums area of .

The host enables the user to select a representation of the imagery content . For example the host may provide a thumbnail or other representation of the imagery content associated with the attachment. Specifically thumbnails may be used to depict the imagery content of the attachments and . In the case of a thumbnail used for the movie attachment the thumbnail may include a title page of the movie a selected scene from the movie or a dynamic display that continuously alternates various scenes.

The host presents in association with the message a publishing control that enables the user to transmit the imagery content to the publishing host . For example referring to the publishing control may include a drag and drop interface that the user may use to drag and drop specific attachments to any of several albums on . Other publishing controls may enable the user to control certain aspects of the publication such as member notification creating tags and selecting new galleries as described above in reference to . Additional publishing controls may enable the user to designate rules for selecting and transmitting imagery content as described above in reference to .

The client presents in association with the message a publishing control that enables the user to transmit the imagery content to a publishing host . For example the client may control the user interface and accept user instruction to select attachments for transmission publication to selected albums or galleries.

The host enables the user to interact with the imagery control and the representation of the imagery content to publish the imagery content using the publishing host . For example the client may respond to user instruction in the form of a drag and drop operation with an attachment being moved onto a particular gallery or album.

As a result of the drag and drop operation performed on the client the client may provide information to the server. The host receives from a client a user instruction to publish the selected representation on the publishing host . The host may receive a command resulting from the drag and drop operation on the photo attachment to the Manchester United Soccer Blog album

The server transmits the imagery content to the publishing host . For example in response to receiving the drag and drop operation on the photo attachment the host may transmit the associated rich media content to the user designated online publishing service e.g. .Mac Web Gallery Flickr Picasa etc. and the user designated album or gallery in each application host

The host instructs the publishing host to enable other users to access the imagery content through a web browser . For example a publishing host may enable members or subscribers to access to the new content e.g. the new photo in the Manchester United Soccer Blog once the new content has been received. In particular the members or subscribers may use a Web browser to access and view the new imagery content. In addition the publishing host may send a notification e.g. via email indicating that new imagery content is available if for example the user has checked the Notify Members checkbox during the process of transmitting the photo.

An application host working with the mail host detects that the message includes image movie attachments . For example an application host may interface with the mail host to enable access to electronic mail messages through a web browser. The application host may detect that attachments are included with the email message and that the attachments include rich media content e.g. as opposed to text documents spreadsheets etc. Such determination may be made for example by examining the filename suffixes of the attachments e.g. JPG PNG GIF etc. and associating these with photos etc.

The application host displays an additional user interface for handling images and movies . For example the system e.g. using the mail client application may display user controls the such as a representation e.g. thumbnail of the attachment and user controls for selecting attachments to be transmitted to user specified albums or galleries. Additional user interfaces may enable the user to perform operations on such attachments. depict various user controls and user interfaces for handling image and movie attachments.

The application host enables the user son to make choices for publishing images movies . For example referring to the user may select attachments and to transmit to any of the albums . Referring to the user may use the Notify Members checkbox input tags using the tags area and select a new gallery using the Create New Gallery On control . Referring to the user may set up rules for automatically handling attachments that include rich media content.

The application host applies the user s choices for publishing images movies . For example based on user instructions the application host may transmit the imagery content identified by the user to the corresponding online publishing service e.g. Mac Web Gallery Flickr Picasa etc. and the user designated album or gallery in each.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows also may be performed by and apparatus also may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of a digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer may be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices may be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user may include other forms of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user may be received in other forms including acoustic speech near touch input or tactile input.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application host or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user may interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or other integration of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system may be interconnected by forms or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification includes many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations also may be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation also may be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination may in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems may generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. For example although various operations and systems referred to electronic mail messages other types of messaging may be used. In one configuration a wireless phone may be configured to process MMS Multimedia Messaging Service messages and publish images embedded therein. In another configuration an instant messaging host may be configured to process images embedded within instant messages.

Although some implementations were described with respect to imagery content such as pictures and video other implementations may enable other types of document to be published. For example a user may publish an audio file brochure or presentation.

