---

title: Method for selecting restoration path in a mesh network
abstract: A method of selecting a restoration path in a mesh telecommunication network is disclosed that advantageously is practical and flexible and may be pre-computed along with a service connection path during the setup of the connection. The information used to select the restoration path can be advantageously distributed among nodes in the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07450496&OS=07450496&RS=07450496
owner: 
number: 07450496
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070104
---
This application is a continuation of prior application Ser. No. 11 240 105 filed Sep. 30 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 180 852 which is a continuation of prior application Ser. No. 09 909 102 filed Jul. 19 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 982 951 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 257 029 filed on Dec. 21 2000 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to United States Utility patent application METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FAST RESTORATION IN A MESH NETWORK OF OPTICAL CROSS CONNECTS Ser. No. 09 474 031 filed on Dec. 28 1999 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates to telecommunications networks and more particularly to selecting restoration paths in a telecommunications network.

Modern telecommunication networks are reconfigurable and provide for fast restoration from network failures. For example and in the context of optical networking Synchronous Optical Network SONET rings provide the primary technology for optical layer communication and restoration from network failures. SONET rings tend to be capacity inefficient when compared to mesh topologies in networks with a high degree of connectivity and when because of size limitations connections are forced to route through many interconnected rings. As optical cross connects OXCs are deployed within today s transport networks based on wavelength division multiplexing WDM the potential emerges to provide on demand establishment of high bandwidth connections also referred to in the art as lightpaths . Emerging standards such as Multi Protocol Lambda Switching MPL ambda S provide a standardized optical network control plane that is essential for building an effective platform for vendor interoperability. See e.g. D. Awduche et al. Multi Protocol Lambda Switching Combining MPLS Traffic Engineering Control with Optical Crossconnects IETF Internet Draft http www.ietf.org internet drafts draft awduche mpls te optical 01.txt November 1999 . Unfortunately few recent contributions to the art have addressed the need for fast failure restoration in such networks.

In co pending commonly assigned United States Utility patent application METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FAST RESTORATION IN A MESH NETWORK OF OPTICAL CROSS CONNECTS Ser. No. 09 474 031 filed on Dec. 28 1999 which is incorporated by reference herein a restoration methodology is disclosed that utilizes pre computed restoration routes disjoint from the normal communication path but wherein the channels wavelengths may be chosen dynamically during the restoration process. The invention therein disclosed can potentially provide restoration competitive with SONET ring restoration speeds. There is however still a need for a flexible and practical methodology for selecting an advantageous restoration path that may be utilized in a restoration process such as the one disclosed in the above application. Moreover there is a need for a distributed approach to restoration that permits the information needed for restoration path selection to be distributed throughout the network with a minimum amount of signaling overhead.

A method of selecting a restoration path in a mesh telecommunication network is disclosed that advantageously is practical and flexible and may be pre computed along with a service connection path during the setup of the connection. The restoration path is selected from a graph of links in the network which are physically diverse from the service path. For example In the context of optical networking the links do not share a common fiber span with the service path. Weights are computed for the links using an array representing a restoration link capacity which is expressed as a number of channels wavelengths in optical networking needed on each link over possible failures of the service path. The restoration path is selected by minimizing the weights for each link in the restoration path. In accordance with another aspect of the invention the information used to select the restoration path is advantageously distributed among nodes in the network. A source node selecting a service path through the network to a destination node sends a first message along the service path to the destination node thereby setting up cross connections for the service path. The destination node sends a second message back to the source node along nodes in the service path responsible for maintaining link information whereby the nodes update the message with an array representing a restoration link capacity channels wavelengths needed on each link over possible failures of the service path. The array is used by the source node to select the restoration path. The source node then sends a third message along the service path and the restoration path to reserve resources. This provides a distributed approach for establishment of restorable connections in a dynamically reconfigurable mesh network with a minimum amount of signaling overhead. Restoration paths are advantageously diverse from service connection paths while restoration link capacity advantageously may be shared among different connections that would re route over the restoration path during non simultaneous failures.

These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

With reference to optical mesh network comprises optical cross connects OXCs and optical transport systems OTSs . The optical cross connects depicted as boxes labeled O in provide end to end optical connections sometimes colloquially referred to as lightpaths. The optical transport systems in comprise pairs of bidirectional Wavelength Division Multiplexer WDM terminals depicted as boxes labeled W and amplifiers at intermediate locations where needed depicted as boxes labeled A . The WDM terminals multiplex optical signals at different wavelengths into a single optical fiber for each direction of transmission using gratings or some equivalent technology. Each signal multiplexed by the optical transport system is traditionally referred to as an optical channel each channel transporting a signal e.g. SONET OC 48 192 SDH STM 16 48 Gigabit Ethernet usually associated with a link between nodes of higher layer telecommunications networks such as routers or ATM switches. The signals between the OXC and the WDM terminals are typically converted to a shorter standard cross office wavelength by optical transponders not shown in usually to avoid wavelength translation within the OXC. Collections of optical fibers that are co located in the same cable conduit or substructure between two consecutive points of access such as a manhole central office or amplifier site are referred to herein as fiber spans. An optical link as that term is utilized herein is used to refer to a collection of channels that route over the same fiber spans between a pair of OXCs. Accordingly mesh network may be represented as consisting of multiple layers an optical network graph and a fiber span network graph illustrated by respectively. The fiber span network is the graph G N E where N is the set of nodes that represent locations generally where WDM equipment can be placed and E is the set of fiber spans. Let Nbe the set of the OXC nodes where NcN. The graph of the optical network is G N E where Nis the set of OXC nodes and Eis the set of optical links which are routed on the fiber span network of G.

Each OXC has an associated optical layer control function integrated with the OXC or residing physically on a separate controller which controls the cross connections of the OXCs and which can be used to communicate with the other OXCs. See e.g. co pending commonly assigned United States utility patent applications METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ROUTING INFORMATION OVER OPTICAL AND ELECTRICAL PATHWAYS Ser. No. 09 685 953 filed Oct. 12 2000 CONTROL OF OPTICAL CONNECTIONS IN AN OPTICAL NETWORK Ser. No. 09 769 735 filed Jan. 26 2001 and CONTROL OF OPTICAL CONNECTIONS IN AN OPTICAL NETWORK Ser. No. 09 769 780 filed Jan. 26 2001 which are incorporated by reference herein. It is assumed without limitation that the optical layer control function is distributed. The cross connection controllers can communicate with one another across a dedicated signaling channel or a separate signaling network using known protocols such as Open Shortest Path Forwarding OSPF . See e.g. J. Moy OSPF Version 2 IETF Network Working Group RFC 2328 April 1998 R. Coltun The OSPF Opaque LSA Option IETF Network Working Group RFC 2370 July 1998 . OSPF link state advertisement LSA messages can be utilized to disseminate topology and channel usage information. It is advantageous to configure one OXC as a master OXC node for each fiber span and optical link thereby allocating the control of the fiber span and optical link data among the OXCs in an unambiguous way. The master nodes are responsible for maintaining the link Information. For each fiber span if there is an OXC present at both terminating nodes of the fiber span one can arbitrarily configure the OXC with lexicographically or numerically higher ID as the master. If there is only one OXC node present at a terminating node of the fiber span then this node can be designated the master. If neither node has an OXC present it is necessary to configure a neighbor OXC node as the proxy master of the fiber span. See tables in and for examples. The two OXC nodes for each optical link should maintain information about the fiber spans which the optical link passes through and the masters of the fiber spans. All the information can be static and provided by initial configuration.

It is assumed that mesh network provides for restorable connections that may be established and torn down dynamically. Selecting optimal restoration parameters involves a variety of considerations and objectives.

First it is advantageous to select a restoration path Pthat is physically diverse from the service connection path P. In other words the restoration path and the service connection path should not belong to a group of links referred to in the art as a shared risk link group sharing some common infrastructure that could subject the links to a possible single failure e.g. a backhoe cutting a single fiber conduit. Consider the optical link map representation of which has six OXC nodes the location nodes in deployed with OXCs and ten optical links indexed as set forth in the table. If the service path for a connection from OXC node A to OXC node C routes directly over the optical link from A C optical link ID 3 then it appears from that the restoration path from OXC node A to OXC node B to OXC node C link IDs 0 2 1 would be adequate. An examination of the fiber span network however reveals otherwise. In which has eight location nodes and nine fiber spans Indexed as set forth in the table it is clear that the restoration path A B C is not diverse from the service path A C. Accordingly in selecting a restoration path it is important to consider the routing of optical links over fiber spans and to avoid if topologically possible the sharing of any common fiber span.

Second it is advantageous to share restoration channels on a common link of multiple restoration paths in particular where fiber span failures are non simultaneous. Unused channels may be reserved i.e. not used for service paths to ensure that adequate restoration capacity is available upon failure alternatively a dedicated restoration connection referred to in the art as 1 1 protection can be utilized although this tends to be impractical except for some high priority services . A single restoration channel on a common link of multiple restoration paths can be shared by non simultaneous fiber span failures. For example a channel can be used on a link of restoration path Pto reroute service path Pdue to failure of fiber span i along P. That same channel can be used to reroute service path Pto restoration path Pdue to failure of fiber span j along Pas long as failures i and j do not occur simultaneously. On the path of P enough channels should be reserved such that in any single fiber span failure there are enough channels to restore all failed service paths. The total reserved channels however should be as small as possible.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention the restoration path is selected in a manner that permits restoration channels to be dynamically assigned and shared when a given fiber span fails. The restoration path selection method can be utilized without limitation with a restoration architecture as disclosed in co pending commonly assigned United States Utility Patent Application. METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FAST RESTORATION IN A MESH NETWORK OF OPTICAL CROSS CONNECTS Ser. No. 09 474 031 filed on Dec. 28 1999 which is incorporated by reference herein. As disclosed therein pre computed restoration paths may be stored at the endpoint nodes of the connection and utilized upon a network failure to reroute the service connection. Although described with particular reference to the restoration method described therein one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize how to utilize the invention with other restoration methods. Requests to establish optical connections arrive at an OXC typically from a higher layer node e.g. an Internet Protocol IP layer or element management system via a User Network Interface UNI . See e.g. McAdams L. and J. Yates eds. User to Network Interface UNI Service Definition and Lightpath Attributes OIF Architecture Group OIF2000.61 2000 . Each optical connection request may include restoration options such as whether the connection should be restorable if it fails due to a network failure and if so whether the channels of the restoration path are dedicated to this connection or shared among other connections that fail from other potential non simultaneous failures. If shared the network resources can be used more efficiently because fewer total channels need to be reserved for restoration. For example a connection request V can be represented in the form where source is the origin OXC ID destination is the terminus OXC ID restoration type is the type of restoration capability required for the connection e.g. 1 1 non restorable mesh restorable and size is the bandwidth needed for the connection e.g. represented as the number of channels needed for the connection .

The process of computation of service path and restoration path for a connection request relies on the information about the availability of optical network resources and the path selection objective. A general heuristic is to create some cost metric and select a minimum weight path among all suitable paths that minimizes the cost metric and has the required size for the connection request. Additionally several information metrics are involved in the path selection process when restoration resources may be shared between different restoration paths. For example each link has a maximum number of Installed channels per the link augmentation planning processes of that total some channels are assigned to service paths while other channels are reserved for restoration paths. The remaining channels are unassigned and free to be allocated to new connections. Changes in the metrics need to be advertised e.g. as part of LSAs in extended OSPF so that accurate information is available to every node.

SERVICE PATH. Selecting a service path in response to the communication request accordingly may be accomplished by computing a path between the source and destination that minimizes some cost metric and which has the required size for the connection request. It is assumed that each OXC node has knowledge of the whole optical network topology and the number of free channels on each link as well as some optical link weight function. A known shortest path algorithm such as Dijkstra s shortest path algorithm may be used to compute the minimal weight path through the network.

RESTORATION PATH Selecting a restoration path in response to a communication request requiring a mesh restorable connection is more challenging. It should be noted that the restoration path may not be the min weight path in any typical sense because it can share restoration resources with other restoration paths if shared restoration is required. Note that although to provide clarity with the example Ewas defined above as the set of fiber spans without loss of generality it can also represent any set of shared risk link groups SRLGs over which one wishes to provide restoration. It is advantageous to define the following parameters 

The parameters Sand Rcan be determined by a capacity planning and augmentation process. Note that the quantities Sand Rhave been broken out for clarity herein nevertheless it is also possible to let the channels for service paths and restoration paths be chosen from a combined pool of free channels.

All of the information needed for the computation of the service and restoration paths could be maintained at every OXC node. This would require maintaining the entire two dimensional array failneed at each OXC node. Whenever a new connection is provisioned the matrix would need to be updated e.g. by flooding of link state advertisement messages. In accordance with another aspect of the invention however portions of the array can be distributed around certain nodes whereby the array portions are updated along the restoration and service paths during connection establishment. This serves to avoid flooding and minimizes the storage requirements for this information. Thus in accordance with a preferred embodiment of this aspect of the Invention each cross connect stores only the one dimensional arrays failneed for each fiber span s for which it is a master node and failneedfor each optical link k Efor which it is a master node.

As an example of the processing performed in consider a connection to be established between OXC node A and OXC node F . First a service path is selected e.g. P A C F . A PATH message is sent along the path A C F. When node F receives the PATH message it sends out a backwards RESV message from node F to node A . However link F to C uses three fiber spans with fiber span master nodes C E F respectively. So node F sends the RESV message along the path F E C A to compute the Minformation. After node A receives the RESV message it computes the restoration path for example PA D F. Then node A sends two PATH messages from node A to node F . One is forwarded along A C E F with Pinformation to store the restoration path at node F and update the failneed arrays along the way. The last message is forwarded along the path A D F and contains Pinformation to update the failneedand maxfailneedarrays. Of course each link master node needs to update the number of free channels and number of reserved channels and let OSPF to flood to all other nodes.

The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary but not restrictive and the scope of the invention disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. For example the detailed description has been presented particularly in the context of an optical networking architecture however the principles of the present invention could be extended to other cross connect technologies. Such an extension could be readily implemented by one of ordinary skill in the art given the above disclosure.

