---

title: Video on hold for VoIP system
abstract: A system for placing a telephone call on hold and presenting video to the user that has been placed on hold comprises video on hold arbiter that either is a part of the server or the switch of an IP telephony system. The video on hold arbiter comprises a hold monitoring module, a switch interface module and a media source interface module. The video on hold arbiter monitors calls between parties for the selection of a hold signal indicating that a first caller is placing a second caller on hold. The video on hold arbiter then determines the capabilities of the first caller and the second caller, a source video signal and switches the call to a video-on-hold status. In the video-on-hold status, the video on hold arbiter provides a video signal to the caller on hold from the determined source video and matching the capabilities of the party on hold. Video on hold arbiter and monitors for an off hold signal. Once the off hold signal is detected, the video on hold arbiter reestablishes the video and audio connections between the parties. The present invention also includes a variety of methods including a method for initializing and configuring a video on hold system and a method for providing video content when a call is placed on hold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08335301&OS=08335301&RS=08335301
owner: ShoreTel, Inc.
number: 08335301
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071228
---
The present invention relates telephony such as that using Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP in particular distributed telephony systems that use VoIP handsets in conjunction with computer displays. Still more particularly the present invention relates to new functionality for such system including a video on hold functionality.

The prior art includes a variety of distributed telephony systems. Traditional switched network systems have given way to new telephony systems that use VoIP. These VoIP systems offer the same functionality as more traditional switched system such as the ability to transfer calls put calls on hold automated attendant functions hunt groups etc. These systems also offer additional functionality for example one feature with existing telephony systems is referred to as music on hold MOH . Music on hold typically involves using a telephony system to play music to the called party that has been placed on hold. In today s world existing telephony systems are limited to either playing music on hold or nothing silence when the party is placed on hold.

The new telephony systems that use VoIP offer a variety of services in addition to just audio communication. For example interactive video is more and more common with unified communications systems that enable the party to converse using not only voice but video allowing for more face to face experience and enhancing the communication with the clues provided by the image of the party on the call.

The present invention overcomes the deficiencies and limitations of the prior art by providing a system and method for placing a telephone call on hold and presenting video to the user that has been placed on hold. In one embodiment the present invention comprises video on hold arbiter that either is a part of the server or the switch of an IP telephony system. The video on hold arbiter comprises a hold monitoring module a switch interface module and a media source interface module. The video on hold arbiter monitors calls between parties for the selection of a hold signal indicating that a first caller is placing a second caller on hold. The video on hold arbiter then determines the capabilities of the first caller and the second caller a source video signal and switches the call to a video on hold status. In the video on hold status the video on hold arbiter provides a video signal to the caller on hold from the determined source video and matching the capabilities of the party on hold. Video on hold arbiter and monitors for an off hold signal or termination of the call. Once the off hold signal is detected the video on hold arbiter reestablishes the video and audio connections between the parties. The present invention also includes a variety of methods including a method for initializing and configuring a video on hold system and a method for providing video content when a call is placed on hold.

A system and method for providing video on hold capabilities for a telephony system is described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention. For example the present invention is described in one embodiment below with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present invention applies to any type of computing device that can receive a data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

Enterprises often have several offices or call centers that are located in a plurality of disparate locations. To interconnect all of these sites enterprise telephony systems have been developed. Enterprise telephony systems which comprise a set of voice switches and servers offer enterprise applications enabled by the integration of computer systems with telephony services. The software that supports the computer integrated functionality is generally implemented as a client server environment in which the participants or clients distributed telephony users communicate with a server. Computer integrated features rely not only on a server s application platform but also on the availability of the network that connects the switches servers and application services.

The first site A includes a server a switch A three endpoints analog phone A IP phone and software phone a device running a call manager software application and a storage device . The switch A represents a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP device to which a number of endpoints can be coupled such as analog phones A IP phones and software phones softphones . In the illustrated embodiment the switch A is coupled to the network . The switch A is also coupled to the public switched telephone network PSTN via an analog or digital trunk line e.g. a T1 or E1 interface . In the illustrated configuration the switch A provides an interface for calls originating from or terminating on the PSTN .

An endpoint enables a user to carry on a phone call. Although in the illustrated embodiment the first site A has three endpoints one analog phone A one IP phone and one softphone in other embodiments the first site A has different numbers and types of endpoints. An endpoint is coupled to the switch the server or both. Each of the endpoints can also include a display device not shown that is used in conjunction with the phone of the endpoint.

An endpoint has a user interface to send data to and receive data from a user. The analog phone A has for example a Telephone User Interface TUI that sends data through a speaker and receives data through a microphone and a keypad. The IP phone has for example both a TUI and a graphical user interface that sends data through a display device associated with the IP phone . In one embodiment the IP phone s graphical user interface also receives data from a touch screen display device associated with the IP phone . The softphone has for example a software application that runs on a computer and sends data through a display device and a speaker and receives data through a microphone a keyboard and a pointing device.

A device running a call manager software application such as a computer controls one or more endpoints with which it is associated. Call manager offers a user an interface through which he can perform call related functions. While shown as operational as a separate module in this embodiment and those skilled in the art will recognize that in other embodiments the call manager may be operational as part of the switch .

Although in the illustrated embodiment the first site A has only one call manager in other embodiments the first site A has a different number of call managers . Also more than one call manager can control the same endpoint. The association between a call manager and an endpoint that it controls is accessed through the server .

The server is configured to implement features or functions of the present invention. The server is coupled to the network and can also be coupled to one or more endpoints such as IP phone and softphone . The server will be further discussed below with reference to .

The storage device contains directory information including directory entries and associations between directories and phones. In one embodiment the storage device also contains information regarding the directory context of a phone. Alternatively this information can be stored in the server . In one embodiment directory context information includes one or more of the following 1 a portion of a directory that is currently available for presentation the portion could include e.g. information from all entries versus information from entries that meet certain criteria 2 a filter if any that was used to determine the entries in 1 3 of the entries in 1 which entries are currently being presented by the phone 4 of the entries in 3 which entry is currently navigated to 5 what call function if any the directory was invoked during. Note that since the directory context specifies the information presented by the phone storing the directory context enables later determination of what information is being presented by the phone.

Also note that directory context information need not include all items 1 5 . For example if the entire directory and the filter 2 are known the directory portion available for presentation 1 can be determined. Directory context information will be further explained below. In the illustrated embodiment the storage device is directly coupled to the server . In an alternate embodiment the storage device is coupled to the server via the network .

One skilled in the art will appreciate that additional networking devices not shown can be added to the first site A for example if needed to support additional endpoints servers or other systems. For example the first site A can include a second switch and an edge router to couple the first site A to the network and to provide local area connectivity for the first and second switches A B. One skilled in the art will also recognize that numerous configurations of switches and communications links are contemplated. For example PSTN links can be coupled to multiple switches at several points within the topology and soft switches can also be used.

The second site B similarly includes an endpoint analog phone B and a switch B. The configuration of the second site B demonstrates that a server is not required for each site. Switch B of the second site B can be managed by server that is illustrated in the first site A. A call can involve more than one switch. For example a call that originates from the PSTN and terminates on an endpoint that is communicatively coupled to switch B of the second site B involves two switches switch A of the first site A and switch B of the second site B. In addition each switch A B can be managed by a different server .

In one embodiment of the present invention the network is a partially public or a wholly public network such as the Internet. The network can also be a private network or include one or more distinct or logical private networks e.g. virtual private networks or wide area networks . Additionally the communication links to and from the network can be wire line or wireless i.e. terrestrial or satellite based transceivers . In one embodiment of the present invention the network is an IP based wide or metropolitan area network.

The system of the present invention also includes a media source adapted for communication with the server via the network . Under the direction and control this of the server the call manager or the switch the media source provides video information for display in conjunction with the use of any of the endpoints A or B. The media source and its operation will be described in more detail below with reference to .

Referring now to two embodiments of the present invention are shown. shows an embodiment of the present invention in which a video on hold arbiter is part of the software operational on the server . shows another embodiment of the present invention in which the video on hold arbiter is part of the software operational on the switch . Essentially the present invention converts the server or the switch to a media proxy server for delivering video content on a call is placed on hold.

Referring now to is a block diagram of a server architecture according to one embodiment of the present invention is shown. In this embodiment server is configured to implement features or functions of the present invention. Server includes a processor . The processor can be a conventional processing device such as a general purpose microprocessor.

Server also includes a memory . The memory includes program instructions or functional units that implement features of the present invention. Specifically the memory includes a telephony management software TMS unit a telephony application programming interface TAPI unit a directory unit and the video on hold arbiter .

In one embodiment the memory also includes one or more application units that interact with the TMS unit and the TAPI unit to enable a specific computer integrated function. An application unit uses the TAPI unit to exchange data with the TMS unit . The TMS unit is able to communicate with and manage one or more switches . For example with reference to the TMS unit included in the server can manage the switches A B. Through the TAPI unit the TMS unit presents an application with a computer telephony integration CTI view of these switches A B. This allows the application to manage the switches A B. Such switches A B operate without an associated TMS unit if CTI features are not being used.

In the illustrated embodiment the server includes one application unit directory unit . In general the directory unit enables a phone to access a directory and use the directory in conjunction with other phone functions. In one embodiment directory unit is implemented as a service that interacts with TMS unit . Communication or data exchange is between TMS unit and directory unit . Although directory unit is illustrated as executing on the server directory unit can be distributed among computing devices as is known to one of skill in the art. For example the functionality enabled by directory unit can be implemented in a client server fashion by having the client user s local system such as a general purpose computer or endpoint perform some functions and having the server directory unit perform others. As another example some or all of the functionality enabled by directory unit can be implemented by having a switch perform some or all functions.

In the illustrated embodiment the server includes the video on hold arbiter . The video on hold arbiter is software or routines for placing a telephone call on hold and presenting video to the user that has been placed on hold. The video on hold arbiter monitors calls between parties for the selection of a hold signal indicating that a first caller is placing a second caller on hold. The video on hold arbiter then determines the capabilities of the first caller and the second caller a source video signal and switches the call to a video on hold status. In the video on hold status the video on hold arbiter provides a video signal to the caller on hold from the determined source video and matching the capabilities of the party on hold. The video on hold arbiter and monitors for an off hold signal. Once the off hold signal is detected the video on hold arbiter reestablishes the video and audio connections between the parties. The video on hold arbiter is described in more detail below with rooms to and .

Referring now to a block diagram of a switch architecture according to one embodiment of the present invention is shown. In this embodiment switch is configured to implement features or functions of the present invention. Switch includes a processor . The processor can be a conventional processing device such as a general purpose microprocessor.

Switch also includes a memory . The memory also includes software and routines not shown conventionally used to operate a switch in a VoIP telephony system . For example the switch includes software routines for performing call monitoring transferring calls placing calls on hold establishing hunt groups automated attendant functions etc. The memory also includes program instructions or functional units that implement the features of the present invention. Specifically the memory includes the video on hold arbiter . The video on hold arbiter has the same functionality as that described above where the video on hold arbiter is located within the server only that the video on hold arbiter is operational as part of the switch . The video on hold arbiter is described in more detail below with rooms to and .

Referring now to one embodiment of the video on hold arbiter is shown. The video on hold arbiter comprises a hold monitoring module an initialization module a configuration and quality determination module a hold request processing module a switch interface module and a media source interface module . These components cooperate together to provide the functionality of the present invention. The operation of these modules and can also be better understood with reference to below in addition to the description that follows.

The hold monitoring module is software and routines for determining whether a caller has input a signal requesting utilization of the video on hold functionality. In one embodiment the hold monitoring module interfaces with the call manager to determine whether any requests for video on hold has been received from an endpoint. The hold monitoring module is adapted for communication with the call manager by a signal line . The hold monitoring module is advantageously able to identify when a request for video on hold has been received the parties on the call a first party holder that selected video and hold and one or more other parties holdee that have been placed on hold. The hold monitoring module is also adapted for communication with the hold request processing module to provide information about the holder and holdee.

The initialization module is software and routines for initializing operation of the video on hold functionality. The initialization module is coupled by signal line to the other modules and for initializing their operation. The initialization module is also coupled to signal line for communication with the call manager to enable specific endpoints so that they are able to utilize the video on hold functionality. In one embodiment initialization of different endpoints includes enabling an endpoint to use video on hold functionality and set user and system preferences for providing video. For example the user or system administrator may specify a video source to be used with video on hold operations for the user. This may include both the specification of a media source as well as the type of media e.g. streaming video taped video still images etc. that should be delivered. The initialization module also identifies the media sources and which content is to be used for whom.

The configuration and quality determination module is software and routines for determining the video display and communication capabilities of each party to a call. Once the hold monitoring module has identified a holder and one or more holdee s the endpoints utilized by the holder and holdee s are identified and measured. In one embodiment the configuration and quality determination module determines the video display capabilities of the endpoints. For example the screen resolution may be determined since it may vary from a high resolution flat panel display to the screen of a mobile phone. The configuration and quality determination module also determines a selected communication channel that will be used between the media source and the holdee and in some cases the holder the available bandwidth of the selected communication channel between the media source and the holdee. The configuration and quality determination module is adapted for communication with the call manager to make such determinations and the hold request processing module for use of the information for the video on hold operation.

The hold request processing module is software and routines for processing a hold request. Processing a hold request includes receiving and processing a signal from the hold monitoring module indicating a user has requested a video on hold operation interacting with the configuration and quality determination module to determine the capabilities of the endpoint controlling the switch interface module to place the callers on hold and controlling the media source interface module to deliver video content to the callers on hold. The operation of the hold request processing module is described in more detail below with reference to . The hold request processing module is coupled to signal line for communication with the other modules this and .

The switch interface module is software and routines for communicating with and controlling the switch . The switch interface module is coupled by signal line to the switch and the server . The switch interface module allows the video on hold arbiter and more particularly the hold request processing module to control the switch to place a caller on hold to remove a caller from hold status to connect the media source to caller to identify parties to call and to perform other operations relating to connecting reconnecting and disconnecting callers and their associated computing systems from one another.

The media source interface module is software and routines for allowing the hold request processing module to control the media source . The media source interface module allows the hold request processing module to specify which of a plurality of different media sources See will be provided by the media source . The media source interface module also allows the hold request processing module to specify the format and resolution of the video information provided by the media source . The media source interface module is coupled to signal line for communication with the hold request processing module and the media source .

Referring now to an example of a distributed telephony system utilizing the present invention is shown. In particular shows a diagram illustrating an example with a first caller communicating with a second caller and how the present invention switches to and from a video on hold status. As shown in the first caller has a system that includes a computer for displaying video and a handset for audio input and output. Similarly the second caller has a system that includes a computer for splitting video in a handset for audio input and output. These system configurations are provided only by way of example and those skilled in the art will recognize that there are a variety of other configurations for the systems of the first caller and second caller . Initially a call is established between the first caller and the second caller . This call could be audio only video only or both video and audio. The call is represented by dashed line . If the call is audio only communication is between the handset of the first caller and the handset of the second caller . If the call is video only interactive live video can be transmitted between the computer of the first caller and the computer of the second caller with video from the computer of the first caller displayed on the computer of the second caller and vice versa. Once the second caller selects a video on hold operation the first caller is placed on hold and video is delivered from the media source to the computer of the first caller as indicated by the dashed line . In one embodiment the media source is also coupled to the computer of the second caller to deliver video content. In an alternate embodiment the second caller continues to receive the images transmitted by the computer of the first caller . Once the second caller cancels or deselects the video of hold operation the call and the state of video transmission is returned to its original state prior to selection of the video on hold operation in which the first caller receives video from the second caller and vice versa as indicated by dashed line .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the example of represents the simplest of cases and that the present invention includes a variety of alternate embodiments. In one embodiment the user putting another caller on hold is at an operator or front desk terminal. In this case the video source utilized may be from a video server that provides information about the company s products or services. In another embodiment users may be associated with a particular department or group. In this case the video source utilized may include targeted messaging and maybe from a streaming video server. For example a person in a human resources department may automatically provide videos on insider trading or sexual harassment when they place a user on hold. In yet another embodiment the present invention may be operational in a scenario where multiple users are engaged in a phone conference that includes video. In this case the system of each user displays a window with multiple panes each pane showing an image of the other parties on the video conference call. When a user selects the video on hold operation each of the other remaining users receives video content from the media source in the pane where the user that selected the video on hold operation was previously displayed.

Referring now to an embodiment of the media source is shown as comprising a media gateway server a streaming video server video files video from a live camera still image files video output from a television receiver and audio sources . The media gateway server is a conventional server for delivering video content as will be understood to those skilled in the art. The media gateway server is coupled to the network as shown in and to the communication bus . The media gateway server is adapted for communication and control by the video on hold arbiter such that the media gateway server is capable of delivering information content from any of the sources and coupled to the communication bus . The source of the video media does not need to be in a specific format. The media gateway server will interface with a video format converter not shown which will convert the video source to the appropriate video format s being used with the communication system. The video source may or may not be associated with an audio stream. In the case of video sources associated with an audio source the audio streams associated with a video source will replace the telephony system music on hold. The streaming video server the video files camera still image files television receiver and audio sources are of conventional types as will be known to those skilled in the art. Those skilled in the art will also understand that other sources of video and audio may be coupled to communication bust . While the media source is shown as including a plurality of media sources those skilled in the art will recognize that the media source can be a single source with a video on hold arbiter retrieving the media to be played.

Referring now to B and C a method for performing video on hold is shown. Referring now to the method begins by monitoring for a HOLD signal from a holder. Next the method determines whether the HOLD signal has been detected. If not the method returns to step to continue to monitor for a HOLD signal from a holder. If the method detected a HOLD signal in step the process continues to determine whether video hold functionality has been enabled.

If the video functionality has been enabled the process continues to determine a video source. The present invention advantageously provides video from anyone of a plurality of sources. As was just described the media source includes a media gateway server that is coupled to a plurality of different sources such as but not limited to a video streaming server video files a live camera mass communication receivers still image files and audio sources . Furthermore there may be a plurality of media sources . The video on hold arbiter advantageously can control the video context based on a number of different factors. For example the video content provided may be determined by a user ID a user s group a user s function the recipient of the video content etc. In one embodiment the video source is determined according to characteristics of user. In another embodiment the video source is determined using characteristics of the recipient. In yet another embodiment the source of the video is based on caller location and or caller a location. Those skilled in the art will recognize that anyone of the above factors or combinations of these factors can be used to determine the source of the video content.

Next the method determines the capabilities of the phone the computing device preferences and other information of the holder the caller placing other caller s on video hold . Here capabilities refers to capabilities characteristics like location or language of the computing devices communication links preferences and any other information that affects the communication to or from the phone and display of the holder. Then the method determines capabilities of the phone the computing device the preferences and other information of the holdee one or more callers on video hold . This similary includes any information other information that affects the communication to or from the phone and display of the holdee. Then the method determines the type and quality of video to deliver based on information about the holder and the holdee s . In one embodiment this step is performed by the configuration and quality determination module . The present invention is particularly advantageous because the video on hold arbiter customizes the video content delivered based on the information gathered about the holder and the holdee from steps and . For example different video content may be selected based on language which may be a preference of the holdee. Similarly different kinds of video content based on the holdee s system are delivered. For example the holdee s system may dictate a low resolution format may allow a high resolution format for the video content may require specific screen format or maybe require a thin client for mobile devices. The holdee s system may even dictate whether video content can be delivered at all or whether the system is limited to audio.

In yet another embodiment the information gathered about the holder and the holdee from steps and is used to deliver the content in the most efficient manner. In other words the determination made in step takes into account which media source will be used and its connections to the holdee s system. The preferred embodiment of the present invention is in a distributed telephony system. In such a system there may be a plurality of distributed media sources . These media sources can be located at varying distances from and with varying connections speeds and types to the holdee. The video on hold arbiter considers these factors and selects the most effective media source and communication channel in which to deliver the video content to the holdee s system. For example the video on hold arbiter selects the media source based on location backup resources communication channel demand upon a particular resource and other criteria as the will be understood to those skilled in the art. In still another embodiment the video on hold arbiter is interactive and adaptive. Thus during the time when a particular holdee is in the video on hold status the video on hold arbiter may switch between different media sources to provide the video content.

Once a video type quality and source have been determined then the method switches the call to an on hold status. Referring now also to the method sends the video content from the media source to the holdee s system. Next the method monitors for an off hold signal or call termination. Next the method determines whether an off hold signal has been received. If not the method determines whether the call has been terminated. If the call has not been terminated the method loops back to step and to send video to the Holdee s system and monitor for an off hold signal. If the method determined in step that the call was terminated the method ends the call and the video on hold operation is complete.

If the method determined in step that an off hold signal was received the method reestablishes the video connection between the holder and holdee. Then transmission of video from the video source is terminated and the call is switched off hold and the method is complete.

If the method determined in step that video hold was not enabled the method transitions from step to step of . In step the method switches the call to an on hold status with or without audio in a conventional manner. Since video on hold is not enabled the system of the present invention defaults to a conventional on hold system where audio content is provided based on the preferences set by the user. The method determines whether an off hold signal has been received and determines whether the call has been terminated. If neither of these events has occurred the method returns to step . If it is determined in step that an off hold signal has been received the call is switched off hold and the process is complete. If the method determines in step that the call was terminated the method ends the call and the method is complete.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the present invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the present invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the present invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

