---

title: Hydraulic container evacuator and method
abstract: A viscous material evacuator has a chamber to hold containers shaped as drums and has a plunger that presses into the interior of the drum to press out its highly viscous contents. The chamber has a hinged enclosure that has a hydraulically activated clamp that connects the two sides of the hinged enclosure. The hydraulically activated clamp can be arranged in series and also has a relief cartridge and pressure sensor to prevent the drum from becoming overpressurized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08070021&OS=08070021&RS=08070021
owner: Momentive Performance Materials
number: 08070021
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
The invention relates to a hydraulic system and method in particular for controlling a fastener for a container evacuator that evacuates silicone gum or other viscous material from a drum to a compounding system.

In a compounding system a viscous material is fed to a processing line where feed is mixed and additives are injected in proportions to produce a customized product. The feed material for these processes can be delivered in various containers. When delivered the material must be removed from the container for processing. For example a compounding system can require emptying material such as silicone gum from drums or similar containers. However the feed material may be very viscous and resistant to flow and hence resistant to removal from the delivery container.

Some container emptying processes use a plunger to drive through the container content to express the content for further processing. A considerable amount of pressure is needed in these processes to express a viscous material such as a silicone gum. The high expressing force exposes the materials container to very high mechanical stress. For reasons of weight and expense the containers are usually designed with very thin walls and a structure that is just sufficient to avoid damage to the container during transport. The container is not designed to withstand stress imposed during an emptying operation and the high pressure developed during the emptying operation can easily burst a container structure.

Reinforcing split metal sleeves or half shells can be placed around a container during an emptying operation to provide some structural integrity and resistance to bursting. However the mounting and closing off of the sleeves and half shells can be very complicated operations requiting considerable manual labor. The sleeve or half shells are particularly vulnerable to bursting where they are fastened together. Another disadvantage is that the sleeves or half shells must be adapted in an exact manner to the outside container dimensions thus sometimes requiring an inventory of sleeves or half shells to accommodate various sized containers.

Commonly assigned and copending patent application Knox et al. Ser. No. 11 536 700 filed Sep. 29 2006 and entitled FASTENER FOR A VISCOUS MATERIAL CONTAINER EVACUATOR AND METHOD teaches a secure enclosure for a viscous material container evacuator and method to remove viscous material from a delivery container to a processing system. The viscous material container evacuator comprises a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container at least one hinged closure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container and at least one motor activated fastener that secures the closure around the container. However while the motor activated fastener is advancement the fastener is only as secure a closure for the chamber as its particular activating mechanism. Accordingly there remains a need to provide an activating mechanism for a fastener to securely close a viscous material container evacuator

The invention provides a hydraulically driven activating mechanism for a fastener to securely close a viscous material container evacuator. The invention can be described as a viscous material container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container at least one hinged enclosure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container at least one hydraulically activated fastener that secures the enclosure around the container a hydraulic motor operatively part of the fastener and a relief cartridge controllably mounted with a hydraulic line to the motor to deliver a hydraulic drive pressure to the motor and comprising a bypass line around the motor and a pressure sensor to sense a pressure level of the hydraulic drive pressure and to divert hydraulic drive pressure from the motor when the pressure level is sensed.

In an embodiment the invention is a method to secure an enclosure of a viscous material container evacuator comprising applying a hydraulic force to drive a fastener shaft against a closure of a material extracting apparatus to enclose a container within the evacuator sensing the hydraulic force as the fastener is driven comparing the sensed hydraulic force to a set point and terminating applying the hydraulic force when the compared sensed hydraulic force is substantially the same as the set point.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material processing system comprising a viscous material feed system comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container at least one hinged enclosure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container at least one hydraulically activated fastener that secures the enclosure around the container a hydraulic motor operatively part of the fastener and a relief cartridge controllably mounted with a hydraulic line to the motor to deliver a hydraulic drive pressure to the motor and comprising a bypass line around the motor and a pressure sensor to sense a pressure level of the hydraulic drive pressure and to divert the hydraulic drive pressure from the motor when the pressure level is sensed and a viscous material compounding system that receives material expressed from the feed system.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material feed system comprising a container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container at least one hinged enclosure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container at least one hydraulically activated fastener that secures the enclosure around the container a hydraulic motor operatively part of the fastener and a relief cartridge controllably mounted with a hydraulic line to the motor to deliver a hydraulic drive pressure to the motor and comprising a bypass line around the motor and a pressure sensor to sense a pressure level of the hydraulic drive pressure and to divert the hydraulic drive pressure from the motor when the pressure level is sensed a feed tube that receives material expressed from a container by the container evacuator and a cutting apparatus that meters material from the feed tube to a processing system.

In still another embodiment the invention is a viscous material feed method comprising placing a viscous silicone gum containing drum into a material extracting apparatus securing enclosure of the material extracting apparatus around the drum by applying a hydraulic force to drive a fastener shaft against a closure of a material extracting apparatus to enclose a container within the evacuator sensing the hydraulic force as the fastener is driven comparing the sensed hydraulic force to a set point and terminating applying the hydraulic force when the compared sensed hydraulic force is substantially the same as the set point and evacuating viscous material from the drum by driving a plunger through the drum to express the silicone gum a viscous material compounding process.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container at least one hinged enclosure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container at least one motor activated fastener that secures the enclosure around the container and a hydraulic system that powers the motor comprising a hydraulic pressure supply and a relief cartridge that controls the pressure supply to activate the motor by diverting pressure supply from the motor when a set point pressure is attained.

And in another embodiment the invention is a method of controlling a battery of hydraulically operated fasteners to a viscous material container evacuator comprising setting a set point pressure for each fastener of the battery supplying an activating hydraulic fluid pressure to each fastener and diverting the applied pressure from each fastener as the set point for that fastener is attained.

The invention relates to the handling of a viscous material such as a silicone gum Silicone gum includes a viscous silicone or polysiloxane or organopolysiloxane that has the chemical formula RSiO where R organic groups such as methyl ethyl and phenyl. These materials typically comprise an inorganic silicon oxygen backbone . . . Si O Si O Si O . . . with attached organic side groups which can be four coordinate. In some cases organic side groups can be used to link two or more of these Si O backbones together.

By varying the Si O chain lengths side groups and crosslinking silicones can be synthesized with a wide variety of properties and compositions. They can vary in consistency from liquid to gel to rubber to hard plastic. Silicone rubber or silicone gum is a silicone elastomer typically having high temperature properties. Silicone rubber offers resistance to extreme temperatures being able to operate normally from minus 100 C. to plus 500 C. In such conditions tensile strength elongation tear strength and compression set can be superior to conventional rubbers.

A silicone gum can be extruded or molded into custom shapes and designs such as tubes strips solid cord or custom profiles within size restrictions specified by a manufacturer. Cord can be joined to make O Rings and extruded profiles can also be joined to make up seals.

It is desirable to provide a viscous feed system that accurately and efficiently processes viscous materials such as silicone gum for use in various applications. However these materials can be highly resistant to flow highly adhering highly cohering and or shear thickening and consequently difficult to handle. Accuracy of a packaging process and or accuracy of a process of obtaining a defined quantity of such material for example in a continuous process is costly when substantial time is required for cutting or separating of a quantity of the material from a larger quantity. Also it is costly and disadvantageous when an incorrect amount of material is used in a downstream process.

The material is delivered to a viscous feed system in a container such as a drum. Then the material is removed from the drum for processing. However the viscous nature of the material makes removal difficult particularly where removal of a quantified portion is desired for accurate feed to a processing system. A material evacuation process is one procedure for removing material from a container. In this procedure a platen is driven through the material container to force its contents to express out of the container. A material evacuation process exerts substantial force against a container wall which can result in frequent container rupture. Both the evacuator and any fastener to evacuator enclosures must be robustly capable of securing enclosure against the substantial force.

The invention provides a secure closure with a fastener that can with stand high forces exerted on a container wall during material evacuation. The fastener can include a hydraulic motor that drives a lock mechanism that includes a threaded shaft and a clamp block with a nub and a threaded channel that accepts the threaded shaft. The motor drives the threaded shaft to foreshorten the distance between a first closure lug and a lug on a second closure or on the evacuator wall to enclose the container for evacuation. Also an embodiment of the fastener addresses problems of misalignment between the drive shaft and threaded shaft that arise on account of part tolerance divergence and operational wear.

Features of the invention will become apparent from the drawings and following detailed discussion which by way of example without limitation describe preferred embodiments of the invention. In this application a reference to back means left on a drawing or drawings and a reference to forward means right on the drawing or drawings.

A preferred invention embodiment shown in the drawings illustrates the invention as a process to compound silicone gum into a base for forming articles. In the drawings is a schematic top view representation and is a schematic side view representation of a material processing system showing an integrated feed system and compounding system . The feed system includes a battery of material extracting apparatus MEA conveyor and chute . and are elevation views of the MEA and is a cut away side sectional view of a section of the MEA . The MEA includes container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and floor scale . The integrated feed system is controllably connected to controller . is a cut away view of an upper section of the drum press of and . As shown in and compounding system includes mixer roll mill conveyor belt and compounder .

The MEA serves to express the viscous material from a container to the compounding system . In typical operations 55 gallon steel drums from a pallet are dumped into totes and the totes approx. 80 pounds each are dumped into a Banbury mixer. However manually maneuvering drums from pallets can cause back and shoulder strains and injuries. In a preferred compounding operation of the invention with respect to and operation commences with delivery of a pallet of four drums of gum. While the container can be any material holding enclosure the drawings embodiment is a feed system including a method of evacuating a silicone gum containing drum. A suitable drum in the embodiment has full openable ends and has a cylindrical wall of steel fiberboard or other material structure for transporting a silicone gum material. The drum has opposite ends each of which is openable to accommodate a movable plunger at one end as hereinafter described.

The material in the drums may be identical or it may be of a variety of physical properties such as viscosity. The drums are removed from the pallet one by one by drum hauler such as from Easy Lift Equipment Co. Inc. 2 Mill Park Court Newark Del. 19713. The lid of each of three drums is removed and each of the drums is loaded by the hauler into a respective container evacuator which may be a Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press. Use of the dram hauler eliminates ergonomic risks associated with lifting and handling the heavy drums . The silicone gum is then forced from each drum in measured aliquots by the MEA into the conveyor . In the drawings embodiment the MEA comprises a container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus . The container evacuator can be a drum press which is a device that evacuates viscous or compacted contents from a drum. As illustrated in and the container evacuator is a press that comprises a substantially cylindrical chamber with hinged enclosures and for securing a drum removably within the chamber . The chamber and hinged enclosures and securely cradle the drum during a material extracting operation. A disc shaped platen fits into the chamber with a flat driving surface oriented perpendiculars to the longitudinal axis of the chamber and correspondingly perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of a drum held within the chamber .

The operation of feed system can be described with reference to and . In operation the press enclosures and are unlatched by activating fasteners to open enclosures and . The drum hauler is used to load a first drum into a press cavity defined by closed enclosures and . The drum is positioned by a locator ring at the base of the chamber . The press enclosures and resist axial expansion pressure exerted by plunger driving through drum . The enclosures and are secured by a plurality of fasteners which are described in detail with reference to and which are driven by a hydraulic motor as hereinafter described in detail with reference to and to .

Misalignment coupling serves to transmit mechanical power from one rotating shaft to another where the shafts are not in exact alignment. In the misalignment coupling is shown transmitting mechanical power from drive shaft to threaded shaft . In misalignment coupling is a three section part including back couple half and forward couple half and coupler section . Each couple half and has a configured interior that forms a continuous passageway with coupler section . Coupler section has back keys and forward keys that nest respectively into complementary key ways of back couple half and keyways of forward couple half . Connector has retaining groove and forward couple half has retaining groove and the couple halves and are retained by respective retaining rings and . The keyways and with inserted keys and and retaining rings and loosely connect each couple half and with the coupler section .

Back couple half interior passageway has an inner cylindrical splined surface adapted to receive a complementary splined surface of drive shaft and forward couple half has a splined surface adapted to receive the complementary splined surface having a reduced diameter back section of threaded shaft . The splined surfaces are configured and oriented to nestle within respective spline surfaces in an interdigitated manner. The term interdigitated means that the splines are interlaced as fingers of two hands can be joined in parallel.

Coupler section interior passageway portion has a smooth wall and this portion of the passageway has a larger diameter than back couple half or forward couple half diameters defined by grooves of the splined surfaces and . The coupler section connects the halves so that the spline configurations of the halves are misaligned to trap the drive shaft and threaded shaft to one another. The keys and are held by rings and with some degree of axial play and are placed 90 out of phase to one another to provide a slackened tolerance to both axial and angular misalignment between drive shaft and threaded shaft . The misalignment coupling configuration transmits drive shaft torque while accommodating axial and angular misalignment.

An overrun backoff mechanism is another embodiment illustrated in Restart pin and a restart spring are shown in through . illustrates an open fastener showing the threaded shaft substantially but not completely unthreaded from threaded channel . The restart pin and spring are imposed into a passage of the threaded shaft longitudinal axis. The shows the restart pin biased by the drive shaft against the threaded shaft hut with travel remaining within the passage . shows the lock fully closed with the restart pin advanced against the fully compressed restart spring imposing against the threaded shaft passage end. The restart pin pushes biases on the threaded shaft to cause it to fully extend and to reengage the clamp block. Then in an overrun condition as shown in the threaded shaft unthreads itself from the clamp block .

Another embodiment of the invention relates to hydraulic control of fasteners . In and each hydraulic motor has a relief cartridge with an hydraulic line connected to a hydraulic pump . The hydraulic line transmits hydraulic pressure from pump to each hydraulic motor of each fastener . An exemplary hydraulic motor with relief cartridge and hydraulic line ports and is illustrated in and schematically represented in .

With additional reference to and hydraulic fluid flow into port B and out of port A of hydraulic motor causes threaded shaft to rotate unscrewing itself from clamp block . This causes clamp block to extend. Once clamp block has extended to the point that clamp block comes into contact with lug as illustrated in clamp block is at its end of travel and can extend no further. If the hydraulic motor continues to run threaded shaft will continue unscrewing itself from clamp block . With no travel left for the clamp block threaded shaft will travel toward hydraulic motor compressing restart spring between restart spring pin and the threaded shaft . The threads on threaded shaft will eventually disengage from clamp block . With the threads of the threaded shaft disengaged from clamp block continued rotation of threaded shaft will cause no further travel in either threaded shaft or clamp block .

In an overrun situation hydraulic fluid flows into port A and out of port B of hydraulic motor causing rotation of threaded shaft in its tightening direction Restart spring presses on threaded shaft pushing its threads into the threaded bore of clamp block causing the threads to engage. Once the threads of clamp block and threaded shaft have engaged threaded shaft will travel toward lug . Threaded shaft will come in contact with lug . At this point clamp block will begin to retract. Once nub comes into contact with lug the torque required to rotate the threaded shaft will increase. Because the pressure differential from port A and B of hydraulic motor correlates to output torque the pressure drop across ports A to B of hydraulic motor correspondingly increases. As described hereinafter a maximum torque can be limited by controlling a maximum hydraulic pressure drop from port A to B of hydraulic motor according to a relief cartridge set point.

In a fastener unlocking cycle a solenoid of the spool valve directs fluid flow from port P to port B and from port A to port T resulting in hydraulic flow from port C to port D in each motor and . Flow from port C to port D actives each motor and to open each respective fastener . When an open situation is determined by PLC timing the PLC returns the valve to neutral. In an event that a motor fails to operate when hydraulically activated relief valve prevents pressure from increasing above a damage pressure. 

Again with reference to each MEA includes the container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus and each is set on a respective floor scale . In each MEA the feed tube is connected through the disc shaped platen to communicate with the press cavity . The platen is driven by hydraulic plunger . An operator can commence system operation at controller . When a cycle is activated by an operator a plunger of each container evacuator of the battery shown in is activated via control lines . Then as the screw conveyor starts turning the press platen with connected feed tube is forced by hydraulically driven plunger to travel down into the drum interior. As further illustrated in as platen traverses the drum longitudinal axis within the press cavity drum contents are displaced upward into a connecting orifice of the feed tube . As the platen completes traversing the drum axis all material is forced upward into the teed tube to be eventually expelled from the feed tube discharge port .

The material is cut into small pieces by cutting apparatus as it exits from the discharge port to the conveyor to charge to compounding system . Cutting can be accomplished by various cutting mechanisms including a cutting head disposed at an outlet end of the feed tube. For example Branch U.S. Pat. No. 5 797 516 incorporated hereto in its entirety discloses a cutting head formed by a knife that is detachably mounted in an axial direction and radial and tangential to the axial direction. The cutting head is situated relative to a feed tube about a common central longitudinal axis.

In the and embodiment the MEA includes a cutting apparatus located at discharge port . The cutting apparatus includes rails that secure cutting wire to guide the wire to cut material exiting the feed tube discharge port . The rails secure the cutting wire to traverse the feed tube longitudinal axis at discharge port when activated by controller via lines and .

The controller of illustrates an embodiment of the invention. Controller is responsively connected to loss of weight scales via lines to sense loss of weight as material is expressed from the drums to conveyor . The controller computes a weight charged of material charged to the conveyor by the difference between an initial weight of the MEA and initially emplaced and full drum . In the embodiment of the drawings the controller can sense an initial total weight of all the MEAs and emplaced full drums of the MEA battery of for example the three shown in . The controller monitors the combined weight as material in the drums is evacuated to the conveyor . The controller contemporaneously calculates a weight of material charged to the conveyor and hence to the compounding system according to a difference between the initial total weight and contemporaneously sensed total weight.

The controller also controls operation of cutting apparatus according to the calculated charged material weight. Initially the cutting apparatus can be programmed to make cuts of about football sized material for example to fit into a 14 inner diameter screw conveyor . Once a piece of material is cut from the feed tube discharge port floor scale senses a contemporaneous weight and feeds this signal back to the controller . When the controller senses a contemporaneous weight signal and calculates that a total charged weight is within a specified range of total material to be charged for example within 15 pounds of set point to the compounding system the controller can signal the cutting apparatus via lines to increase cut frequently to produce smaller diced pieces. The smaller diced pieces at approach to set point permit improved control of feed to attain a charged material weight within a prescribed tolerance range for example 2 pounds for a batch.

As the drum evacuation process is completed door fasteners of the hinged enclosures and open and a controller Run Screen displays NEW DRUM. A beacon light mounted on the container evacuator turns yellow indicating the drum is ready to be changed. The chamber hinged enclosures and open the hydraulic unit motor terminates. The door fasteners open and the empty drum is removed typically with the drum hauler. The evacuator is reloaded with a drum and the process repeated.

As material is charged from the MEAs to the screw conveyor the conveyor is turning at low rpms to feed the material to the mixer. The screw is programmed to stop turning 90 seconds after the last MEA makes its last cut. This time can be adequate to clear all material from the conveyor .

Conveyor transports and drops the cut silicone gum to chute to compounding system which includes mixer such as a Banbury roll mill conveyor belt and compounder . The material dropped from chute may be a feed of silicone gums of varying physical properties such as varying viscosity. In the mixer fumed silica the silicone gum and a treating agent can be added to form a densified polymer filler mass. After the gum feed is mixed it is dropped into the nip of roll mill where the material is rolled into a strip form. After a drop a programmed logic controller PLC for example controller verifies that the mixer drop door has opened then reclosed and is ready for feed. For any residual material that hangs in the chute a pusher is programmed to sweep a few seconds after the conveyor stops. This serves to scrape down the chute and ensure all material gets into the mixer to correctly formulate the batch.

The mill imparts a final mix to fully incorporate filler and to cool material. Then the material is stripped from the mill a strip form. The strip form is fed by means of conveyor belt into compounder which may be an extruder. The compounder serves to clean and form the material for packaging. The material can be packaged and boxed through an automated cut weigh and packaging system.

The feed system and method of the invention can be used in conjunction with a process to compound a silicone rubber into a base for sealing compounds with additives such as pigments dosed to the rubber in appropriate quantities and mixed in large mixers or extruders. illustrates an exemplary process wherein a filler such as fumed silica is continuously treated and compounded with a silicone polymer such as a vinyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane.

The following Example is illustrative and should not be construed as a limitation on the scope of the claims.

This EXAMPLE is a combined description of press MEA experiments at Schwerdtel US headquarters New Jersey ProSys Corporation Missouri and at GE Silicones Waterford N.Y. Experiments on the shaftless screw conveyor were conducted at GE Silicones Waterford using Martin Sprocket equipment.

A viscous material feed system as schematically illustrated in the drawings included a Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press mounted to Vishay BLH floor scale that measured material flow according to loss of weight. The Schwerdtel S 6F press included a hydraulic pressure driven cylinder and platen that drives a platen into the 55 gallon drum.

The feed system included a feed tube to receive material expressed from a drum by the press and a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system that metered material from the feed tube to a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor according to loss of weight sensed by the scale. The screw conveyor interfaced to a chute. The chute permitted material to fall via gravity directly to a Banbury mixer. Material remaining in the chute was cleared by a pneumatic pusher prior to each mix GE design and lubrication . The system was controlled by operators at two 2 QuickPanel LM90 touch screens.

In operation an operator first entered set points into a system controller. One set point represented a target batch of silicone gum to be charged to a Banbury mixer which was part of a silicone gum compounding system. A pallet of four 4 fifty five 55 gallon drums of polymer Viscosity Range 150 000 to 900 000 Poise was placed on a drum carousel. The 55 gallon straight sided steel drums were delivered by the carousel and one drum was loaded into the Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press using an Easy Lift Equipment Drum Hauler unit. The Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press was controlled by a GE Fanuc 90 30 PLC. Material was displaced from the drum to the feed tube by the hydraulic Schwerdtel gum press.

The operator pressed a START OR RESTRT BATCH button of the controller to commence operation. The press doors were secured by hydraulically driven fasteners. Then as the screw conveyor started turning the hydraulically driven press platen commenced traveling down into the drum. As platen traversed the drum drum contents were squeezed upward into the feed tube. As the platen completed traversing the drum axis all material was forced upward into the feed tube. As material exited the feed tube a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system diced the material into pieces that then fell into a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor to charge to a Banbury mixer.

A batch of material flow from conveyor to the Banbury mixer was measured by loss of weight detected by the Vishay BLH bad cells. A combined weight of presses feed tubes cutting mechanisms and material containing drums was registered by the control system as a first weight. The control system monitored a charged weight of silicone gum to the Banbury by registering progressing weight as silicone gum was pressed from the drums and expelled through the feed tubes and cutting systems. The control system displayed a differential between the first weight and registered progressive weights that represented a charged silicone gum weight. As the charged silicone gum weight was within 15 pounds of the set point the

A system operator observed the differential weight and terminated the batch operation when the differential weight registered within a 2 pound range of the set point the pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system rate was increased to dice smaller aliquots of exiting material. The batch feed operation was terminated by the operator when the control system registered a charged silicone gum weight with 2 pounds of the set point.

The EXAMPLE illustrates control of material charge to a compounding system according to a feed system that is secured by fasteners according to the invention.

The invention includes changes and alterations that fall within the purview of the following claims. The foregoing examples are merely illustrative of the invention serving to illustrate only some of the features of the present invention. For example the invention includes a controller with a set of instructions to refer to a look up data base to determine a set point for a material to be charged to a compounding system sensing an initial combined weight of a material extracting apparatus and a container with material signaling commencement of the material extracting apparatus operation to evacuate the material from the container sensing a progressing combined weight of the material extracting apparatus and the container with material calculating a charged material weight according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight and terminating the material extracting apparatus operation when a calculated charged material weight is within a specified range of the set point.

The appended claims are intended to claim the invention as broadly as it has been conceived and the examples herein presented are illustrative of selected embodiments from a manifold of ail possible embodiments. Accordingly it is Applicants intention that the appended claims are not to be limited by the choice of examples utilized to illustrate features of the present invention.

As used in the claims the word comprises and its grammatical variants logically also subtend and include phrases of varying and differing extent such as for example but not limited thereto consisting essentially of and consisting of. 

Where necessary ranges have been supplied those ranges are inclusive of all sub ranges there between. Such ranges may be viewed as a Markush group or groups consisting of differing pairwise numerical limitations which group or groups is or are fully defined by its lower and upper bounds increasing in a regular fashion numerically from lower bounds to upper bounds. It is to be expected that variations in these ranges will suggest themselves to a practitioner having ordinary skill in the art and where not already dedicated to the public those variations should where possible be construed to be covered by the appended claims.

It is also anticipated that advances in science and technology will make equivalents and substitutions possible that are not now contemplated by reason of the imprecision of language and these variations should also be construed where possible to be covered by the appended claims.

All United States patents and patent applications referenced herein are herewith and hereby specifically incorporated by reference in their entirety as though set forth in full.

