---

title: System and method of controlling access to the internet
abstract: Certain embodiments provide for systems and methods of monitoring data sent from a requested device to a requesting device and removing certain portions of the data such as malicious or otherwise objectionable content. Objectionable content may include, for example, potentially executable web content. In certain embodiments, the systems and methods remove uniform resource locator (URL) links from the intercepted data which point to web pages having malicious or otherwise objectionable content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08015174&OS=08015174&RS=08015174
owner: Websense, Inc.
number: 08015174
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070228
---
This application relates to controlling access to the Internet by monitoring data received in response to a data request to the Internet. More particularly the application relates to systems and methods for monitoring results to user requests for content or information.

It is estimated that 80 percent of website visits are initiated through search engines. As a result website pages that appear in a list of returned search results or hyperlinks tend to receive significant inbound traffic through the search engine. The higher a website is on the list of returned hyperlinks the more likely the user will select that hyperlink. Unfortunately techniques such as Google bombing or Spamdexing allow website operators to deliberately modify HTML pages associated with their websites so as to increase the chance that their pages are placed higher on the list of search engine results or to influence the category to which their pages are assigned in a misleading or dishonest manner. Thus operators of websites having undesirable or malicious content often employ such tactics to generate traffic to their websites.

In addition as the use of the Internet evolves more and more content is delivered to users from disparate and sometimes unknown sources. For example the desire on the part of users for quicker and easier access to frequently updated content has led to the development of technologies such as web feeds which serve frequently updated content. In one common scenario of using web feeds a content provider publishes a web feed link on their site which allows an aggregator program also called a feed reader or a news reader to register to receive updated content. The aggregator is configured to periodically ask each server in its feed list if they have new content. For each of the servers having new content the aggregator either makes a note of the new content or downloads the content. Although various types of content may be delivered by web feeds typically HTML pages or URL links to web pages are delivered. As with the search engine results discussed above operators of websites having undesirable or malicious content may utilize misleading techniques with the purpose of having their malicious content included in the web feeds.

The system method and devices of the present invention each have several aspects no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes. Without limiting the scope of this invention several of its features will now be discussed briefly.

In one embodiment a method of monitoring data sent from a requested device to a requesting device is provided. The method includes identifying an outgoing request from the requesting device and intercepting content sent from the requested device in response to the outgoing request. At least a portion of the intercepted content is compared to a database. The method further includes modifying the content by removing at least some of the content based at least in part on a classification and presence of the content in the database and sending the modified content to the requesting device.

In another embodiment a system for monitoring content sent from a first device to a second device in response to a request by the second device for data from the first device is provided. The system includes a gateway server module configured to intercept the content sent from the first device to the second device and determine a category for the content based at least partially on a comparison of the intercepted content with data in a categorized URL content database. The system further includes a policy module including instructions for modifying content based on the category of the content and a content filtering module configured to modify at least some of the content based at least in part on the instructions.

In yet another embodiment a method of controlling access to data requested from the Internet for display at a workstation is provided. The method includes sending a network request for information and receiving a plurality of URLs in response to the network request at a gateway server module. The method further includes comparing the plurality of URLs to a database of categorized URLs and modifying at least one of the plurality of URLs based at least in part on the comparison. The modified plurality of URLs are forwarded to the workstation.

In still another embodiment a system for monitoring data sent from a requested device to a requesting device is provided. The system includes means for identifying an outgoing request from the requesting device to the requested device. The system further includes means for intercepting content sent from the requested device in response to the outgoing request and means for comparing at least a portion of the content to data in a database. The system further includes means for modifying the content by removing at least some of the content based at least in part on a classification and presence of the content in the database and means for sending the modified content to the requesting device.

Certain embodiments provide for systems and methods of monitoring data sent from a requested device to a requesting device and removing or identifying certain portions of the returned data that may be malicious or otherwise contain objectionable content such as for example potentially executable web content. The systems and methods may further remove uniform resource locator URL links from the returned data which link to web pages having malicious or otherwise objectionable content.

As used herein URL refers to a network or Internet address. A URL may consist of an access protocol e.g. http a domain name e.g. www.google.com and in some cases a path to a file or resource residing on the server indicated by the domain name. A URL link is a portion of a web page or some other network resource that may be used to access a URL. A example of a URL link is an HREF tag in HTML. As used herein objectionable content may include any data which an organization wishes to prevent users from accessing over a network. An organization may refer to any entity that manages a local computer network having users who access the Internet. Potentially executable web content generally refers to any type of content that includes instructions that are executed by a web browser or web client computer. Potentially executable web content may include for example applets executable code embedded in HTML or other hypertext documents including script languages such as JavaScript or VBScript executable code embedded in other documents such as Microsoft Word macros or stylesheets. Potentially executable web content may also refer to documents that execute code in another location such as another web page another computer or on the web browser computer itself. For example a HTML web page that includes an OBJECT element and thus can cause execution of ActiveX or other executable components may generally be considered potentially executable web content regardless of the location of the executable components.

Malicious content may refer to content that is not executable but which is calculated to exploit a vulnerability on a client computer. However potentially executable web content may also be malicious content. For example image files have been used to exploit vulnerabilities in certain operating systems when those images are processed for display. Moreover malicious web content may also refer to interactive content such as phishing schemes in which a HTML form or other web content is designed to appear to be provided by another typically trusted web site such as a bank in order to deceive the user into providing credentials or other sensitive information to an unauthorized party.

Each of the workstations may be in electrical communication with a gateway server module . The gateway server module may reside at the edge of the network so that traffic sent to and from the Internet may pass through it on its way into or out of the network . The gateway server module may take the form of a software module that is installed on a server that stands as a gateway to a wider area network than the network to which the workstations are directly attached. Also connected to the Internet is a database management module . The database management module also may be a software module or one or more hardware appliances which resides on one or more computing devices. The database management module may reside on a machine that includes some sort of network connecting hardware such as a network interface card which allows the database management module to send and receive data and information to and from the Internet .

One or more search engines are connected to the Internet . The search engine is typically a web site which receives user requests for information and websites which are relevant to the parameters of the submitted user requests. Well known examples of search engines are Google Yahoo and Ask.com.

One or more syndicated websites are connected to the Internet . The syndicated website offers a web feed of content from the website. Typically the content from the syndicated website is accessed by web feed readers installed on client workstations .

Referring now to a more detailed view of the workstation is presented. The workstation may include a workstation module . The workstation module may take the form of software installed to run on the operating system of the workstation . Alternatively the workstation module could be an application running on another machine that is launched remotely by the workstation .

The workstation module may include various components. The workstation module may include a local content inventory module which may store some or all of the network content received by the workstation . In some embodiments the local content inventory module may periodically inventory all content received from the network and the Internet . The inventoried data may be uploaded to the gateway server module for comparison to data stored in the categorized URL content database . The local content inventory module may also be configured to determine whether new content is being introduced to the workstation by comparison to the inventoried local content .

The workstation module also may include one or more upload download modules and one or more network request modules . The upload download modules may be used to send and receive data from the network through the gateway server module and to the Internet . The network request module may receive a data request from either a user or some system process and send the request via the gateway server module to retrieve the file and or content associated with the request. The request may be a search engine request made to the search engine . In response to the search the search engine may return one website or a list of websites and URL links leading to those websites based on the search parameters. The request may also be a content request made to the syndicated website . In response to the request the syndicated website may return one URL link or a list of URL links to the requested content. For ease of explanation the term network request is used to include user requests for content via the search engine or requests sent via a web feed reader to the syndicated website . The system of monitors and or modifies the data returned in response to the network request to inhibit objectionable or malicious content from being available to the user.

Typically the functions of each of the upload download modules and the network request modules may be performed by software applications such as web browsers with Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Opera Safari being examples of browsing software well known in the art. These functions may also be performed by other types of software such as web feed readers instant messaging programs peer to peer file sharing applications digital media player application e.g. iTunes RealPlayer Quicktime or some other applications.

Alternatively the functions of the modules may be divided among different software applications. For example an FTP application may perform the functions of the upload download module while a web browser performs the functions of sending requests to the search engine. A web feed reader application may send a request for content to the syndicated website . Other types of software may also perform the functions of the upload download module . Although these types of software are generally not desirable on a workstation software such as Spyware or Trojan Horses may make requests to send and receive data from the Internet.

The workstation module may be in communication with the gateway server module . The gateway server module may be used to analyze incoming and outgoing web traffic and to make various determinations about the impact the traffic may have on the workstations . Referring now to an example of the gateway server module is provided. The gateway server module is in two way communication with the workstation . It may receive file uploads and downloads and network requests from the workstation module . The gateway server module is also in two way communication with the Internet . Thus requests originating within the workstations of the network may be required to pass through the gateway server module as they proceed to the Internet. In some embodiments the gateway server module may be integrated with some firewall hardware or software that protects the network from unauthorized intrusions from the Internet . In other embodiments the gateway server module may be a standalone hardware appliance or even a software module installed on a separate gateway server residing at the network gateway to the Internet .

As discussed above the gateway server module may receive network requests and upload download data from the workstation by way of the workstation module . The gateway server module may include various components that perform various functions based on the data received.

One feature included in the gateway server module is a categorized URL database . The URL database may be used to store information about URLs including data that is associated with the URLs. The categorized URL database may be a relational database or it may be stored in some other form such as a flat file an object oriented database and may be accessed via an application programming interface API or some database management software DBMS . The URL database may generally be used to help determine whether data returned in response to a network request will be permitted to be completed. In one embodiment the URLs stored in the URL database are categorized.

The gateway server module may also include a policy module . The policy module may be used to implement network policies regarding how certain content will be handled by the gateway server module or by a firewall or some other security software installed within the network . In one embodiment the policy module may be configured to provide the system guidance on how to handle a returned list of URLs in response to a network request where at least some of the returned URLs are categorized. For example the gateway server module may be configured to edit or identify returned URLs that are categorized as being Malicious or Spyware. In other embodiments the policy module may be used to determine how to handle returned URLs that have not been categorized. In one embodiment the system may be configured to block all returned URLs that are not in the categorized URL database . The policy module may also be configured to allow certain uncategorized URLs based on the user making the request or the time at which the request is made. This allows the system to avoid having a one size fits all configuration when such as configuration would not meet the business needs of the organization running the gateway server module .

The gateway server module may also include a content filtering module . The content filtering module may work in conjunction with the policy module and the categorized URL content database to filter portions of search results returned in response to a network request. In one embodiment the content filtering module may be configured to remove URL links and other content from a list of URLs returned in response to a user query sent to an Internet search engine . By way of example and not of limitation the content filtering module may be configured to recognize an outgoing search engine query. A page returned by the search engine to the client workstation may be intercepted by the gateway server module and analyzed by the content filtering module . The content filtering module may be configured to parse the returned page and identify URL links in the returned search results and embedded items of content such as images or active content.

Each identified URL link or item of content may be compared to the data in the URL content database to determine if the URL link has already been categorized. If it has been categorized the policy module is consulted for instructions on how to handle the content. For example the policy module may instruct the content filtering module to remove URL links that lead to web pages that are categorized as being Malicious or Spyware. In addition the content filtering module may also be configured to remove objectionable content from the returned search engine results based on the presence and categorization of the content in the URL content database . Further details of this process will be provided below in connection with .

The gateway server module may include a collection module . The collection module may be a software program routine or process that is used to collect data about URLs. In one embodiment when an internet request is received from the network request module for content from the syndicated website the collection module may be configured to visit the website associated with the syndicated website and download data to the gateway server module for analysis by components of the gateway server module . The downloaded data may also be sent via the Internet for delivery to the database management module as will be discussed in further detail below .

In some embodiments the gateway server module may also include a logging database . The logging database may perform various functions. For example it may store records of certain types of occurrences within the network . In one embodiment the logging database may be configured to record each event in which an uncategorized URL is requested by a workstation . In some embodiments the logging database may also be configured to record events in which search engine results include URL links to uncategorized URL In some embodiments the logging database may also be configured to record the frequency with which a particular uncategorized URL is returned in response to network requests. This information may be useful in determining whether an uncategorized URL should be of particular importance or priority and should be categorized by the database management module ahead of earlier received data. In some embodiments uncategorized URLs may be stored separately in an uncategorized URL database .

For example some spyware may be written to request data from a particular URL. If many workstations within the network are infected with the spyware repeated requests to a particular URL may provide an indication that some anomaly is present within the network Alternatively if a particular URL link is continuously returned with search results requested from the search engine it may provide an indication that the search engine has been compromised in some way and that the returned results may include harmful data. The logging database may also be configured to record requests of categorized URL data. In some embodiments categorizing requests of categorized URLs may be helpful in determining whether a particular URL has been mischaracterized.

Referring now to an example of the logging database is discussed. The logging database includes four columns of data. The first column No. Requests is indicative of the number of times a particular URL has been returned in response to a network request within the network . The second column URL records the particular URL string that is being logged in the logging database . Thus when a URL is sent to the logging database the database may first be searched to determine whether the URL string is already in it. If not then the URL string may be added to the database. In some embodiments the collection module may be configured to visit the requested URL and gather data about the URL. The collection module may retrieve the page source of the requested URL and scan it for certain keywords that may indicate a type of content. For example if the page source includes javascript then the page may be identified as having JavaScript. While such content is not inherently dangerous a web page with JavaScript may have a greater chance of including malicious content designed to exploit how a browser application handles JavaScript function calls. In some embodiments this data may be stored in the logging database in JavaScript column . The logging database may also receive similar information from pages that include Active X content and store that content within Active X column . In other embodiments other types of content may be detected and stored for java applets VB Script and the like.

Referring again to the gateway server module may further include an administrative interface module or admin module. The admin module may be used to allow network administrators or other technical personnel within an organization to configure various features of the gateway server module . In certain embodiments the admin module allows the network administrator or some other network management type to configure the policy module .

Referring now to an example of a URL access policy database is provided. The URL access policy database may be used by the policy module to implement policies for accessing web based content by workstations within the network . In the embodiment shown the URL access policy database includes a table with four columns. The first column is a user column . The User column includes data about the users that are subject to the policy defined in a given row of the table. The next column Category lists the category of content to which the policy defined by that row is applicable. The third column Always Block represents the behavior or policy that is implemented by the system when the user and category of requested content match the user and category as defined in that particular row. In one embodiment the Always Block field may be a Boolean type field in which the data may be set to either true or false. Thus in the first row shown in the data table the policy module is configured to always block requests for malicious content by user asmith. 

As noted above the policy module may also be configured to implement policies based on different times. In the embodiment provided in the fourth column Allowed Times provides this functionality. The second row of data provides an example of how time policies are implemented. The user is set to bnguyen and the category is gambling. The policy is not configured to always block gambling content for bnguyen as indicated by the field being left blank. However the time during which these network requests are permitted is limited to 6 PM to 8 AM. Thus adopting these types of policies allows network administrators to provide a certain degree of flexibility to workstations and users but to do so in a way that network traffic is not compromised during typical working hours.

Referring now to the table of uncategorized URLs is provided described earlier in connection with . This table may be populated by network requests from the workstation which request a URL or a list of URLs that are not present in the categorized URL table . For example the websites identified by a web feed reader as having content requested by the user and that are not categorized may be added to the table of uncategorized URLs . In addition the table may also include uncategorized URLs which were listed in pages returned by search engine in response to search engine requests. As will be described in greater detail below the gateway server module may be configured to query the categorized URL database to determine whether a URL listed in the page returned by the search engine should be blocked or removed from the page content. If the URL is in the categorized database the policy module may determine whether to remove the URL listing from the returned webpage. If the listed URL is not found in the categorized URL database however it may be added to the list of uncategorized URLs so that it may be sent to the database management module via the Internet and later analyzed and categorized and downloaded into the database of categorized URLs .

In one embodiment the database management module may include an upload download module . The upload download module may be a software or hardware component that allows the database management module to send and receive data from the Internet to any number of locations and may or may not operate in a substantially similar manner as the upload download module on the gateway server module . In one embodiment the upload download module is configured to send newly categorized URLs to gateway server modules on the Internet for addition to their local URL databases .

The database management module may also include a database management module URL content database . The database management module URL content database may take the form of a data warehouse which stores URL strings and information about URLs that have been collected by a collection system which will be described in further detail below. The database management module URL content database may be a relational database that is indexed to provide quick and effective searches for data. In certain embodiments the URL content database may be a data warehousing application which spans numerous physical hardware components and storage media. The URL content database may include data such as URL strings the content associated with those strings information about how the content was gathered e.g. by a honey client by a customer submission etc. and possibly the date in which the URL was written into the URL content database .

The database management module may further include a training system . The training system may be a software hardware module which is used to define properties and definitions that may be used to categorize web based content. The database management module may further provide a scoring classification system which utilizes the definitions and properties created by the training system to provide a score or classification e.g. a categorization to web content so that the categorization may be delivered via the upload download module to gateway server modules .

With reference now to a more detailed view of the collection system is provided. The collection system may include a database management collection module which is coupled either directly or indirectly to a data mining module . The database management collection module may be used by the database management module to collect data for the URL content database about URLs that have not been categorized. The database management collection module may also be used to collect URLs for additional analysis by other system components. The database management collection module may be associated with one or more collection sources from which it may collect data about URLs. Collection sources may take various forms. In some embodiments the collection sources may include active and passive honeypots and honey clients data analysis of logging databases stored on the gateway server module to identify applications URLs and protocols for collection. The collection sources may also be webcrawling applications that search the Internet for particular keywords or search phrases within page content. The collection sources may also include URLs and IP addresses data mined from a DNS database to identify domains that are associated with known malicious IP addresses. In some embodiments URLs for categorization may be collected by receiving malicious code and malicious URL samples from other organizations who share this information. In yet other embodiments URLs may be collected via e mail modules configured to receive tips from the public at large much in the way that criminals are identified through criminal tip hotlines.

Referring now to a more detailed view of the database management collection module is provided. The database management collection module may include various subcomponents that allow it to effectively utilize each of the collection sources described above. The database management collection module may include a search phrase data module and an expression data module . The search phrase data module collects and provides search phrases that may be relevant to identifying inappropriate content. The expression data module may include various types of expressions such as regular expressions operands or some other expression. The search phrase data module and the expression data module each may include updatable record sets that may be used to define the search parameters for the web crawling collection source . The database management collection module may also include a priority module . The priority module may take the form of a software process running within the collection system or it may run as a separate process. The priority module may be used to prioritize the data collected by the database management collection module in order to have more potentially dangerous or suspect URLs or data receive close inspection prior to the likely harmless URLs. In one embodiment the priority module may assign priority based on the collection source from which the URL is received. For example if a URL is received from a customer report it may be designated with a higher priority. Similarly if the URL is received from a web crawler accessing a domain or IP address or subnet known to host malicious content in the past the URL may receive a high priority. Similarly a potentially dangerous website identified by a honey client discussed in further detail below may also receive a high priority. The database management collection module may also include a data selection module which may work with the priority module to determine whether identified URLs should be tagged as candidate URLs for categorization. In one embodiment the data selection URL may provide a user interface for receiving search parameters to further refine the prioritized data by searching for data based on priority and content.

As indicated above the collection module may also include a data download module . The data download module may be configured to identify URLs to visit and to download data and content from the visited URLs. The data download module may work in conjunction with various subsystems in the database management collection module to retrieve data for the URL content database . One such subsystem is the webcrawler module . The webcrawler module may be a software application configured to access websites on the Internet by accessing web pages and following hyperlinks that are included in those pages. The webcrawler module may be configured with several concurrent processes that allow the module to simultaneously crawl many websites and report the visited URLs back to the database management module URL content database as will be discussed in further detail below. The database management collection module may also include a honey client module . The honey client module is a software process configured to mimic the behavior of a web browser to visit websites in such a manner that is inviting to malicious code stored within the visited pages. The honey client module may visit the web sites and track the behavior of the websites and download the content back to the URL content database for further analysis.

The database management collection module may also include a third party supplier module which is configured to receive URLs and associated content from third parties. For example the third party module may be configured to provide a website which may be accessed by the general public. The module may be configured to receive an input URL string which may then be entered into the URL content database . In some embodiments the third party module may also be configured to receive e mails from private or public mailing lists and to identify any URL data embedded within the e mails for storage in the URL content database .

The database management collection module may also include a gateway server access module . The gateway server access module is a software component or program that may be configured to regularly access the logging database on the gateway server module to download upload all of the newly uncategorized web content identified by the logging database .

Referring back to the collection system may also include a data mining module . The data mining module may be used to obtain additional data about URLs stored in the database management module s URL content database . In many instances the information supplied by the collection sources to the database management collection module and URL content database is limited to nothing more than a URL string. Thus in order for the system to effectively categorize the content within that URL more data may be necessary. For example the actual page content may need to be examined in order to determine whether there is dangerous content embedded within the URL. The data mining module is used to collect this additional necessary data about the URLs and will be discussed in further detail below.

As previously discussed certain embodiments of the invention provide for the use of a content filtering module to remove unwanted content from pages returned to a client workstation in response to a user request. In one particular embodiment search engine results may be intercepted by the gateway server module and filtered to remove prior to presentation to the user undesired content such as URL links which point to web pages having objectionable content from the returned pages. provide an illustration of how the various components of the gateway server module may be configured to intercept filter and or modify objectionable content returned in search engine query results.

Referring now to an example of an entry form for a search engine is provided. The entry form includes a text box into which a user may enter search parameters . In the example provided the search parameters include the words free screen savers. The search entry form may also include a search type selection . In the example provided the search type selection includes various user selectable options such as Web Images Video News Maps etc. As shown in the option for Web is selected indicating that the search will look for web pages to return to the user. The entry form may also include a submission element . The submission element allows the user to submit their search to the search engine .

When a user submits a search request to the search engine the search engine typically searches its databases and indexes to determine the web pages or other items which are relevant to the submitted search. The results are returned to the user in a web page which displays data about the relevant pages and URL links which allow the user to access the identified pages. As noted above in connection with the gateway server module may be configured to intercept the returned search engine results and analyze their content.

With reference to a chart provides an example of a category breakdown of returned search results. The chart includes a header area . The header area may include information related to the data returned to the client computer which was intercepted by the gateway server module . In the example provided the header includes information describing the URL of the intercepted page. The header also includes a listing of the number of URLs analyzed by the gateway server module and the time taken for the analysis. In embodiments where the intercepted data includes search engine results the information in the header may also include the search string submitted to the search engine .

The chart may also include one or more columns including information about the specific URLs intercepted by the gateway server module . In the example provided in the breakdown of the intercepted content includes a list of the frequencies of the categories for the intercepted URLs. A first column includes a description of the category. A second column includes the number of links found in the intercepted content which are in the category. A third column may include the percentage share of the links in each category.

Referring now to a link analysis chart provides more detailed information about each of the URL links intercepted by the gateway server module and analyzed by the content filtering module . The link analysis chart may include several columns which list information about each intercepted item. A first column may include the item type such as a href for URL links img src for embedded image files and the like. The chart may also include a second column in which each analyzed URL is listed. The chart may further include a third column which specifies the action taken with respect to each data item such as Observe Allow or Block. The link analysis chart may also include a fourth column for each item which lists the category of the URL in the link along with a fifth column which may include a numeric code representative of the category in the fourth column .

The modified page also includes additional URL links which have been removed or not displayed by the gateway server module . In the embodiment shown the content of the URL links has been replaced by content blocking notifications which provide notification to the user that the page content has been modified to remove objectionable content. In some embodiments the notification may include text indicating the reason why the content was removed. For example the notification may indicate that the URL link would access a page categorized as adult content in the URL content database and that the policy module has been configured to block such content. In other embodiments the modified page may not provide an indication that the content has been modified. In such an embodiment the links and their associated data may be removed in a manner that is transparent to the user. This alternate implementation will be discussed in further detail below with respect to .

As discussed previously various types of objectionable content may be filtered from data sent in response to network requests. In yet another aspect of the invention embedded multimedia data may be removed from web pages prior to presentation to the requesting user. illustrate one embodiment in which the various components of the gateway server module block image data based on the policies defined in the policy module and categorization of the images in the URL content database .

Referring now to the modifications to the image search page performed by the content filtering module are visible to the user and shown as blocks of disallowed data. The page includes allowed images returned by the search engine and unobstructed by the gateway server module and also includes notifications of blocked images . In the illustrated embodiment the blocked images are replaced by a display element notifying the user that the image has been blocked.

As discussed above in some embodiments the gateway server module may intercept incoming web content and remove objectionable content without notifying the user. is a partial listing of the image files returned by the search engine in response to the search parameters outlined in with the system of not displaying the objectionable image files to the user. Unlike the embodiment shown in in which the blocked content was identified in the modified page in this embodiment the blocked images are removed from the page by the gateway server module without notifying the user. Thus the page delivered to the client computer by the gateway server module has been modified to remove the objectionable content unbeknownst to the user of the client computer . In previously described embodiments the intercepted content was the returned results from a search engine request. However as one of skill in the art would readily appreciate in other embodiments the functionality of the gateway server module may be applied to many different content types. In one such alternative embodiment the gateway server module may be configured to intercept web feed content sent in response to a request by web feed software stored on a client workstation .

Typically the web feed content will take the form of an XML file. As discussed previously a client computer may include software for accessing syndicated web content. provides an illustration of how content requested by web feed software may be filtered by the gateway server module . is an exemplary screen shot of the results returned by a search engine search for web feed content and includes a partial listing of the contents of the folder labeled unread news in a web feed interface . The web feed interface may include a navigation area an item list area and a preview area . The navigation area allows the user to navigate to content that has been downloaded into the web feed reader software. The item area may include a list of items which include URL links to content. Each item in the list may include a title which provides a summary of the content that is linked to the item. The preview area allows the user to preview the content found at the URL link which is associated with each content item.

If the intercepted data is found in the database then the process moves to decision block where the system then determines whether the intercepted data has been classified in the database . If the intercepted data has not been categorized yet process moves to block where the data is sent to the scoring classification system for classification and categorization. After the data is sent to the classification system the process then moves to block where the unclassified uncategorized content policy is applied to the intercepted data. Next the process moves to block where based on the unclassified uncategorized content policy the content is modified or possibly not modified in accordance with the policy.

Returning now to block if the intercepted data has already been categorized the process then moves to block where the policy module determines based on the category of the intercepted data whether to modify or block the intercepted content. Next at block the data is passed to the content filtering module which modifies the content by either removing or blocking the objectionable content as identified in accordance with the policies defined in the policy module . Once the content filtering module has completed its modifications of the intercepted page the modified page is then sent to the originating workstation at block .

It will be understood by those of skill in the art that numerous and various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the present invention. Therefore it should be clearly understood that the forms of the invention are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

