---

title: Muscle derived cells for the treatment of gastro-esophageal pathologies and methods of making and using the same
abstract: The present invention provides muscle-derived progenitor cells that show long-term survival following transplantation into body tissues and which can augment soft tissue following introduction (e.g. via injection, transplantation, or implantation) into a site of soft tissue. Also provided are methods of isolating muscle-derived progenitor cells, and methods of genetically modifying the cells for gene transfer therapy. The invention further provides methods of using compositions comprising muscle-derived progenitor cells for the augmentation and bulking of mammalian, including human, soft tissues in the treatment of various cosmetic or functional conditions, including malformation, injury, weakness, disease, or dysfunction. In particular, the present invention provides treatments and amelioration of symptoms for gastro-esophageal pathologies like gastro-esophageal reflux.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09121009&OS=09121009&RS=09121009
owner: University of Pittsburgh—Of the Commonweath System of Higher Education
number: 09121009
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071218
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 870 516 filed Dec. 18 2006 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DK055387 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to muscle derived progenitor cells MDC and compositions of MDCs and their use in the augmentation of body tissues particularly soft tissue like gastric and esophageal tissue. In particular the present invention relates to muscle derived progenitor cells that show long term survival following introduction into soft tissues methods of isolating MDCs and methods of using MDC containing compositions for the augmentation of human or animal soft tissues including gastric and esophageal tissue. The invention also relates to novel uses of muscle derived progenitor cells for the treatment of functional conditions such as gastro esophageal reflux disease.

Augmentation of soft tissue using synthetic materials such as silicone or polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE is well known in the art. U.S. Pat. No. 5 876 447 to Arnett discloses the use of silicone implants for facial plastic surgery. However such synthetic materials are foreign to the host tissue and cause an immunological response resulting in the encapsulation of the implant and scarring of the surrounding tissues. Thus the implant may produce additional functional or aesthetic problems.

Soft tissue augmentation using biopolymers such as collagen or hyaluronic acid has also been described. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 424 208 to Wallace et al. discloses methods of augmenting soft tissue utilizing collagen implant material. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 4 965 353 to della Valle et al. discloses esters of hyaluronic acid that can be used in cosmetic surgery. However these biopolymers are also foreign to the host tissue and cause an immunological response resulting in the reabsorption of the injected material. Biopolymers are therefore unable to provide long term tissue augmentation. Overall the use of biopolymers or synthetic materials has been wholly unsatisfactory for the purpose of augmenting soft tissue.

Soft tissue augmentation using cell based compositions has also been developed. U.S. Pat. No. 5 858 390 to Boss Jr. discloses the use of autologous dermal fibroblasts for the treatment of cosmetic and aesthetic skin defects. Although this treatment avoids the problems inherent in the implantation or injection of synthetic materials or biopolymers it results in other complications. Because fibroblasts produce collagen the cells can cause the stiffening and distortion of the tissues surrounding the implant site.

The use of autologous fat cells as an injectable bulking agent has also been described For review see K. Mak et al. 1994 Otolaryngol. Clin. North. Am. 27 211 22 American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Report on autologous fat transplantation by the ad hoc committee on new procedures 1987 Chicago American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery A. Chaichir et al. 1989 Plast. Reconstr. Surg. 84 921 935 R. A. Ersek 1991 Plast. Reconstr. Surg. 87 219 228 H. W. Horl et al. 1991 Ann. Plast. Surg. 26 248 258 A. Nguyen et al. 1990 Plast. Reconstr. Surg. 85 378 389 J. Sartynski et al. 1990 Otolaryngol. Head Neck Surg. 102 314 321. However the fat grafting procedure provides only temporary augmentation as injected fat is reabsorbed into the host. In addition fat grafting can result in nodule formation and tissue asymmetry.

Endoscopic delivery of bulking material has been tried for patient suffering from gastro esophageal reflux disease. However as the recent recall of ENTERYX by the FDA suggests there is a need for a safer treatment of this disease.

Myoblasts the precursors of muscle fibers are mononucleated muscle cells that fuse to form post mitotic multinucleated myotubes which can provide long term expression and delivery of bioactive proteins T. A. Partridge and K. E. Davies 1995 Brit. Med. Bulletin 51 123 137 J. Dhawan et al. 1992 Science 254 1509 12 A. D. Grinnell 1994 Myology Ed 2 A. G. Engel and C. F. Armstrong McGraw Hill Inc. 303 304 S. Jiao and J. A. Wolff 1992 Brain Research 575 143 7 H. Vandenburgh 1996 Human Gene Therapy 7 2195 2200 .

Cultured myoblasts contain a subpopulation of cells that show some of the self renewal properties of stem cells A. Baroffio et al. 1996 Differentiation 60 47 57 . Such cells fail to fuse to form myotubes and do not divide unless cultured separately A. Baroffio et al. supra . Studies of myoblast transplantation see below have shown that the majority of transplanted cells quickly die while a minority survive and mediate new muscle formation J. R. Beuchamp et al. 1999 J. Cell Biol. 144 1113 1122 . This minority of cells shows distinctive behavior including slow growth in tissue culture and rapid growth following transplantation suggesting that these cells may represent myoblast stem cells J. R. Beuchamp et al. supra .

Myoblasts have been used as vehicles for gene therapy in the treatment of various muscle and non muscle related disorders. For example transplantation of genetically modified or unmodified myoblasts has been used for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy E. Gussoni et al. 1992 Nature 356 435 8 J. Huard et al. 1992 Muscle Nerve 15 550 60 G. Karpati et al. 1993 Ann. Neurol. 34 8 17 J. P. Tremblay et al. 1993 Cell Transplantation 2 99 112 P. A. Moisset et al. 1998 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 247 94 9 P. A. Moisset et al. 1998 Gene Ther. 5 1340 46 . In addition myoblasts have been genetically engineered to produce proinsulin for the treatment of Type 1 diabetes L. Gros et al. 1999 Hum. Gen. Ther. 10 1207 17 Factor IX for the treatment of hemophilia B M. Roman et al. 1992 Somat. Cell. Mol. Genet. 18 247 58 S N. Yao et al. 1994 Gen. Ther. 1 99 107 J. M. Wang et al. 1997 Blood 90 1075 82 G. Hortelano et al. 1999 Hum. Gene Ther. 10 1281 8 adenosine deaminase for the treatment of adenosine deaminase deficiency syndrome C. M. Lynch et al. 1992 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 1138 42 erythropoietin for the treatment of chronic anemia E. Regulier et al. 1998 Gene Ther. 5 1014 22 B. Dalle et al. 1999 Gene Ther. 6 157 61 and human growth hormone for the treatment of growth retardation K. Anwer et al. 1998 Hum. Gen. Ther. 9 659 70 .

Myoblasts have also been used to treat muscle tissue damage or disease as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 141 to Law et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 538 722 to Blau et al. and application U.S. Ser. No. 09 302 896 filed Apr. 30 1999 by Chancellor et al. In addition myoblast transplantation has been employed for the repair of myocardial dysfunction C. E. Murry et al. 1996 J. Clin. Invest. 98 2512 23 B. Z. Atkins et al. 1999 Ann. Thorac. Surg. 67 124 129 B. Z. Atkins et al. 1999 J. Heart Lung Transplant. 18 1173 80 .

In spite of the above in most cases primary myoblast derived treatments have been associated with low survival rates of the cells following transplantation due to migration and or phagocytosis. To circumvent this problem U.S. Pat. No. 5 667 778 to Atala discloses the use of myoblasts suspended in a liquid polymer such as alginate. The polymer solution acts as a matrix to prevent the myoblasts from migrating and or undergoing phagocytosis after injection. However the polymer solution presents the same problems as the biopolymers discussed above. Furthermore the Atala patent is limited to uses of myoblasts in only muscle tissue but no other tissue.

Thus there is a need for other different soft tissue augmentation materials that are long lasting compatible with a wide range of host tissues and which cause minimal inflammation scarring and or stiffening of the tissues surrounding the implant site. Accordingly the muscle derived progenitor cell containing compositions of the present invention are provided as improved and novel materials for augmenting soft tissues. Further provided are methods of producing muscle derived progenitor cell compositions that show long term survival following transplantation and methods of utilizing MDCs and compositions containing MDCs to treat various aesthetic and or functional defects including for example dermatological conditions or injury and muscle weakness injury disease or dysfunction.

It is notable that prior attempts to use myoblasts for non muscle soft tissue augmentation were unsuccessful U.S. Pat. No. 5 667 778 to Atala . Therefore the findings disclosed herein are unexpected as they show that the muscle derived progenitor cells according to the present invention can be successfully transplanted into non muscle and muscle soft tissue including epithelial tissue and exhibit long term survival. As a result MDCs and compositions comprising MDCs can be used as a general augmentation material for muscle or non muscle soft tissue augmentation as well as for bone production. Moreover since the muscle derived progenitor cells and compositions of the present invention can be derived from autologous sources they carry a reduced risk of immunological complications in the host including the reabsorption of augmentation materials and the inflammation and or scarring of the tissues surrounding the implant site.

It is an object of the present invention to provide novel muscle derived progenitor cells MDCs and MDC compositions exhibiting long term survival following transplantation. The MDCs of this invention and compositions containing the MDCs comprise early progenitor muscle cells i.e. muscle derived stem cells that express progenitor cell markers such as desmin M cadherin MyoD myogenin CD34 and Bcl 2. In addition these early progenitor muscle cells express the Flk 1 Sca 1 MNF and c met cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit cell markers.

It is another object of the present invention to provide methods for isolating and enriching muscle derived progenitor cells from a starting muscle cell population. These methods result in the enrichment of MDCs that have long term survivability after transplantation or introduction into a site of soft tissue. The MDC population according to the present invention is particularly enriched with cells that express progenitor cell markers such as desmin M cadherin MyoD myogenin CD34 and Bcl 2. This MDC population also expresses the Flk 1 Sca 1 MNF and c met cell markers but does not express the CD45 or c Kit cell markers.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide methods of using MDCs and compositions comprising MDCs for the augmentation of muscle soft tissue or non muscle soft tissue including smooth muscle and various organ tissues without the need for polymer carriers or special culture media for transplantation. Such methods include the administration of MDC compositions by introduction into soft tissue for example by direct injection into tissue or by systemic distribution of the compositions. Preferably soft tissue includes non bone body tissues. More preferably soft tissue includes non striated muscle and non bone body tissues. Most preferably soft tissue includes non muscle non bone body tissues. As used herein augmentation refers to filling bulking supporting enlarging extending or increasing the size or mass of body tissue.

It is another object of the present invention to provide methods of augmenting soft tissue either muscle derived soft tissue or non muscle derived soft tissue following injury wounding surgeries traumas non traumas or other procedures that result in fissures openings depressions wounds and the like in the skin or in internal soft tissues or organs.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide MDC based treatments for gastroesophageal reflux symptoms and conditions. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising MDCs and compositions comprising MDCs may be used for the treatment of gastro esophageal pathologies. These pharmaceutical compositions comprise isolated MDCs. These MDCs may be subsequently expanded by cell culture after isolation. In one embodiment of the invention these MDCs are frozen prior to delivery to a subject in need of the pharmaceutical composition.

In one embodiment when the MDCs and compositions thereof are used to treat gastroesophageal reflux they are injected directly into the esophagus. Preferably they may be injected into the lower esophageal sphincter. In another embodiment MDCs and compositions thereof are used to improve at least one symptom of gastro esophageal reflux disease. These symptoms include heart burn asthma acid reflux persistent sore throat hoarseness chronic cough chest pain and feeling like there is a lump in the throat.

MDCs are isolated from a biopsy of skeletal muscle. In one embodiment the skeletal muscle from the biopsy may be stored for 1 6 days. In one aspect of this embodiment the skeletal muscle from the biopsy is stored at 4 C. The MDCs are then isolated using the pre plate or the single plate technique.

Using the pre plate technique a suspension of skeletal muscle cells from skeletal muscle tissue is plated in a first container to which fibroblast cells of the skeletal muscle cell suspension adhere. Non adherent cells are then re plated in a second container wherein the step of re plating is after about 15 to about 20 of cells have adhered to the first container. This replating step must be repeated at least once. The MDCs are thereby isolated and may be administered to the esophagus of the mammalian subject.

Using the single plate technique the cells are minced and digested using a collagenase dispase another enzyme or a combination of enzymes. After washing the enzyme from the cells the cells are cultured in a flask in culture medium for between about 30 and about 120 minutes. During this period of time the rapidly adhering cells stick to the walls of the flask or container while the slowly adhering cells or MDCs remain in suspension. The slowly adhering cells are transferred to a second flask or container and cultured therein for a period of 1 3 days. During this second period of time the slowly adhering cells or MDCs stick to the walls of the second flask or container.

In another embodiment of the invention these MDCs are expanded to any number of cells. In a preferred aspect of this embodiment the cells are expanded in new culture media for between about 10 and 20 days. More preferably the cells are expanded for 17 days.

The MDCs whether expanded or not expanded may be preserved in order to be transported or stored for a period of time before use. In one embodiment the MDCs are frozen. Preferably the MDCs are frozen at between about 20 and 90 C. More preferably the MDCs are frozen at about 80 C. These frozen MDCs are used as a pharmaceutical composition.

Additional objects and advantages afforded by the present invention will be apparent from the detailed description and exemplification hereinbelow.

The present invention provides MDCs comprised of early progenitor cells also termed muscle derived progenitor cells or muscle derived stem cells herein that show long term survival rates following transplantation into body tissues preferably soft tissues. To obtain the MDCs of this invention a muscle explant preferably skeletal muscle is obtained from an animal donor preferably from a mammal including rats dogs and humans. This explant serves as a structural and functional syncytium including rests of muscle precursor cells T. A. Partridge et al. 1978 Nature 73 306 8 B. H. Lipton et al. 1979 Science 205 12924 .

Cells isolated from primary muscle tissue contain mixture of fibroblasts myoblasts adipocytes hematopoietic and muscle derived progenitor cells. The progenitor cells of a muscle derived population can be enriched using differential adherence characteristics of primary muscle cells on collagen coated tissue flasks such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. Cells that are slow to adhere tend to be morphologically round express high levels of desmin and have the ability to fuse and differentiate into multinucleated myotubes U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. . A subpopulation of these cells was shown to respond to recombinant human bone morphogenic protein 2 rhBMP 2 in vitro by expressing increased levels of alkaline phosphatase parathyroid hormone dependent 3 5 cAMP and osteogenic lineage and myogenic lineages U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. T. Katagiri et al. 1994 J. Cell Biol. 127 1755 1766 .

In one embodiment of the invention a preplating procedure may be used to differentiate rapidly adhering cells from slowly adhering cells MDCs . In accordance with the present invention populations of rapidly adhering cells PP1 4 and slowly adhering round MDCs PP6 were isolated and enriched from skeletal muscle explants and tested for the expression of various markers using immunohistochemistry to determine the presence of pluripotent cells among the slowly adhering cells Example 1 patent application U.S. Ser. No. 09 302 896 of Chancellor et al. . The PP6 cells expressed myogenic markers including desmin MyoD and Myogenin. The PP6 cells also expressed c met and MNF two genes which are expressed at an early stage of myogenesis J. B. Miller et al. 1999 Curr. Top. Dev. Biol. 43 191 219 . The PP6 showed a lower percentage of cells expressing M cadherin a satellite cell specific marker A. Irintchev et al. 1994 Development Dynamics 199 326 337 but a higher percentage of cells expressing Bcl 2 a marker limited to cells in the early stages of myogenesis J. A. Dominov et al. 1998 J. Cell Biol. 142 537 544 . The PP6 cells also expressed CD34 a marker identified with human hematopoietic progenitor cells as well as stromal cell precursors in bone marrow R. G. Andrews et al. 1986 Blood 67 842 845 C. I. Civin et al. 1984 J. Immunol. 133 157 165 L. Fina et al 1990 Blood 75 2417 2426 P. J. Simmons et al. 1991 Blood 78 2848 2853 . The PP6 cells also expressed Flk 1 a mouse homologue of human KDR gene which was recently identified as a marker of hematopoietic cells with stem cell like characteristics B. L. Ziegler et al. 1999 Science 285 1553 1558 . Similarly the PP6 cells expressed Sca 1 a marker present in hematopoietic cells with stem cell like characteristics M. van de Rijn et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 4634 8 M. Osawa et al. 1996 J. Immunol. 156 3207 14 . However the PP6 cells did not express the CD45 or c Kit hematopoietic stem cell markers reviewed in L K. Ashman 1999 Int. J. Biochem. Cell. Biol. 31 1037 51 G. A. Koretzky 1993 FASEB J. 7 420 426 .

One embodiment of the present invention is the PP6 population of muscle derived progenitor cells having the characteristics described herein. These muscle derived progenitor cells express the desmin CD34 and Bcl 2 cell markers. In accordance with the present invention the PP6 cells are isolated by the techniques described herein Example 1 to obtain a population of muscle derived progenitor cells that have long term survivability following transplantation. The PP6 muscle derived progenitor cell population comprises a significant percentage of cells that express progenitor cell markers such as desmin CD34 and Bcl 2. In addition PP6 cells express the Flk 1 and Sca 1 cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit markers. Preferably greater than 95 of the PP6 cells express the desmin Sca 1 and Flk 1 markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit markers. It is preferred that the PP6 cells are utilized within about 1 day or about 24 hours after the last plating.

In a preferred embodiment the rapidly adhering cells and slowly adhering cells MDCs are separated from each other using a single plating technique. One such technique is described in Example 2. First cells are provided from a skeletal muscle biopsy. The biopsy need only contain about 100 mg of cells. Biopsies ranging in size from about 50 mg to about 500 mg are used in certain embodiments according to both the pre plating and single plating methods of the invention. Further biopsies of 50 100 110 120 130 140 150 200 250 300 400 and 500 mg may be used according to both the pre plating and single plating methods of the invention.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the tissue from the biopsy is then stored for 1 to 7 days. This storage is at a temperature from about room temperature to about 4 C. This waiting period causes the biopsied skeletal muscle tissue to undergo stress. While this stress is not necessary for the isolation of MDCs using this single plate technique it seems that using the wait period results in a greater yield of MDCs.

Tissue from the biopsies is minced and centrifuged. The pellet is resuspended and digested using a digestion enzyme. Enzymes that may be used include collagenase dispase or combinations of these enzymes. After digestion the enzyme is washed off of the cells. The cells are transferred to a flask in culture media for the isolation of the rapidly adhering cells. Many culture media may be used. Particularly preferred culture media include those that are designed for culture of endothelial cells including Cambrex Endothelial Growth Medium. This medium may be supplemented with other components including fetal bovine serum IGF 1 bFGF VEGF EGF hydrocortisone heparin and or ascorbic acid. Other media that may be used in the single plating technique include InCell M310F medium. This medium may be supplemented as described above or used unsupplemented.

The step for isolation of the rapidly adhering cells may require culture in flask for a period of time from about 30 to about 120 minutes. The rapidly adhering cells adhere to the flask in 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 or 120 minutes. After they adhere the slowly adhering cells are separated from the rapidly adhering cells from removing the culture media from the flask to which the rapidly adhering cells are attached to.

The culture medium removed from this flask is then transferred to a second flask. The cells may be centrifuged and resuspended in culture medium before being transferred to the second flask. The cells are cultured in this second flask for between 1 and 3 days. Preferably the cells are cultured for two days. During this period of time the slowly adhering cells MDCs adhere to the flask. After the MDCs have adhered the culture media is removed and new culture media is added so that the MDCs can be expanded in number. The MDCs may be expanded in number by culturing them for from about 10 to about 20 days. The MDCs may be expanded in number by culturing them for 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 days. Preferably the MDCs are subject to expansion culture for 17 days.

As an alternative to the pre plating and single plating methods the MDCs of the present invention can be isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS analysis using labeled antibodies against one or more of the cell surface markers expressed by the MDCs C. Webster et al. 1988 Exp. Cell. Res. 174 252 65 J. R. Blanton et al. 1999 Muscle Nerve 22 43 50 . For example FACS separation can be performed using labeled antibodies to directed to CD34 Flk 1 Sca 1 and or the other cell surface markers described herein to select a population of PP6 like cells that exhibit long term survivability when introduced into the host tissue. Also encompassed by the present invention is the use of one or more fluorescence detection labels for example fluorescein or rhodamine for antibody detection of different cell marker proteins.

Using any of the MDCs isolation methods described above MDCs that are to be transported or are not going to be used for a period of time may be preserved using methods known in the art. More specifically the isolated MDCs may be frozen to a temperature ranging from about 25 to about 90 C. Preferably the MDCs are frozen at about 80 C. on dry ice for delayed use or transport. The freezing may be done with any cryopreservation medium known in the art.

In one embodiment of the present invention the MDCs are isolated from a skeletal muscle source and introduced or transplanted into a muscle or non muscle soft tissue site of interest. Advantageously the MDCs of the present invention are isolated and enriched to contain a large number of progenitor cells showing long term survival following transplantation. In addition the muscle derived progenitor cells of this invention express a number of characteristic cell markers such desmin CD34 and Bcl 2. Furthermore the muscle derived progenitor cells of this invention express the Sca 1 and Flk 1 cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit cell markers see Example 1 .

MDCs and compositions comprising MDCs of the present invention can be used to repair treat or ameliorate various aesthetic or functional conditions e.g. defects through the augmentation of muscle or non muscle soft tissues. In particular such compositions can be used as soft tissue bulking agents for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux symptoms or conditions.

For MDC based treatments a skeletal muscle explant is preferably obtained from an autologous or heterologous human or animal source. An autologous animal or human source is more preferred. MDC compositions are then prepared and isolated as described herein. To introduce or transplant the MDCs and or compositions comprising the MDCs according to the present invention into a human or animal recipient a suspension of mononucleated muscle cells is prepared. Such suspensions contain concentrations of the muscle derived progenitor cells of the invention in a physiologically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent. For example suspensions of MDCs for administering to a subject can comprise 108 to 109 cells ml in a sterile solution of complete medium modified to contain the subject s serum as an alternative to fetal bovine serum. Alternatively MDC suspensions can be in serum free sterile solutions such as cryopreservation solutions Celox Laboratories St. Paul Minn. . The MDC suspensions can then be introduced e.g. via injection into one or more sites of the donor tissue.

The described cells can be administered as a pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable preparation or composition containing a physiologically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent and administered to the tissues of the recipient organism of interest including humans and non human animals. The MDC containing composition can be prepared by resuspending the cells in a suitable liquid or solution such as sterile physiological saline or other physiologically acceptable injectable aqueous liquids. The amounts of the components to be used in such compositions can be routinely determined by those having skill in the art.

The MDCs or compositions thereof can be administered by placement of the MDC suspensions onto absorbent or adherent material i.e. a collagen sponge matrix and insertion of the MDC containing material into or onto the site of interest. Alternatively the MDCs can be administered by parenteral routes of injection including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular and intrasternal. Other modes of administration include but are not limited to intranasal intrathecal intracutaneous percutaneous enteral and sublingual. In one embodiment of the present invention administration of the MDCs can be mediated by endoscopic surgery.

For injectable administration the composition is in sterile solution or suspension or can be resuspended in pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable aqueous or oleaginous vehicles which may contain preservatives stabilizers and material for rendering the solution or suspension isotonic with body fluids i.e. blood of the recipient. Non limiting examples of excipients suitable for use include water phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 0.15 M aqueous sodium chloride solution dextrose glycerol dilute ethanol and the like and mixtures thereof. Illustrative stabilizers are polyethylene glycol proteins saccharides amino acids inorganic acids and organic acids which may be used either on their own or as admixtures. The amounts or quantities as well as the routes of administration used are determined on an individual basis and correspond to the amounts used in similar types of applications or indications known to those of skill in the art.

To optimize transplant success the closest possible immunological match between donor and recipient is desired. If an autologous source is not available donor and recipient Class I and Class II histocompatibility antigens can be analyzed to determine the closest match available. This minimizes or eliminates immune rejection and reduces the need for immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy. If required immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy can be started before during and or after the transplant procedure. For example cyclosporin A or other immunosuppressive drugs can be administered to the transplant recipient. Immunological tolerance may also be induced prior to transplantation by alternative methods known in the art D. J. Watt et al. 1984 Clin. Exp. Immunol. 55 419 D. Faustman et al. 1991 Science 252 1701 .

Consistent with the present invention the MDCs are administered to the digestive system i.e. mouth tongue esophagus stomach liver pancreas gall bladder intestine anus etc. .

Conditions of the lumen In another embodiment the MDCs and compositions thereof according to the present invention have further utility as treatments for conditions of the lumen in an animal or mammal subject including humans. Specifically the muscle derived progenitor cells are used for completely or partially blocking enhancing enlarging sealing repairing bulking or filling various biological lumens or voids within the body. Lumens include without limitation intestine stomach and esophagus. Voids may include without limitation various tissue wounds i.e. loss of muscle and soft tissue bulk due to trauma destruction of soft tissue due to penetrating projectiles such as a stab wound or bullet wound loss of soft tissue from disease or tissue death due to surgical removal of the tissue lesions fissures diverticulae cysts fistulae and other undesirable or unwanted depressions or openings that may exist within the body of an animal or mammal including humans. For the treatment of conditions of the lumen the MDCs are prepared as disclosed herein and then administered e.g. via injection or intravenous delivery to the lumenal tissue to fill or repair the void. The number of MDCs introduced is modulated to repair large or small voids in a soft tissue environment as required.

Conditions of the sphincter The MDCs and compositions thereof according to the present invention can also be used for the treatment of a sphincter injury weakness disease or dysfunction in an animal or mammal including humans. In particular the MDCs are used to augment tissues of the esophageal anal and pyloric sphincter. Preferably the sphincter is the lower esophageal sphincter. More specifically the present invention provides soft tissue augmentation treatments for gastroesophageal reflux symptoms. For the treatment of sphincter defects the MDCs are prepared as described herein and then administered to the sphincter tissue e.g. via injection to provide additional bulk filler or support. The number of MDCs introduced is modulated to provide varying amounts of bulking material as required. For example about 1 to about 5 10MDCs are used to provide augmentation for an approximately 5 mm region of the gastroesophageal junction or an approximately 5 10 mm region of the anal sphincter see Example 3 . The cells can be engrafted so as to reside within the muscle wall and or muscularis mucosa of the treated sphincter region. As well in the treatment of a lower esophageal sphincter the cellular grafting can be effective to increase the pressure of the sphincter and or to reduce acid reflux into the esophagus e.g. as measured by the fraction of time that the affected lower esophagus exhibits a pH of less than about 4.

Muscle augmentation and contractility In yet another embodiment of the present invention the MDCs and compositions thereof are used for the treatment of muscle conditions in a human or animal subject. In particular the MDCs can be used to augment smooth muscles to treat weakness or dysfunction caused by injury disease inactivity or anoxia or surgery induced trauma.

For muscle augmentation or treatment of muscle related conditions the MDCs are prepared as described above and are administered e.g. via injection into muscle tissue to provide additional bulk filler or support. As is appreciated by the skilled practitioner the number of MDCs introduced is modulated to provide varying amounts of bulking material as needed or required.

In addition the MDCs and compositions thereof can be used to affect contractility in smooth muscle tissue such as gastrointestinal tissue and esophageal tissue as example. The present invention also embraces the use of MDCs of the invention in restoring muscle contraction and or ameliorating or overcoming smooth muscle contractility problems such decreased gastrointestinal motility including the esophagus stomach and intestine smooth muscle. A specific yet nonlimiting example of a condition that the MDCs of the invention can improve reduce or correct is gastroparesis i.e. poor motility and emptying of the stomach.

Enrichment and isolation of MDCs MDCs were prepared as described U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. . Muscle explants were obtained from the hind limbs of a number of sources namely from 3 week old mdx dystrophic mice C57BL 10ScSn mdx mdx Jackson Laboratories 4 6 week old normal female SD Sprague Dawley rats or SCID severe combined immunodeficiency mice. The muscle tissue from each of the animal sources was dissected to remove any bones and minced into a slurry. The slurry was then digested by 1 hour serial incubations with 0.2 type XI collagenase dispase grade II 240 unit and 0.1 trypsin at 37 C. The resulting cell suspension was passed through 18 20 and 22 gauge needles and centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 5 minutes. Subsequently cells were suspended in growth medium DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum 10 horse serum 0.5 chick embryo extract and 2 penicillin streptomycin . Cells were then preplated in collagen coated flasks U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. . After approximately 1 hour the supernatant was removed from the flask and re plated into a fresh collagen coated flask. The cells which adhered rapidly within this 1 hour incubation were mostly fibroblasts Z. Qu et al. supra U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. . The supernatant was removed and re plated after 30 40 of the cells had adhered to each flask. After approximately 5 6 serial platings the culture was enriched with small round cells designated as PP6 cells which were isolated from the starting cell population and used in further studies. The adherent cells isolated in the early platings were pooled together and designated as PP1 4 cells.

The mdx PP1 4 mdx PP6 normal PP6 and fibroblast cell populations were examined by immunohistochemical analysis for the expression of cell markers. The results of this analysis are shown in Table 1.

Mdx PP1 4 mdx PP6 normal PP6 and fibroblast cells were derived by preplating technique and examined by immunohistochemical analysis. indicates less than 2 of the cells showed expression indicates 5 50 of the cells showed expression indicates 40 80 of the cells showed expession indicates that 95 of the cells showed expression nor indicates normal cells na indicates that the immunohistochemical data is not available.

It is noted that both mdx and normal mice showed identical distribution of all of the cell markers tested in this assay. Thus the presence of the mdx mutation does not affect the cell marker expression of the isolated PP6 muscle cell derived population.

MDCs were grown in proliferation medium containing DMEM Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium with 10 FBS fetal bovine serum 10 HS horse serum 0.5 chick embryo extract and 1 penicillin streptomycin or fusion medium containing DMEM supplemented with 2 fetal bovine serum and 1 antibiotic solution. All media supplies were purchased through Gibco Laboratories Grand Island N.Y. .

Populations of rapidly and slowly adhering MDCs were isolated from skeletal muscle of a mammalian subject. The subject may be a human rat dog or other mammal. Biopsy size ranged from 42 to 247 mg.

Skeletal muscle biopsy tissue is immediately placed in cold hypothermic medium HypoThermosol BioLife supplemented with gentamicin sulfate 100 ng ml Roche and stored at 4 C. After 3 to 7 days biopsy tissue is removed from storage and production is initiated. Any connective or non muscle tissue is dissected from the biopsy sample. The remaining muscle tissue that is used for isolation is weighed. The tissue is minced in Hank s Balanced Salt Solution HBSS transferred to a conical tube and centrifuged 2 500 g 5 minutes . The pellet is then resuspended in a Digestion Enzyme solution Liberase Blendzyme 4 0.4 1.0 U mL Roche . 2 mL of Digestion Enzyme solution is used per 100 mg of biopsy tissue and is incubated for 30 minutes at 37 C. on a rotating plate. The sample is then centrifuged 2 500 g 5 minutes . The pellet is resuspended in culture medium and passed through a 70 m cell strainer. The culture media used for the procedures described in this Example was Cambrex Endothelial Growth Medium EGM 2 basal medium supplemented with the following components i. 10 v v fetal bovine serum and ii. Cambrex EGM 2 SingleQuot Kit which contains Insulin Growth Factor 1 IGF 1 Basic Fibroblast Growth Factor bFGF Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor VEGF Epidermal Growth Factor EGF Hydrocortisone Heparin and Ascorbic Acid. The filtered cell solution is then transferred to a T25 culture flask and incubated for 30 120 minutes at 37 C. in 5 CO. Cells that attach to this flask are the rapidly adhering cells .

After incubation the cell culture supernatant is removed from the T25 flask and placed into a 15 mL conical tube. The T25 culture flask is rinsed with 2 mL of warmed culture medium and transferred to the aforementioned 15 mL conical tube. The 15 mL conical tube is centrifuged 2 500 g 5 minutes . The pellet is resuspended in culture medium and transferred to a new T25 culture flask. The flask is incubated for 2 days at 37 C. in 5 CO cells that attach to this flask are the slowly adhering cells . After incubation the cell culture supernatant is aspirated and new culture medium is added to the flask. The flask is then returned to the incubator for expansion. Standard culture passaging is carried out from here on to maintain the cell confluency in the culture flask at less than 50 . Trypsin EDTA 0.25 Invitrogen is used to detach the adherent cells from the flask during passage. Typical expansion of the slowly adhering cells takes an average of 17 days starting from the day production is initiated to achieve an average total viable cell number of 37 million cells.

Once the desired cell number is achieved the cells are harvested from the flask using Trypsin EDTA and centrifuged 2 500 g 5 minutes . The pellet is resuspended in BSS P solution HBSS supplemented with human serum albumin 2 v v Sera Care Life and counted. The cell solution is then centrifuged again 2 500 g 5 minutes resuspended with Cryopreservation Medium CryoStor Biolife supplemented with human serum albumin 2 v v Sera Care Life Sciences to the desired cell concentration and packaged in the appropriate vial for cryogenic storage. The cryovial is placed into a freezing container and placed in the 80 C. freezer. Cells are administered by thawing the frozen cell suspension at room temperature with an equal volume of physiologic saline and injected directly without additional manipulation . The lineage characterization of the slowly adhering cell populations shows Myogenic 87.4 CD56 89.2 desmin Endothelial 0.0 CD31 Hematopoietic 0.3 CD45 and Fibroblast 6.8 CD90 CD56 .

Following disassociation of the skeletal muscle biopsy tissue two fractions of cells were collected based on their rapid or slow adhesion to the culture flasks. The cells were then expanded in culture with growth medium and then frozen in cryopreservation medium 3 10cells in 15 l in a 1.5 ml eppendorf tube. For the control group 15 l of cryopreservation medium alone was placed into the tube. These tubes were stored at 80 C. until injection. Immediately prior to injection a tube was removed from storage thawed at room temperature and resuspended with 15 l of 0.9 sodium chloride solution. The resulting 30 l solution was then drawn into a 0.5 cc insulin syringe with a 30 gauge needle. The investigator performing the surgery and injection was blinded to the contents of the tubes.

Cell count and viability was measured using a Guava flow cytometer and Viacount assay kit Guava . CD56 was measured by flow cytometry Guava using PE conjugated anti CD 56 antibody 1 50 BD Pharmingen and PE conjugated isotype control monoclonal antibody 1 50 BD Pharmingen . Desmin was measured by flow cytometry Guava on paraformaldehyde fixed cells BD Pharmingen using a monoclonal desmin antibody 1 100 Dako and an isotype control monoclonal antibody 1 200 BD Pharmingen . Fluorescent labeling was performed using a Cy3 conjugated anti mouse IgG antibody 1 250 Sigma . In between steps the cells were washed with permeabilization buffer BD Pharmingen . For creatine kinase CK assay 1 10cells were plated per well into a 12 well plate in differentiation inducing medium. Four to 6 days later the cells were harvested by trypsinization and centrifuged into a pellet. The cell lysis supernatant was assayed for CK activity using the CK Liqui UV kit Stanbio .

Sprague Dawley SD rats were prepared for surgery by anesthetizing with halothane using standard methods and washing the surgical site with Betadine solution. A midline abdomen incision was made to expose the gastroesophageal junction and anal sphincter. The soft tissue was injected with 10 l of a suspension of muscle derived progenitor cells prepared pursuant to the methods of Example 1 in HBSS 1 1.5 10cells using a Hamilton microsyringe. At day 3 post injection the area surrounding each injection site was excised prepared for histochemical analysis stained for galactosidase to determine the location and viability of the cells carrying the LacZ marker examined microscopically and photographed. Results of these experiments demonstrate that MDC compositions can be used as esophageal and anal sphincter bulking materials for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux or fecal incontinence symptoms or conditions.

Most patients with GERD who are being considered for surgery have low lower esophageal sphincter LES pressure. We hypothesized that auto transplantation of skeletal muscle derived cells MDC into the LES may offer the ideal bulking therapy. To test this we have performed experiments to test the potential of MDCs to survive and differentiate within the gastro intestinal smooth muscle in order to gain further knowledge on the biology of skeletal muscle transplantation in GI smooth muscle sphincters as well as to test the safety and feasibility of endoscopic injection of MDC in a large animal model.

Adult male Sprague Dawley SD rats and adult male Beagle dogs were used. Rat derived and dog derived MDC were isolated using a single plate technique similar to the technique described in Example 2. MDCs were labeled with DiI a lipophilic membrane stain that diffuses across the whole cell Invitrogen Molecular Probes before transplantation in order to be able to visualize the cells in the host tissue. Differentiation of grafted cells was assessed by immunofluorescence using specific antibodies to markers of the smooth muscle phenotype smooth muscle actin and of the skeletal muscle phenotype skeletal muscle myosin .

DiI labeled rat derived MDCs were injected bilaterally in the pyloric wall of rats using a 10 l Hamilton syringe and survival and differentiation was assessed 1 month post transplantation. Grafted cells were visualized based on DiI fluorescence and were found to be localized within the muscle wall and in the muscularis mucosa as shown in . Immunofluorescence analysis revealed weak expression of skeletal muscle myosin in grafted MDC and no expression of smooth muscle actin as shown in smooth muscle actin and C skeletal muscle myosin . MDC can survive and integrate into GI smooth muscle and they have potential for the treatment of a variety of conditions including GERD.

In the first of a series of ongoing experiments 4.0 10of labeled canine MDC were injected into the LES of a Beagle dog using a standard variceal sclerotherapy needle delivered through an endoscope. The dog was treated with daily cyclosporine and two weeks later pH monitoring repeated and the esophagus examined histologically. A significant reduction of acid reflux was observed with the fraction of time with pH

All patent applications patents texts and literature references cited in this specification are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety to more fully describe the state of the art to which the present invention pertains.

As various changes can be made in the above methods and compositions without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as described it is intended that all subject matter contained in the above description shown in the accompanying drawings or defined in the appended claims be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

