---

title: Methods and systems for managing electronic work instructions for manufacture of product
abstract: Methods and systems for interfacing computer modeled design and manufacture data from an Manufacturing Process Planning (MPP) system to a Manufacturing Execution System (MES) and allowing, via an integration server interface, electronic work instructions of the MPP system to be revised promptly and efficiently in mid-production manufacturing processes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738410&OS=08738410&RS=08738410
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08738410
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070531
---
This invention relates generally to computer systems and methods that facilitate product design and manufacturing. More specifically the invention relates to methods and systems for managing the integration of virtual design systems with physical manufacturing systems.

Computer systems and software for designing products are advantageous including Computer Aided Design CAD systems in which the physical structure of potential products may be defined and optimized Computer Aided Engineering CAE systems that simulate the physical behavior of the potential products and allow virtual product testing and performance evaluation and Computer Aided Manufacturing CAM systems for defining and optimizing manufacturing processes and operations for potential products. Using such computer systems potential products and their manufacture may be designed modeled and tested in a virtual on line environment. For example in an aircraft design context computer systems may be utilized to model the entire aircraft and its manufacture including all of its electrical or mechanical systems sub systems parts components mechanisms or assemblies that define the aircraft. Such designs may be enormously complex and managing information and data relating to such designs among different computer systems is challenging.

In particular compatibility issues between different computer systems owned and operated by different business entities can be a significant impediment to effective use of information and data generated by or utilized by the respective systems. Also difficulties associated with adaptations to and modifications of computer modeled designs during physical manufacture and production processes may lead to costly production delays and undesirable discrepancies between products as designed and products as built.

Consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods are disclosed for efficiently managing data and information corresponding to a computer modeled manufacture of a product that is utilized by different computer systems in the design and manufacturing process.

An exemplary embodiment of a method of revising electronic work instructions for manufacture of a product in mid production by a manufacturing execution system MES is disclosed. The electronic work instructions are generated by a computerized manufacturing process planning MPP system and the MPP system and the MES being remotely located from one another. The method comprises interfacing the MPP system and the MES with an integration server storing a released electronic work instruction for execution by the MES on the MPP system communicating the electronic work instruction to the MES via the integration server interrupting the execution of the electronic work instruction by the MES and accepting a revision to the released electronic work instruction.

A method of manufacturing a product that is being electronically modeled on a computerized manufacturing process planning MPP system that generates electronic work instructions for execution by an electronic manufacturing execution system MES is also disclosed. The electronic work instructions are stored on the MPP system and the MPP system and the MES are remotely located from one another. The method comprises interfacing the MPP system and the MES with an integration server separately provided from either of the MPP system and the MES communicating the electronic work instruction to the MES via the integration server executing the electronic work instruction with the MES and while the MES is executing the electronic work instruction pausing the execution of the electronic work instruction revising the electronic work instruction to effect a change to the electronic work instruction and re communicating the revised electronic work instruction to the MES.

A networked computer system for manufacturing of a product is also disclosed. The system comprises a manufacturing process planning MPP system adapted to create a computer model of the product manufacture and to generate electronic work instructions for manufacturing of the product a computerized manufacturing execution system MES remotely located from the MPP system the MES adapted to receive the electronic work instructions and perform corresponding manufacturing steps to produce the product and an integration server separately provided from the MPP system and the MES. The integration server is configured to retrieve the electronic work instruction from the MPP system after the MES has initiated performance of manufacturing steps but not yet completed the performing steps and the integration server is adapted to re release a revised version of the electronic work instruction.

A computer program embodied on a computer readable medium for managing electronically modeled product and manufacture data and information exchange between a computerized manufacturing process planning MPP system and an electronic manufacturing execution system MES remotely located from one another is also disclosed. The program is embodied on an integration server connected between the MPP and the MES and the MPP system generates electronic work instructions for execution by the MES . The program comprising at least one code segment that communicates the electronic work instruction to the MES via the integration server and while the MES is executing the electronic work instruction pauses the execution of the electronic work instruction accepts a revision to the electronic work instruction to effect a change to the electronic work instruction and re communicates the revised electronic work instruction to the MES.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing brief description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and should not be considered restrictive of the scope of the invention as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the invention may be directed to various combinations and sub combinations of the features described in the detailed description.

Exemplary embodiments of methods and systems are disclosed hereinbelow that facilitate efficient transfer of data and information between different computer systems for the design and manufacture of potential products. As a result incompatibility between the data input and output formats of the of the respective systems are effectively resolved and computer modeled designs may be adapted and modified in a timely manner while preserving integrity and correspondence between as built and as designed data. Consequently considerable reduction in time and expense associated with the product design and manufacture is realized.

In order to appreciate the invention to its fullest extent the following disclosure will be segmented into different parts or segments wherein Part I introduces particular difficulties and problems associated with computer systems for the design and manufacture of potential products Part II discloses exemplary embodiments of systems according to the present invention and Part III discloses exemplary inventive methods and processes utilized by the systems disclosed in Part II.

Manufacturing Process Planning MPP systems allow product manufacture to be digitally modeled and evaluated in virtual form before being physically implemented in real world manufacturing processes. Using computerized systems manufacturing issues can by analyzed and improvements can be made before capital expenditures are incurred to purchase or configure machines and equipment capable of manufacturing a product for use or sale. Such MPP systems allow manufacturing resources to analyzed and more efficiently allocated.

One type of Manufacturing Process Planning system includes commercially available Product Lifecycle Management PLM solutions which refer to a computer implemented strategy that helps companies to share product data apply common processes and leverage corporate knowledge for the development of products from conception to the end of their life. Using PLM solutions key persons across a business enterprise including but not limited to company departments business partners suppliers Original Equipment Manufacturers OEM and customers may participate to conceptualize design build and support potential products and processes. Some PLM solutions make it for instance possible to design and develop products by creating digital mockups such as 3D graphical models of a product and the digital models may be defined and simulated to analyze performance aspects and specifications. Lean digital manufacturing processes may also be defined and modeled using a PLM solution. Such PLM systems and programs include those offered by Dassault Systemes of Paris France.

The PLM solution provided by Dassault Systemes under the trademarks CATIA ENOVIA and DELMIA provides an Engineering Hub which organizes product engineering knowledge a Manufacturing Hub which manages manufacturing engineering knowledge and an Enterprise Hub which enables enterprise integrations and connections into both the Engineering and Manufacturing Hubs respectively. The PLM system delivers an open object model linking products processes resources to enable dynamic knowledge based product creation and decision support that drives optimized product definition manufacturing preparation production and service. Such PLM systems include a relational database of products. The database comprises a set of data and relations between the data. Data typically include technical data related to the products with the data being ordered in a hierarchy of data and are indexed to be searchable. The data are representative of the modeled objects which are often modeled products and processes.

With PLM systems product lifecycle information including product configuration process knowledge and resources information are typically intended to be edited in a collaborative way using PLM systems using a collaborative workspace and an interconnected environment in which all participants in the product lifecycle can access and interact with each other s designs as they evolve thereby enhancing communication through exchange direct use simulation and validation in 2D 3D or textual environment. The participants may include product designers and engineers company management product marketing personnel sales personnel manufacturing personnel OEM personnel supplier personnel and even product customers.

The benefits of such PLM systems are numerous but practical difficulties remain when using such systems. For example product design and manufacture data generated with a PLM system is often of great interest to parties using other computer systems and software sometimes referred to as peripheral computer systems that are separately provided from the PLM system. Such peripheral systems are often obtained from a different hardware software vendor than for the PLM system but are valuable to analyze certain aspects of the product design or manufacture. As a result some incompatibility between the data input and output formats of the PLM system and the data input and output formats of the peripheral systems often arises.

Conventionally such incompatibility issues leads to manual data sifting data manipulation and reformatting of data prior to actual use by the peripheral systems. Likewise before data outputs of the peripheral systems may be used by the PLM system it must also typically be sifted manipulated or reformatted. In a large complex product and manufacture design such as the design and manufacture of an aircraft significant amounts of time can be spent dealing with nothing but data transfer compatibility issues between different computer systems used by the various parties involved.

As another example of practical difficulties encountered using known PLM systems the conversion from the digital or virtual environment of the PLM system to real world manufacturing implementation of a product can sometimes by challenging. The Digital Enterprise Lean Manufacturing Interactive Application DELMIA of Dassault Systemes for example includes tools to create a Shop Order Release SOR to commence physical manufacture of a product and also Shop Order Instances SOIs that provide electronic work instructions and authorizations to the shop floor where the manufacturing is to occur. The SOIs may be directly integrated with a Manufacturing Execution System MES and or Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system that coordinates and monitors the manufacturing processes.

From time to time however it has been found that as SOIs are being executed on the shop floor one or more changes or deviations from the SOIs become advisable. For example for reasons that may not may be apparent in the digital DELMIA environment it may be found on the shop floor that manufacture according to the SOI is impractical unnecessarily difficult beyond the limitations of the machinery and equipment actually being utilized or prohibitively expensive to perform in the real world. Reconciling such changes and adaptations from the electronic SOIs to the physical manufacture in mid production can be challenging and may lead to costly delays.

In particular creating a new shop order through DELMIA that would produce a new SOI including necessary changes can be time consuming. Mid production manufacturing changes or changes made after some but not all manufacturing steps are complete for a given stage of manufacture can also be problematic in that they may result in as built product data discrepancies from the product data as designed. For example when manufacturing processes are changed after they have been initiated and are actually in process creation of a new shop order to reflect necessary changes may result in changes or revision to manufacturing process steps that have already been executed on the shop floor. Because executed manufacturing processes may not be easily reworked if at all products as built whose manufacture was in process at the time of the new SOI will therefore deviate from products built after the new SOI is generated and released. Such as built versus as designed discrepancies may lead to confusion and uncertainty that may complicate post production maintenance and service of products in the field and may lead to undesirable performance and reliability issues and variations in manufactured products.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar parts. While several exemplary embodiments and features are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the components illustrated in the drawings and the exemplary methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the methods and systems described herein. Instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

The system may be implemented when computer program instructions are loaded onto the various computers or other general purpose programmable machines to produce the various specialized machines found on the network such that the instructions that execute on the computers or other programmable machines implement the functions specified in the block diagrams schematic diagrams or flowcharts discussed below. Such computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that when loaded into a computer or other programmable machine can direct the machine to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produces instructions that implement the function specified in the block diagrams schematic diagrams or flowcharts. In addition the computer program instructions may be loaded into one or more of the computer systems illustrated or other programmable machine to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the system to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable machine may provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the block diagrams schematic diagrams flowchart blocks or steps discussed herein.

As shown in the system includes a Manufacturing Process Planning MPP system an integration server a Manufacturing Execution System and an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system and a manufacturing vendor or supplier system . The MPP system the MES the ERP system and the supplier system may be known computer systems in an exemplary embodiment with the integration server interfacing the MPP system with the MES the ERP system and the supplier system . In such an embodiment the integration server is not an operative component or part of any of the MPP system the MES the ERP system or the supplier system . Rather the integration server is separately provided from the systems and and is supplied to the system to integrate them in a beneficial manner as explained in some detail below.

In an exemplary embodiment the MPP system may be a known Product Lifecycle Management PLM solution commercially available from Dassault Systemes under the trademarks CATIA ENOVIA and DELMIA although other PLM systems may be utilized. The MPP system is configured to model the design and manufacture of a potential product and facilitate collaborative development by a number of persons across a business enterprise as explained above. Authorized persons may access modeled product data modeled manufacture data and other information using appropriate user interfaces that are familiar to those in the art.

The MPP system may include for example a navigation engine a query engine a database client and database server . Query engine is controlled by the navigation engine and it builds database statements depending on a user s commands and passes the database statements to the database client . The query engine also manages query results received from the database client .

The database client is adapted to manage database server connection. It receives queries from query engine and passes the queries to database server . It receives query results from database server and passes these results to query engine .

Database server receives queries from several database clients such as client and serves these queries. Database server is typically a relational database and may be implemented using for example the solutions available from IBM under reference DB or available from Oracle. The database could also be an object or XML database or an application server accessing a database. The application server may also provide processing on the fly or asynchronously for advanced query such as proximity query spatial query and the like.

The MPP system may also include a vault server for storing and providing representations of modeled objects contained in the database. That is the vault server is used as representations repository. The vault server may be a file server whereby representations could be stored in various files. The vault server may also be implemented using a database server using for instance blob binary language object storage. The vault server also may utilize proxy and or cache technologies. The representations of objects stored may be stored in the vault server may exists in various formats e.g. bounding box polygons bitmap images vector images subdivision surfaces or more generally any format known in the art.

The vault server is addressed with a vault client . The vault client makes it possible for the client to address the vault server for retrieving representations of objects. A representation loader may also be included and the representation loader queries the vault server through the vault client for obtaining the representations of the objects to be displayed to the user. In addition the representation loader may manage representation utilizing incremental loading upon receiving representations from vault client .

A visualization engine may manage representation display to the user. It addresses a display driver which manages the display hardware such as a graphic card in most instances. For the purpose of displaying representations on the display hardware accelerated hardware may be used through an OpenGL driver or using Microsoft Direct 3D or DirectX.

As shown in the MPP system may further include an Engineering Hub which organizes product engineering knowledge a Manufacturing Hub which manages manufacturing engineering knowledge and an Enterprise Hub which enables enterprise integrations and connections into both the Engineering and Manufacturing Hubs respectively. The hubs may be implemented in relational databases in the MPP system and each of the hubs and may utilize modeled objects for performing their respective functions. Using the modeled objects potential products and their manufacture may be designed tested and optimized using the navigation engine and the various hubs and . As used herein product may refer to any commodity and or any of its component parts or assemblies. As an illustrative example the potential product may be an entire aircraft or any of its component systems assemblies and parts.

The MPP system may be a web accessed system or platform that is located remotely from the MES and the ERP system of any particular manufacturer and also remotely located from the manufacturer supplier system . The MES the ERP system and other similar systems providing such functionality are believed to be familiar to those in the art and typically are located on site at a manufacturing facility that includes one or more areas that are often referred to as a shop floor containing necessary machinery fixtures tools and controls upon which products are physically manufactured. More than one manufacturing site may be involved using the same or different MES or ERP system for various aspects of the product manufacture and assembly for a complicated project such as the manufacture of an aircraft.

In an exemplary embodiment the manufacturing hub may be the Digital Enterprise Lean Manufacturing Interactive Application DELMIA of Dassault Systemes and may be used to communicate data to the MES . As previously noted DELMIA includes tools to create a Shop Order Release SOR to commence physical manufacture of a product and also Shop Order Instances SOIs that provide electronic work instructions and authorizations to the shop floor where the MES commences real world manufacturing of modeled products using the electronic instructions. While much of the discussion below relates to SOIs it is to be understood that SOIs created by the DELMIA application are but one type of electronic work instruction and others may likewise be utilized in other embodiments without limitation.

The SOIs may contain among other things and for example only data and information relating to raw materials to be utilized data and information relating to surface treatments such as paints coatings and sealants data and information relating to inspection points and datum for quality control purposes control data and information for performing specific process steps such as numerical control data executable by machines to shape form and finish raw materials into component parts and data and information regarding assembly of component parts to produce mechanisms assemblies and sub systems of a product. The SOIs may be stored in for example the manufacturing hub of the MPP system or elsewhere on the MPP system . The ERP system may also communicate with the MPP system to obtain necessary data and information including but not limited to SOIs.

Instead of directly communicating the SOIs with the MES and or Enterprise Resource Planning ERP that coordinates and monitors the manufacturing processes the system includes the integration server interfacing the MPP system with the MES and the ERP and also interfacing the MPP system with the vendor or supplier system .

The integration Server is designed to meet the need for Manufacturing Process Plans generated in the MPP system to be delivered to downstream systems such as the MES the ERP System and vendor or supplier systems of manufacturing suppliers of materials components etc. needed to manufacture the product. Data from these MPP system is utilized by the MES the ERP system and the supplier systems for purposes of job scheduling resource planning procurement and shop floor work instruction delivery. The integration server provides a seamless automated method of delivering this Manufacturing Process Planning data from the MPP system to the systems that will ultimately use it as described in some detail below thereby obtaining considerable time and expense of resolving data format conflicts between the interconnected systems and manual sifting and manipulation of data to provide each system with only the data that it actually needs to perform a task in the required data format.

The integration server is also accessible to for example manufacturing engineers and personnel at the shop floor where manufacturing operations actually occur and provides the capability to revise a released shop order as opposed to creating an entirely new shop order within the authoring environment of the MPP system such as with the DELMIA application. By revising released SOI s within DELMIA for example the manufacturing engineer is able to leverage the process analysis work instruction templates and generative work instruction capabilities that are available when authoring for example Job Plan masters in DELMIA.

Unlike conventional systems the system is amenable to methods of modifying an in process shop order that is being executed on the shop floor by extracting the shop order from the MPP system facilitating appropriate modification of fields of the shop order and injecting the SOI back into the MPP system in process . Modification of SOIs that are embedded within the DELMIA planning environment allows as planned and as built product configuration to be quickly reconciled. By updating SOI information that DELMIA has generated with the integration server rather than recreating entirely new SOIs using the MPP system mid production revisions to manufacturing design is facilitated with much less delay. The integration server may be particularly advantageous when used with for example CATIA DELMIA V5 CAD CAM Tools of Dassault Systemes.

As shown in the MPP system includes a variety of data and information that may be requested from the peripheral systems and . For purposes of illustration only the data may include a shop order creation for manufacture of a product control data for the manufacture of the product an engineering bill of materials a manufacturer bill of materials a supplier request a product structure request a part master request a change notice a work center request a raw material request a fabrication plan an installation plan a shop order update and a release table update.

As also shown in the manufacturer supplier interface may include a web interface an optional adaptor and one or more application programming interfaces and converting a request for information submitted via the supplier system into a format recognized by the MPP system . Likewise the business entity interface includes an optional adaptor and one or more application programming interfaces and converting a request for information submitted via for example one of the MES and the ERP system into a format recognized by the MPP system .

The adaptors and application programming interfaces APIs may be implemented in appropriate algorithms tailored to address compatibility issues between the MPP systems and the peripheral systems and in terms of data input data output and data format. As such the integration servers A and B may be thought of as interpreters that bridge the differences in form and content of data input and output between the systems and and allow seamless communication between them in an automated manner. In such a manner the integration servers A and B expose the functionality of the MPP system through web service interfaces to peripheral computer systems of the business entity and or to suppliers and vendors. The peripheral systems and may utilize a service oriented architecture SOA allowing any of the system to access data from the MPP system in whatever format and content required by the peripheral systems. The integration servers A and B avoid manual extraction of data manual editing and conversion of data and cumbersome transfer of data between incongruent computer systems. Business entities vendors and suppliers may therefore receive more timely updated data without having to reformat it for practical use.

The integration servers A and B are scalable and capable of handling multiple requests by multiple peripheral systems using known queuing techniques. In a multiple entity vendor supplier department environment using computers with certain data input and output incompatibilities the integration servers A and B are desirable to make the MPP system data available to other systems and downstream processes to maintain integrity and configuration of data.

As shown in the integration servers may be installed to interface the MPP system with the peripheral systems Once installed and so configured the integration server or servers may receive a service request for design or manufacturing data from the MPP system by any of the peripheral computer systems connected downstream from the MPP system. The requests for data may be submitted for example through web interfaces of the peripheral computer systems to the MPP system.

Once received data requests are queued on the integration servers using known techniques and the integration servers proceed to process the data requests for example in the order that they are received. It is contemplated however that certain requests may be flagged as priority requests that may be expedited and processed before other non priority requests depending on the sophistication of the particular protocol used to submit requests.

Data requests may be processed by adapting the data request to a form recognized by the MPP system and determining the particular data that is being requested. Also if necessary the data request may entail an application programming interface to be called so that information can be requested or queried from the pertinent portion of the MPP system. The data is then requested in a format compatible with the MPP system by the integration server from the MPP system. The integration servers then wait for the MPP system to respond with the requested data in a predetermined format such as an XML file having certain predefined information fields.

Once the requested data is received by the integration servers the integration servers proceed to adapt data to the extent necessary call any application programming interfaces needed and forward the data to the requesting peripheral system in the required format. The data processing is performed automatically by the integration servers and is generally transparent to end users of the peripheral systems.

Additional steps may also performed in the method such as data archiving data mining techniques and report compilation and utilization of request tracking in the protocol to evaluate system performance. Still other steps may be performed as desired.

The integration servers and the method provide an effective tool to map any site specific MPP system configuration to preferred data format and standards for use by the business entities. Cumbersome compatibility issues of incongruent systems insofar as data format and practices are concerned are avoided along with associated costs and delays of manipulating data to a readily usable form by other computer systems. All this is achievable with relatively straightforward site installation and configuration of the integration servers.

By way of example in one implementation of the method the integration server may process requests to Create Shop Orders made by the peripheral systems. For each request the integration servers may create a Shop Order Instance SOI from the MPP system and return an XML output file and CATProcess simulation file to the requesting peripheral system. The data extraction function itself is sufficiently responsive such that data can be retrieved without a significant delay. For example generating the XML document may be accomplished in about 5 seconds or less saving the CATProcess Document file may be accomplished in about 3 seconds or less adding tracking information to the XML output file may be accomplished in about 1 second or less and generation of a standard data extraction report may be accomplished in less than about 2 seconds. Considered over a lengthy period of time involved with for example the design development and manufacture of an aircraft time savings and associated expense can be significant such as for example about a 3 to 6 month reduction of time in the development cycle.

As shown in the SOI lifecycle generally encompasses three distinct phases namely creation execution and revision . The creation phase involves receiving a request for shop order requesting an SOI from the MPP system and sending the SOI to for example the MES to commence physical manufacture of the product. The creation phase in one embodiment generally encompasses the method explained above and illustrated in although the creation phase could alternatively be performed entirely within the MPP system itself.

The execution phase includes starting the job and performing manufacturing steps according to the electronic work instructions contained in the SOI. Once the job is started it generally continues until as noted above an unplanned revision is required due to observations and limitations experienced on the manufacturing shop floor. If revision is required at step the basis for the revision is documented and the revision phase is entered.

In the revision phase the documentation is reviewed typically by a manufacturing engineer or other responsible person and in response to the documentation the engineer or other person authors a revision to the SOI being executed. Once the appropriate changes modifications or revisions are authored the revised SOI is electronically released and sent back to the execution phase for completion of the SOI at step from the point that revision was required. Notably manufacturing steps that were executed prior to the revision being required at step are not changed and are not re executed but rather the execution of the revised SOI occurs and applies to only the manufacturing steps that were not yet executed at the time that revision of the SOI was required and execution of the original SOI was interrupted or paused for the revision to the SOI. Integrity and correspondence of as built and as designed product data is therefore ensured.

The method includes installing the integration servers as described above generating and releasing the SOI to for example the MES to commence manufacturing operations. The SOI may be generated and released in any manner explained above. Also in an illustrative embodiment the generation of the SOI may involve defining a plan type definition in the MPP system that allows the SOI to be represented within for example a DELMIA project. The SOI plan type allows the SOI to be stored in the DELMIA Manufacturing Hub in context with for example the Job Plan masters in the DELMIA application.

When the released SOI is communicated to the MES manufacturing operations are commenced to execute the SOI. Execution of the SOI continues until an unplanned event or observations leads to interruption of the SOI execution until the SOI can be revised. At this point the integration server retrieves the SOI so that a manufacturing engineer or other responsible person can author an appropriate revision. Retrieval of the SOI by the integration server may encompass some or all of the techniques described in relation to the method for efficient data transfer and communication between the MPP system and the MES system that the engineer or other person may utilize to author revisions to the SOI.

When appropriate changes or revision to the interrupted SOI is made the integration server accepts the revised SOI and electronically re releases the SOI including all revisions to the MES to continue its execution forward from the point of interruption at step . No changes to manufacturing steps executed prior to the interruption are made in the revision thereby ensuring the integrity and correspondence of as built and as designed data in manufactured products.

The method shown in includes installing the integration servers as described above and communicating the SOI to the MES to commence manufacturing operations. The SOI may be generated released and communicated in any manner explained above. Like the method described above the generation of the SOI may involve defining a plan type definition in the MPP system that allows the SOI to be represented within for example a DELMIA project. The SOI plan type allows the SOI to be stored in the DELMIA Manufacturing Hub in context with for example the Job Plan masters in the DELMIA application.

When the released SOI is communicated to the MES manufacturing operations are commenced to execute the SOI. Execution of the SOI continues until an unplanned event or observations leads to execution being paused until the SOI can be revised. At this point the integration server retrieves the SOI so that a manufacturing engineer or other responsible person can revise the SOI. Retrieval of the SOI by the integration server may encompass some or all of the techniques described in relation to the method for efficient data transfer and communication between the MPP system and the MES system that the engineer or other person may utilize to author revisions to the SOI.

When appropriate changes or revision to the paused SOI is made at step the integration server re communicates the SOI including all revisions to the MES to continue its execution forward from the point where it was paused at step . No changes to manufacturing steps executed prior to the pause are made in the revision thereby ensuring the integrity and correspondence of as built and as designed data in manufactured products.

Using either of the methods or the ability to revise SOIs in mid production of a product may result in a substantial reduction of production cycle time. For instance expected cycle time for revising or updating a released shop order is expected to be 10 minutes or less in most circumstances. As Planned versus As Built reconciliation can also be accomplished in about 10 minutes or less in most circumstances. Implementing a complex multi unit change to an SOI can likewise be accomplished in about 10 minutes or less.

Having now described some exemplary systems and exemplary methods and processes utilized by the systems implementation of the same is believed to be a matter of programming the components so that their respective functions may be performed. Programming details are believed to be beyond the scope of this disclosure and within the ordinary skill in the art to implement without further discussion and detail and so further detail and discussion thereof is believed to be unnecessary.

Inventive systems and methods having appreciable benefits are disclosed that address complex problems in managing the flow of data and information to and from MPP systems and peripheral computer systems in a large scale complex product design and manufacture such as an aircraft design. The systems and methods further facilitate manufacturing changes and revisions in mid production manufacturing processes with minimal delay and while ensuring integrity and correspondence of as built and as designed product and manufacture data. These and other benefits and advantages are now believed to be amply disclosed and demonstrated.

While exemplary methods and systems haves been described in terms of various specific embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that they can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the claims.

