---

title: Context sensitive television menu
abstract: A television menu system generates a television menu that is context sensitive based upon a service currently being provided to a user. In one implementation, a type of television service currently being viewed by a user determines whether particular menu items are presented to the user. In another implementations, determining which channel is being provided dictates whether particular menu options are included.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08776134&OS=08776134&RS=08776134
owner: 
number: 08776134
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20071017
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 693 606 filed on Oct. 10 2000 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates in general to television systems and more particularly to the field of media on demand.

With recent advances in digital transmission technology cable television systems are now capable of providing much more than the traditional analog broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming the home communication terminal HCT otherwise known as the settop box has become an important computing device for accessing video services and navigating a subscriber through a maze of services available. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality digital HCTs or DHCTs now also support an increasing number of two way digital services such as video on demand.

Typically a DHCT is connected to a cable or satellite television network and includes hardware and software necessary to provide the functionality of the digital television system at the client s site. Preferably some of the software executed by a DHCT is downloaded and or updated via the cable television network. Each DHCT also typically includes a processor communication components and memory and is connected to a television or other display device such as a personal computer. While many conventional DHCTs are stand alone devices that are externally connected to a television a DHCT and or its functionality may be integrated into a television or personal computer as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

DHCTs provide users with a wide variety of television related menu options such as for example a menu option for viewing an interactive program guide. As the number of available television services and corresponding menu options increases it can become inconvenient and time consuming for users to search for and find a desired menu option. Therefore there exists a need to make it easier and more convenient for users to access desired television menu options.

A television menu system generates a television menu that is context sensitive based upon a service currently being provided to a user. In one implementation a type of television service currently being viewed by a user determines whether particular menu items are presented to the user. In another implementation determining which channel is being provided dictates whether particular menu options are included.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

The present invention is generally implemented as part of a cable television system CTS . Hence an illustrative CTS and its operation will be described initially. shows a block diagram view of a CTS which is generally a high quality reliable and integrated network system that features video audio voice and data services to DHCT users. Although depicts a high level view of a CTS it should be appreciated that a plurality of cable television systems can tie together a plurality of regional networks into an integrated global network so that DHCT users can receive content provided from anywhere in the world.

The CTS delivers broadcast video signals as digitally formatted signals in addition to delivering traditional broadcast analog video signals. Furthermore the system can support one way broadcast services as well as both one way data services and two way media and data services. The two way operation of the network allows for user interactivity with services such as Pay Per View programming Near Video On Demand NVOD programming according to any of several known NVOD implementation methods View on Demand VOD programming according to any of several known VOD implementation methods and interactive applications such as Internet connections and interactive media Guide IMG applications.

The CTS also provides the interfaces network control transport control session control and servers to access content and services and distributes content and services to DHCT users. As shown in a typical CTS comprises a headend hubs an HFC access network and users digital home communication terminals DHCTs . It should be appreciated that although a single component e.g. a headend is illustrated in a CTS can feature a plurality of any one of the illustrated components or may be configured with alternative embodiments for any one of the individual components or with yet other additional components not enumerated above. A content provider not shown transmits media content to a headend for further transmission to users downstream in the network.

Content provided by a content provider is communicated by the content provider to one or more headends . From those headends the content is then communicated over a communications network that includes a plurality of HFC access networks only one HFC access network is illustrated . The HFC access network typically comprises a plurality of HFC nodes each of which may serve a local geographical area. The hub connects to the HFC node through a fiber portion of the HFC access network . The HFC node is connected to a tap which is connected to a network interface unit NIU which is connected to a DHCT . The NIU is normally located at a user s property and provides a transparent interface between the HFC node and the users internal wiring. Coaxial cables are typically used to couple nodes taps and NIUs because the electrical signals can be easily repeated with radio frequency RF amplifiers.

As the high level operations of many of the functions of CTSs are well known to those of skill in the art further description of the overall CTS of will not be contained herein. It will be appreciated however that the CTS shown in is merely illustrative and should not be construed as implying any limitations upon the scope of the present invention.

The DNCS provides complete management monitoring and control of the network s elements and broadcast services provided to users. In one implementation the DNCS uses a data insertion multiplexer and a data QAM to insert in band broadcast file system BFS data into an MPEG 2 transport stream that is broadcast and received via DHCT s communication interface and tuner system . The DNCS also contains a session manager that uses Digital Storage Media Command and Control DSMCC protocol to set up and maintain MOD sessions. The session manager processes user to network U N session signaling messages manages allocation of session related network resources supports network management operations acts as a point of contact to the network for the DHCT s in the network to establish individual sessions and supports MOD services by providing the signaling interface to establish maintain and release client initiated exclusive sessions.

A service application manager SAM server is a server component of a client server pair of components with the client component being located at the DHCT . Together the client server SAM components provide a system in which the user can access services which are identified by an application to run and a parameter such as particular data content specific to that service. The client server SAM components also manage the life cycle of the applications on the system including the definition activation and suspension of services they provide and the downloading of the applications into the DHCT as necessary. Applications on both the headend and the DHCT can access the data stored in a broadcast file system BFS server in a similar manner to a file system found on operating systems. The BFS server is a part of a broadcast file system that has a counterpart BFS client module in a DHCT connected to the network . The BFS server repeatedly sends data for applications on a data carousel not shown over a period of time in cyclical repeated fashion so that a DHCT that is in need of reading any particular data file or parts thereof may receive it when requested by a user or one or more of its internal running processes.

A VOD content manager is responsible for managing the content on the VOD content servers . The MOD server application controls both the VOD content manager and the VOD content servers and utilizes them to help deliver the video and audio streams that make up VOD services. In one embodiment an MOD content manager and MOD content servers not shown could run respectively in parallel to the VOD content manager and VOD content servers to manage other types of on demand media content. In an alternate embodiment an MOD content manager replaces the VOD content manager and the MOD content servers replaces the VOD content servers . The QAM modulators that comprise the QAM group receive the MPEG 2 transport streams from the VOD content servers convert them into encrypted RF signals at a specified frequency channel and transmit them to a DHCT via the network .

The QPSK modem is responsible for transporting the out of band IP internet protocol datagram traffic between the distribution headend and a DHCT . Data from the QPSK modem is routed by headend router within the headend . The headend router is also responsible for delivering upstream application traffic to the various server applications .

The DHCT may also include one or more wireless or wired interfaces also called ports for receiving and or transmitting data to other devices. For instance the DHCT may feature USB Universal Serial Bus Ethernet for connection to a computer IEEE 1394 for connection to media devices in an entertainment center serial and or parallel ports. The user inputs may for example be provided by a computer or transmitter with buttons or keys located either on the exterior of the terminal or by a hand held remote control device or keyboard that includes user actuated buttons.

In one implementation the DHCT includes system memory which includes flash memory and dynamic random access memory DRAM for storing various applications modules and data for execution and use by the processor . Basic functionality of the DHCT is provided by an operating system that is primarily stored in flash memory . Among other things the operating system includes at least one resource manager that provides an interface to resources of the DHCT such as for example computing resources.

One or more programmed software applications herein referred to as applications are executed by utilizing the computing resources in the DHCT . Applications stored in flash memory or DRAM are executed by processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of the operating system . Data required as input by an application is stored in DRAM or flash memory and read by processor as need be during the course of the application s execution. Input data may be data stored in DRAM by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to the DHCT or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application at the time it was generated as a software application in which case it is stored in flash memory . Data generated by an application is stored in DRAM by processor during the course of the application s execution. DRAM also includes application memory that various applications may use for storing and or retrieving data.

An application referred to as navigator is also resident in flash memory for providing a navigation framework for services provided by the DHCT . The navigator registers for and in some cases reserves certain user inputs related to navigational keys such as channel increment decrement last channel favorite channel etc. The client applications may be resident in flash memory or downloaded into DRAM . The navigator also provides users with television related menu options that correspond to DHCT functions such as for example providing an interactive program guide blocking a channel or a group of channels from being displayed in a channel menu and displaying a video on demand purchase list.

The flash memory also contains a platform library . The platform library is a collection of utilities useful to applications such as a timer manager a compression manager a configuration manager an HTML parser a database manager a widget toolkit a string manager and other utilities not shown . These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces APIs as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library that are shown in are a window manager and a service application manager client SAM .

The window manager provides a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the screen regions and user input. The window manager on the DHCT is responsible for as directed by one or more applications implementing the creation display and de allocation of the limited DHCT screen resources. It allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions or windows. The window manager also maintains among other things a user input registry in DRAM so that when a user enters a key or a command via the remote control device or another input device such as a keyboard or mouse the user input registry is accessed to determine which of various applications running on the DHCT should receive data corresponding to the input key and in which order. As an application is executed it registers a request to receive certain user input keys or commands. When the user presses a key corresponding to one of the commands on the remote control device the command is received by the receiver and relayed to the processor . The processor dispatches the event to the operating system where it is forwarded to the window manager which ultimately accesses the user input registry and routes data corresponding to the incoming command to the appropriate application.

The SAM client is a client component of a client server pair of components with the server component being located on the headend . A SAM database in DRAM includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Many services can be defined using the same application component with different parameters. Examples of services include without limitation and in accordance with one implementation presenting television programs available through a WatchTV application pay per view events available through a PPV application digital music not shown media on demand available through an MOD application and an interactive program guide. In general the identification of a service includes the identification of an executable application that provides the service along with a set of application dependent parameters that indicate to the application the service to be provided. As a non limiting example a service of presenting a television program could be executed with a set of parameters to view HBO or with a separate set of parameters to view CNN. Each association of the application component tune video and one parameter component HBO or CNN represents a particular service that has a unique service I.D. The SAM client also interfaces with the resource manager as discussed below to control resources of the DHCT .

Application clients can also be downloaded into DRAM at the request of the SAM client typically in response to a request by the user or in response to a message from the headend. In this non limiting example DRAM contains a media on demand application MOD an e mail application and a web browser application among others not shown . It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for this present embodiment of the invention. Furthermore one or more DRAM based applications may as an alternative embodiment be resident in flash memory . These applications and others provided by the cable system operator are top level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.

In one implementation applications executing on the DHCT work with the navigator by abiding by several guidelines. First an application utilizes the SAM client for the provision activation and suspension of services. Second an application shares DHCT resources with other applications and abides by the resource management policies of the SAM client the operating system and the DHCT . Third an application handles situations where resources are only available with navigator intervention. Fourth when an application loses service authorization while providing a service the application suspends the service via the SAM the navigator will reactivate an individual service application when it later becomes authorized . Finally an application client is designed to not have access to certain user input keys reserved by the navigator i.e. power channel volume etc. .

The MOD client application provides the user with lists of available media titles to choose from and with video presentations requested by the user. The MOD client application provides video presentations to the user by engaging preferably in a direct two way IP Internet Protocol connection with VOD content servers .

An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system OS component or to a client platform component or to a client application or to respective parts thereof can reside in and execute out of DRAM and or flash memory . Likewise data inputted into or outputted from any executable program can reside in DRAM or flash memory . Furthermore an executable program or algorithm corresponding to an OS component or to a client platform component or to a client application or to respective parts thereof can reside in flash memory or in a local storage device connected to DHCT and can be transferred into DRAM for execution. Likewise data input for an executable program can reside in flash memory or a storage device and can be transferred into DRAM for use by an executable program or algorithm. In addition data outputted by an executable program can be written into DRAM by an executable program or algorithm and can be transferred into flash memory or into a storage device for storage purposes. The present invention is not limited by where or how data and or applications are stored or retrieved.

Each of the above mentioned applications comprises executable instructions for implementing logical functions and can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner and then stored in a computer memory.

As discussed above the SAM database includes channel and service data structures. Refer now to which shows a block diagram representation of a channel data structure and a service data structure . Each entry in the channel data structure includes a channel number and a pointer to a service ID corresponding to an entry in the service data structure as represented by arrows . Each entry in the service data structure includes in accordance with one implementation a service ID an application identifier or Uniform Resource Locator URL a parameter such as a television program name etc. a short title for the service a long title for the service a logo for the service and one or more menu options. The menu options identified are menu options that are presented to a user in response to the DHCT receiving a predefined input signal such as for example a signal corresponding to the menu button located on the remote control device . Of course other implementations of the present invention include greater or fewer data structures with greater or fewer elements of information in each data structure entry. Typically a system operator defines the channel data structure s for the lineup of services to be provided in any particular system. Also while a system operator may define the information contained in the service data structure various applications in the DHCT may also create entries into the service data structure via a SAM server API. Many factors may be used to determine whether a menu option is associated with a particular service and or channel. These factors include the actual and relative frequency that the menu option will be selected by users whether a media provider desires such menu option to be provided to users accessing a service provided by the media provider the feasibility of providing the functionality identified by the menu option and alternative methods by which users may access the functionality provided by the menu option.

With continued reference to throughout the remaining figures is an example window illustrating a quick settings menu that is provided in response to the activation of menu button to a user currently receiving an analog television service. An example of an analog television service is a television program that is transmitted through analog signals. The window includes a heading area a highlighted option within an options area a highlighted status within a status column and a navigation instruction section . The heading area includes a title for the window A and may include instructions such as instruction B.

In this non limiting example options area contains three selections the first selection corresponds to an option to record the currently tuned channel the second selection which is also the highlighted option corresponds to an option to enable a second audio program SAP and the third selection corresponds to an option to set a sleep timer. A status column provides indications as to the status of the corresponding selections listed in the options area . In this example the highlighted status area indicates that the SAP service which is currently the highlighted option is not activated.

A highlighted status of an entry field is differentiated from appearance of the same entry field in a non highlighted location by one of any visual feedback mechanisms applied to highlighted status such as darkening brightening flashing or blinking or special outlining on the edges of the highlighted status field. Outlining options may include a different color or implementation of beveled edges to effect a visual indentation. Text colors can also be used to differentiate the highlighted area in combination with any of the other forms of differentiation.

In a preferred embodiment pressing the select key toggles the state of a highlighted status . In another embodiment pressing left and right arrow keys also affect state of a highlighted status . In an alternate embodiment the user selects a priori via configuration screens which of the two methods effects the state change either via pressing left and right arrow keys or via pressing the select key . A first selected method by a user is active until a subsequent time when a user selects a second method.

In an alternate embodiment an option that comprises two states such as on or off does not require a corresponding entry in the status column and the active state of the respective option is inherent in the description comprised in highlighted area . For an option exhibiting more than two states the user presses the left and right arrow keys to cycle in a consistent periodic fashion through the available selectable states and then presses the select key to activate the selected state.

In another embodiment of the present invention a user is provided in response to user input with a context sensitive television help menu for accessing help information pertaining to the respective service application or DHCT machine state that is currently active. Whether a certain help menu option is included in the television help menu depends on the service that is being provided to the user at the time that the user requests the television help menu. In yet another embodiment a user is provided in response to user input with a context sensitive service information menu for accessing service related information. Whether a certain information menu option is included in the service information menu depends on the service that is being provided to the user at the time that the user requests the service information menu.

Information related to user selections and preferences reflected by user input described above is stored in application memory of DRAM or read write non volatile memory not shown of DHCT and or a VOD server. If DHCT has a local storage device either internally or externally connected via a communication port or local storage interface it can be used to alternatively store user selection information rather than employing the VOD server or in addition to the VOD server. Information related to user selections and preferences described herein is read from DHCT s memory to fill respective data fields in screens presented to a user. Alternatively user selection information can be read from the DHCT s local storage if applicable or the VOD server. Regardless of where user selection information is stored a subset of information is stored in read write non volatile memory of DHCT by the application executing in DHCT to find a backed up version of user selection information in the event that DHCT experiences a power outage period. This set of information is stored in non volatile memory includes an indication as to whether there is user selection information for which a single bit of non volatile memory can be designated and information such as a directory path or user identification for where a copy of the information can be retrieved from the VOD server or from the DHCT s local storage device if applicable .

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of the implementations merely setting forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the inventions. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit of the principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and present invention and protected by the following claims.

