---

title: Navigation device and method for informational screen display
abstract: A method and device are disclosed for navigation. In at least one embodiment, the method includes displaying a plurality of selectable point of interest entries on an integrated input and display of a navigation device; and displaying, upon receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the point of interest entries, an informational screen including display of a location of the selected point of interest entry relative to a current location of the navigation device, at least a phone number of the selected point of interest entry, and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry. In at least one other embodiment of the present application, a device includes an integrated input and display device to display a plurality of selectable point of interest entries; and a processor to receive an indication of selection one of the point of interest entries, the integrated input and display device being further useable to display, upon the receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the point of interest entries by the processor, an informational screen including display of a location of the selected point of interest entry relative to a current location of the navigation device, at least a phone number of the selected point of interest entry, and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08160815&OS=08160815&RS=08160815
owner: Tomtom International B.V.
number: 08160815
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20071010
---
The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e on each of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 879 523 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 549 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 553 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 577 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 599 filed Jan. 10 2007 and 60 879 529 filed Jan. 10 2007 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present application. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EARLY INSTRUCTION OUTPUT application Ser. No. 11 907 229 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING AND USING PROFILES application Ser. No. 11 907 230 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED MAP DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 231 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD RELATING TO AN AUDIBLE RECOGNITION MODE application Ser. No. 11 907 232 filed on even date herewith NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING POINTS OF INTEREST Application Ser. No. 11 907 233 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR FUEL PRICING DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 234 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DEALING WITH LIMITED ACCESS ROADS application Ser. No. 11 907 243 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRAVEL WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 244 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DRIVING BREAK WARNING application Ser. No. 11 907 227 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ISSUING WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 242 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAY OF POSITION IN TEXT READABLE FORM application Ser. No. 11 907 241 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EMERGENCY SERVICE ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 228 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING REGIONAL TRAVEL INFORMATION IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 240 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING SPECIAL CHARACTERS IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 239 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A PERSONAL AREA NETWORK application Ser. No. 11 907 238 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A LOCATION MESSAGE application Ser. No. 11 907 237 filed on even date herewith NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONSERVING POWER Ser. No. 11 907 236 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL application Ser. No. 11 907 253 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL RESOURCE application Ser. No. 11 907 252 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR QUICK OPTION ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 251 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING A RICH CONTENT DOCUMENT application Ser. No. 11 907 257 filed on even date herewith.

Navigation devices were traditionally utilized mainly in the areas of vehicle use such as on cars motorcycles trucks boats etc. Alternatively if such navigation devices were portable they were further transferable between vehicles and or useable outside the vehicle for foot travel for example.

These devices are typically tailored to produce a route of travel based upon an initial position of the navigation device and a selected input travel destination end position noting that the initial position could be entered into the device but is traditionally calculated via GPS Positioning from a GPS receiver within the navigation device.

In known navigation systems menus are used to display various travel destinations desired locations and desired points of interest. A user for example can select a category of restaurants as a point of interest and can find a plurality of selections available. The user can then select a particular restaurant and then determine a route to that restaurant using the navigation system.

The inventors discovered that although a plurality of selectable various travel destinations or locations were displayed in known navigation systems under desired points of interest listing a plurality of entries for example in various selectable categories only limited information was conveyed to the user. Thus the inventors developed informational screens and informational symbols to convey more information regarding points of interest to the user in an efficient manner.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes prompting selection of one of a plurality of point of interest icons on an integrated input and display device of a navigation device displaying a plurality of selectable point of interest entries on the navigation device in response to receipt of an indication of selection one of the icons and displaying upon receipt of an indication of selection of one of the point of interest entries an informational screen regarding the selected point of interest entry including at least a name and a phone number of the selected point of interest entry along with a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes an integrated input and display device to display a plurality of selectable point of interest icons and a processor to receive an indication of selection one of the icons the integrated input and display device being further useable to display a plurality of selectable point of interest entries in response to the processor receiving an indication of selection one of the icons and upon the processor receiving an indication of selection of one of the point of interest entries the integrated input and display device being further useable to display an informational screen regarding the selected point of interest entry including at least a name and a phone number of the selected point of interest entry along with a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a method includes displaying a plurality of selectable point of interest entries on an integrated input and display device of a navigation device and displaying upon receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the point of interest entries an informational screen including display of a location of the selected point of interest entry relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device at least a phone number of the selected point of interest entry and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a device includes an integrated input and display device to display a plurality of selectable point of interest entries and a processor to receive an indication of selection one of the point of interest entries the integrated input and display device being further useable to display upon the receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the point of interest entries by the processor an informational screen including display of a location of the selected point of interest entry relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device at least a phone number of the selected point of interest entry and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR the GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in extremely precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites can relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by the same geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device touch panel and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touchscreen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectible to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a data connection between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example.

The navigation device in at least one embodiment may establish a mobile network connection with the server via a mobile device such as a mobile phone PDA and or any device with mobile phone technology establishing a digital connection such as a digital connection via known Bluetooth technology for example . Thereafter through its network service provider the mobile device can establish a network connection through the internet for example with a server . As such a mobile network connection is established between the navigation device which can be and often times is mobile as it travels alone and or in a vehicle and the server to provide a real time or at least very up to date gateway for information.

The establishing of the network connection between the mobile device via a service provider and another device such as the server using the internet for example can be done in a known manner. This can include use of TCP IP layered protocol for example. The mobile device can utilize any number of communication standards such as CDMA GSM WAN etc.

As such an internet connection may be utilized which is achieved via data connection via a mobile phone or mobile phone technology within the navigation device for example. For this connection an internet connection between the server and the navigation device is established. This can be done for example through a mobile phone or other mobile device and a GPRS General Packet Radio Service connection GPRS connection is a high speed data connection for mobile devices provided by telecom operators GPRS is a method to connect to the internet.

The navigation device can further complete a data connection with the mobile device and eventually with the internet and server via existing Bluetooth technology for example in a known manner wherein the data protocol can utilize any number of standards such as the GSRM the Data Protocol Standard for the GSM standard for example.

The navigation device may include its own mobile phone technology within the navigation device itself including an antenna for example wherein the internal antenna of the navigation device can further alternatively be used . The mobile phone technology within the navigation device can include internal components as specified above and or can include an insertable card complete with necessary mobile phone technology and or an antenna for example. As such mobile phone technology within the navigation device can similarly establish a network connection between the navigation device and the server via the internet for example in a manner similar to that of any mobile device .

For GRPS phone settings the Bluetooth enabled device may be used to correctly work with the ever changing spectrum of mobile phone models manufacturers etc. model manufacturer specific settings may be stored on the navigation device for example. The data stored for this information can be updated in a manner discussed in any of the embodiments previous and subsequent.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle such as a car or boat for example. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD Roms for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and TCP IP connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

As indicated above in of the application a navigation device of an embodiment of the present application includes a processor an input device and a display screen . In at least one embodiment the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device to enable both input of information via direct input menu selection etc. and display of information through a touch panel screen for example. Such a screen may be a touch input LCD screen for example as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further the navigation device can also include any additional input device and or any additional output device such as audio input output devices for example.

The navigation device may sit on an arm which itself may be secured to a vehicle dashboard window etc. using a large suction cup . This arm is one example of a docking station to which the navigation device can be docked.

As shown in the navigation device can be docked or otherwise connected to an arm of the docking station by snap connecting the navigation device to the arm for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for connection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application . The navigation device may then be rotatable on the arm as shown by the arrow of . To release the connection between the navigation device and the docking station a button on the navigation device may be pressed for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for disconnection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application .

The inventors discovered that although a plurality of selectable various travel destinations or locations were displayed in known navigation systems under desired points of interest listing a plurality of entries for example in various selectable categories only limited information was conveyed to the user. Thus the inventors developed informational screens and informational symbols to convey more information regarding points of interest to the user in an efficient manner.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes prompting selection of one of a plurality of point of interest icons on an integrated input and display device of a navigation device displaying a plurality of selectable point of interest entries on the navigation device in response to receipt of an indication of selection one of the icons and displaying upon receipt of an indication of selection of one of the point of interest entries an informational screen regarding the selected point of interest entry including at least a name and a phone number of the selected point of interest entry along with a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes an integrated input and display device to display a plurality of selectable point of interest icons and a processor to receive an indication of selection one of the icons the integrated input and display device being further useable to display a plurality of selectable point of interest entries in response to the processor receiving an indication of selection one of the icons and upon the processor receiving an indication of selection of one of the point of interest entries the integrated input and display device being further useable to display an informational screen regarding the selected point of interest entry including at least a name and a phone number of the selected point of interest entry along with a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

As shown in points of interest can be determined by a processor in various known ways. For example as shown in POI near you can provide Points of Interest near a current location of a navigation device wherein a current location of a navigation device can be determined by a received GPS signal for example and Points of Interest near namely within a certain threshold distance can be determined in a known manner by the processor for example.

In the example shown in the various Points of Interest relate to the fuel station locations as indicated by the fuel pump shown in connection with the other icons of . For example a user could first select the petrol station icon shown in and then thereafter could be presented with the display of to select an icon relating to fuel or petrol stations near a location of the navigation device in a particular city near a home location of a navigation device along a determined route of the navigation device near a particular destination of the navigation device etc. Accordingly in the current example embodiment of the present application locations of gas stations are being determined but it should be noted that the present application may relate to any POI and is not just limited to gas station locations.

After step S the process of then proceeds to step S where it is determined whether or not a POI icon is selected. For example in if the user of the navigation device desires to find fuel station locations which are along or near a current route of travel of the navigation device the user may select the POI along route icon. In response to receipt of an indication of selection of one of the icons by the processor for example the processor can then control the integrated input and display device for example to display a plurality of selectable Point of Interest entries in step S. One example of a display of entries is shown in of the present application wherein these entries are displayed upon receipt of the POI along route icon as shown in of the present application.

As shown in the selectable Point of Interest POI entries may be displayed on an integrated input and display device of the navigation device in conjunction with distance information wherein the distance information indicates a distance between a location related to the selectable Point of Interest entry and location of the navigation device along a route of travel of the navigation device .

For example the first entry of is entitled Benzinestation slagboom b v and it is located 2.1 kilometers from a current location of the navigation device . Such distances can be determined by the processor for example comparing stored location information of the particular gas station to the current location of the navigation device obtained based upon a GPS signal for example. The processor can then compare this current location to a database stored in memory for example of gas stations to find gas stations proximate to the route of travel of the navigation device and can then determine and direct the integrated input and display device to display distances from the current location of the navigation device as shown in for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application the distance may be measured from the position of the navigation device on the travel route to a position on the travel route nearest to the poi. This can further include the distance that it will take to drive from the travel route to the poi. In such an instance the distance would be driving distance over the roads to reach the poi.

An exception in at least one embodiment may be the icons with the biggest detour for example and where it may not have been confirmed that there is a connection by roads from the current travel route to the poi the processor may just have confirmed that the poi is in range of the travel route . In that case the distance may be estimated by the processor from the current position of the navigation device on the travel route to the position on the travel route nearest to the poi plus an added distance between the travel route and the poi for example. This added distance may be the greater of the distance up to which the processor searched for a route of travel from the travel route to the poi and a distance between the travel route and the poi in a straight line.

All other poi searches preferably list the distance to the poi in a straight line measured from the search point which is either the GPS current location poi near you the city center point poi in city your home position poi near home or the destination position poi near destination . The route proximity icons may be used to convey the second part of the distance component. This distance may only be added to the displayed distance in a poi along route search for example.

The display of can also include display of the selectable Points of Interest entries in conjunction with a symbol representative of proximity to a current route of travel of the navigation device . Such symbols are shown by elements and for example. The shape of the displayed symbol may be used to convey proximity to a current route of travel of the navigation device for example wherein the arrow may be used to designate that the Point of Interest Benzinestation slagboom b v is along the current route of travel of the navigation device you do not have to leave the current route of travel wherein the crooked arrows and can be used to indicate that the corresponding Point of Interest entries are not along the current route of travel and thus will require a detour.

In addition color can be used to convey proximity to a current route of travel in the navigation device . For example the fifth entry corresponding to the symbol can have its symbol displayed in the first color such as green for example to indicate that it is near the route of travel and can be located by only a small detour for example it may indicate that the processor was actually able to find a route of travel from the current route of travel and within a distance route length wherein the third entry Garage lux can have its symbol be displayed in a different color such as a yellow color to indicate that although it is near the route of travel a larger detour is needed to reach its location and or can indicate that the processor could not confirm a connection between the current route of travel and a route to the POI within a threshold search distance for example . Thus although the distance of the fifth entry corresponding to the symbol is larger than the distance of the third entry of Garage lux corresponding to the symbol the color of the symbol can be used to convey whether or not a large detour is needed or a small detour is needed for example thereby conveying the proximity to a current route of travel of the navigation device and not just proximity to a current location of the navigation device itself.

It should be noted that the various information to be displayed in the display screen may be determined by the processor for example wherein the processor can compare stored information for various Points of Interest within a selected category for example to a current location of the navigation device in a manner previously discussed. Further the processor can compare for the entries relatively closest to the current location of the navigation device for example positions of the various entries relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device to determine whether or not the location of the various Points of Interest entries are along the route of travel or not along the route of travel. As such the processor can direct display of the various symbols icons and for example based upon shape. In addition color can be used to differentiate from various ones of the symbols icons and based upon whether or not a detour will have to be a large or small detour compared in relation to a threshold for example based upon the location of the route of travel of the navigation device and not just based upon a current location of the navigation device . As such symbols of different colors can be display in for example as directed by the processor .

Referring back to the process of once a plurality of the Point of Interest entries are display in step S such as those shown in for example the processor can then determine whether or not one of the Point of Interest entries has been selected in step S. If not it merely awaits for such a selection and if so the processor proceeds to step S wherein the processor can direct the integrated input and display device to display upon receipt of an indication of selection of one of the Points of Interest entries an informational screen regarding the selected Point of Interest entry.

Examples an informational screen is shown in for example and can include at least a name and of for example a phone number and of for example and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected Point of Interest entry such as the dial prompt in each of B and C. As such the prompt to dial the phone number of the selected Point of Interest entry can include display of a selectable virtual key displayed on the integrated input and display device for example.

As shown in additional virtual keys and may also be displayed. Thus in addition to the selectable virtual key to dial the phone number the displaying on the informational screen may further include display of at least two other virtual keys one for formal selection of the selected Point of Interest entry after display of the informational screen the select button key and one for cancelling the display of the informational screen of the selected Point of Interest entry the back key . Upon selection of the back key for example in any one of the display may return to that of for example.

In addition as shown in each of the informational screen display may include an icon representing the location of the selected Point of Interest entry with map information relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device . For example as shown in an icon in in and in may be displayed along with map information representing a location of the Point of Interest relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device . Such a route of travel can be designated by elements of of and of for example. Again this displaying can be dictated by the processor directing display of both the route of travel and and a location of a selected Point of Interest entry and on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device .

It should be noted that the informational screens shown in are merely examples of screens which may be displayed in connection with the present application upon selecting of a particular Point of Interest entry. An alternative embodiment of a display screen is shown in of the present application wherein the display screen may merely display only a brief amount of information identifying for example a distance and a phone number of the selected Point of Interest. This is shown by element of indicating that a gas station is 2.1 kilometers from a route of travel of the navigation device a name Shell petrol station and a phone number as indicated by element . Additionally selectable virtual keys may be displayed to enable dialing a phone number such as key for example as well as a key done to actually select the Point of Interest entry and the cancel key acting somewhat similar to the back key of for example. Again many alternatives for the informational screen may be included without deviating from embodiments of the present application.

As shown in many of the and inclusion of a selectable virtual key to dial a phone number or inclusion of some type of prompt to dial the phone number of a selected Point of Interest entry can be done if the navigation device is currently paired with a mobile phone or otherwise connected via a Bluetooth link for example. If the user of the navigation device has his her telephone mobile phone for example via a Bluetooth or other wireless connection is paired with the navigation device the navigation device can automatically dial a phone number.

As shown in for example the informational screen can further include another virtual key entitled details. Upon selection of this virtual key additional information regarding the Point of Interest entry can be displayed in the form of for example rich text information. This rich text information can be displayed in a manner as shown in for example and can include among other things additional information regarding the selected Point of Interest entries such as the actual address the brand name of the Point of Interest entry its hours of operation and other aspects relating to its facilities. In the example shown in the gas station address is indicated its brand name bp is indicated the fact that it has 24 hour service is indicated and it is further indicated that diesel lpg and petrol are available at the facility. This rich text information can be retrieved and later displayed via a rich text displayer as discussed in application Ser. No. 11 907 257 entitled A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING A RICH CONTENT DOCUMENT filed on even date herewith the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Alternatively upon selection of the details button displayed on the virtual screen of for example a more detailed map can be displayed wherein the new detailed map can include for example a new route of travel and . Thus upon selection of the details button of or upon selection of any other particular button the processor of the navigation device can calculate a new route of travel including travel to the selected Point of Interest entry. This new route of travel of and of can be displayed along with Illap information along with other Points of Interest such as other gas stations for example etc. Route of travel can be easily determined in a known manner as the processor merely reroutes the travel route so as to include the location of the Point of Interest entry.

Alternatively as shown with regard to a new route of travel can be determined near a Point of Interest entry if the Point of Interest will require a significant rerouting for example. Thus the route as shown in merely goes near the Garage lux Point of Interest and does not correspond therewith. Again other Points of Interest can be displayed as well as a telephone number and or name of the selected Point of Interest entry. Example options to plan a route to POI include but are not limited to clicking on or otherwise selecting the POI click a navigate there virtual button select the POI via a navigate to button etc.

It should be noted that the example embodiment of the present application as shown in was previously discussed with regard to gas station locations being the selected Point of Interest entry. However the application is equally applicable to any type of Point of Interest wherein additional details of the rich text information can be displayed in association with a selected Point of Interest entry along with other information such as the phone number the virtual keys etc. displayed on the informational screen of the selected Point of Interest entry. For example the information displayed on the informational screen can include open hours for shops or churches movie times for movie theaters hours of operation for restaurants detailed information regarding a particular church restaurant shop etc. Thus the present application should not be limited to Points of Interest which are gasoline stations for example.

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the method of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a navigation device including an integrated input and display device to display a plurality of selectable point of interest icons and a processor to receive an indication of selection one of the icons the integrated input and display device being further useable to display a plurality of selectable point of interest entries in response to the processor receiving an indication of selection one of the icons and upon the processor receiving an indication of selection of one of the point of interest entries the integrated input and display device being further useable to display an informational screen regarding the selected point of interest entry including at least a name and a phone number of the selected point of interest entry along with a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry. Thus such a navigation device may be used to perform the various aspects of the method described with regard to as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a method includes displaying a plurality of selectable point of interest entries on an integrated input and display device of a navigation device and displaying upon receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the point of interest entries an informational screen including display of a location of the selected point of interest entry relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device at least a phone number of the selected point of interest entry and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a device includes an integrated input and display device to display a plurality of selectable point of interest entries and a processor to receive an indication of selection one of the point of interest entries the integrated input and display device being further useable to display upon the receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the point of interest entries by the processor an informational screen including display of a location of the selected point of interest entry relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device at least a phone number of the selected point of interest entry and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry.

In step S upon receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the Point of Interest entries by processor for example in step S an informational screen is displayed including display of a relative location of the selected Point of Interest entry and a current route of travel of the navigation device along with at least a phone number of the selected Point of Interest entry and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected Point of Interest entry. An example informational screen is shown for example in to C. Thus as the processor has already determined a current route of travel of the navigation device from map information stored in memory input selection of a travel destination and a current GPS location for example it can direct the integrated input and display device to display a location of a selected Point of Interest entry relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device along with a phone number and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected Point of Interest entry in a manner somewhat similar to that previously described.

Again the prompt to dial the phone number can include display of a selectable virtual key such as that previously described and the informational screen can include a display with map information conveying a relative location of the selected Point of Interest entry and the current location of the navigation device for example. Still further the selectable Point of Interest entry can be displayed on the navigation device in conjunction with a symbol representative of proximity to a current route of travel of the navigation device wherein a displayed color of the symbol and or shape of the symbol can be used to convey proximity to a current route of travel of the navigation device . Somewhat similar to that previously described the informational screen can further include display of at least one further key for cancelling the display of the informational screen.

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the method of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a navigation device including an integrated input and display device to display a plurality of selectable point of interest entries and a processor to receive an indication of selection one of the point of interest entries the integrated input and display device being further useable to display upon the receipt of an indication of a selection of one of the point of interest entries by the processor an informational screen including display of a location of the selected point of interest entry relative to a current route of travel of the navigation device at least a phone number of the selected point of interest entry and a prompt to dial the phone number of the selected point of interest entry. Thus such a navigation device may be used to perform the various aspects of the method described with regard to as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

The methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to floppy disks trademark cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBAL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

