---

title: Methods and apparatus to control information presented to process plant operators
abstract: Methods and apparatus to upgrade and control information presented to process plant operators are disclosed. A disclosed example method to control information presented to a process plant operator comprises presenting a first version of a process plant display, presenting a dynamic attention user interface when a selectable element of the first version of the process plant operator display is activated, wherein the dynamic attention user interface is to be used to adjust an importance of information presented in the first version of the process plant display, and presenting a second version of the process plant display based on a variable adjusted via the dynamic attention user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08392845&OS=08392845&RS=08392845
owner: Fisher-Rosemount Systems, Inc.
number: 08392845
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070904
---
This disclosure relates generally to process plants and more particularly to methods and apparatus to control information presented to process plant operators.

Distributed process control systems like those used in chemical petroleum and or other processes systems and or process plants typically include one or more process controllers communicatively coupled to one or more field devices via any of a variety of analog digital and or combined analog digital buses. In such systems and or processes field devices including for example valves valve positioners switches and or transmitters e.g. temperature pressure level and flow rate sensors are located within the process environment and perform process control alarm and or management functions such as opening or closing valves measuring process parameters etc. Process controllers which may also be located within the plant environment receive signals indicative of process measurements made by the field devices and or other information pertaining to the field devices. Based on for example the received signals the process controllers execute a controller application to realize any number and or type s of control modules software modules software sub systems routines and or software threads to initiate alarms make process control decisions generate control signals and or coordinate with other control modules and or function blocks performed by field devices such as HART and Foundation Fieldbus devices. The control modules in the controller s send the control signals over the communication lines to the field devices to control the operation of the process plant.

Information from the field devices and or the controller is usually made available over a data highway or communication network to one or more other hardware devices such as operator workstations personal computers data historians report generators centralized databases etc. Such devices are typically located in control rooms and or other locations remotely situated relative to the harsher plant environment. These hardware devices for example run applications that enable an operator to perform any of a variety of functions with respect to the process es of a process plant such as changing an operating state changing settings of the process control routine s modifying the operation of the control modules within the process controllers and or the field devices viewing the current state of the process es viewing alarms generated by field devices and or process controllers simulating the operation of the process es for the purpose of training personnel and or testing the process control software keeping and or updating a configuration database etc.

As an example the DeltaV digital automation system sold by Fisher Rosemount Systems Inc. an Emerson Process Management company supports multiple applications stored within and or executed by different devices located at potentially diverse locations within a process plant. A configuration application which resides in and or is executed by one or more operator workstations enables users to create and or change process control applications and or download process control applications via a data highway or communication network to dedicated distributed controllers. Typically these control applications are made up of communicatively coupled and or interconnected control modules software modules software sub systems routines software threads and or function blocks that perform functions within the control scheme e.g. process control and or alarm generation based on received inputs and or that provide outputs to other blocks within the control scheme. Each dedicated controller and in some cases field devices stores and or executes a control application that runs the control modules assigned to implement actual process control functionality.

The configuration application also allows a configuration engineer to create one or more displays e.g. a viewing application for use by operators maintenance personnel etc. of the process plant by selecting and or building display objects using for example a display creation application. An example viewing application displays data for a process plant operator and or enables the operator to change settings such as set points and or operating states with the process control routines. These displays are typically implemented on a system wide basis via one or more of the workstations and present preconfigured displays to the operator and or maintenance persons regarding the operating state s of the control system s and or the devices within the plant. Example displays take the form of alarming displays that receive and or display alarms generated by controllers or devices within the process plant control displays that indicate the operating state s of the controller s and other device s within the process plant maintenance displays that indicate the functional state of the device s and or equipment within the process plant etc.

Methods and apparatus to control information presented to process plant operators are disclosed. A disclosed example method to control information presented to a process plant operator includes presenting a first version of a process plant display presenting a dynamic attention user interface when a selectable element of the first version of the process plant operator display is activated wherein the dynamic attention user interface is to be used to adjust an importance of information presented in the first version of the process plant display and presenting a second version of the process plant display based on a variable adjusted via the dynamic attention user interface.

A disclosed example operator station apparatus includes a display an operator display module to present an operator application on the display a dynamic attention user interface to be presented on the display to obtain content filtering rules from an operator and a content filter module to adjust data presented by the operator application based on the importance of information parameters.

Today process manufacturing professionals including plant project operating and maintenance personnel are increasingly overwhelmed by the amount of information to sift through to intelligently make decisions. For example in a process control system it is common for thousands of alarms to be defined within the process control system to notify operators of the process plant of potential problems. Moreover there may be thousands or process control variables that may be set controlled viewed and or monitored by process plant personnel.

In general the examples apparatus methods and articles of manufacture described herein may be used to allow a process plant operator to easily and or dynamically adjust the prioritization of information competing for their attention. Today many process plant operator displays are pre configured and do not allow a process plant operator to tailor the display of information based upon personal experience personal preferences and or current conditions resulting in an overload of information presented to process plant operators and or potentially causing the operators to miss critical process plant conditions. While a process configuration engineer could conceivably design different process plant display applications for different process plant states and or conditions and or for individual and or groups of operators the implementation of such large numbers of display applications is expensive difficult to maintain and or otherwise burdensome and is not as flexible as the example apparatus methods and articles of manufactured described herein.

In particular the examples described herein comprise a dynamic attention user interface that allows each process plant operator and or a group of operators to prioritize order flag and or identify what information states status history alarm priorities alarm types alarms and or data are important i.e. so called pay attention items less important and or not important. The dynamic attention user interface allows an operator to prioritize process control system data and or information which is typically available in one or more repositories of information within a process control solution such as for example configuration data real time data process plant state process plant variables process plant set points alarms continuous history batch history event history alarm summary displays data analysis software alarm analysis software operator logs and or user actions. Moreover items to be prioritized may be based on calculations formulas and or other indirect methods.

An example dynamic attention user interface comprises an intuitive user interface that employs slider bars via which the importance of process control data and or information can be prioritized and or made persistent. In some examples entered priorities can be collected over time and then used to suggest other items to be prioritized based on each operator s current and or historical set of prioritized items. The items that appear in an operator s prioritized items list need not be pre configured and or fixed. An operator s prioritized list may be manually selectable and or controllable by each operator by another operator and or may be automatically adjusted configured and or populated. For example an operator may choose to more closely watch a particular piece of equipment e.g. if it has been acting up recently the operator may manually add and or remove items from the list the operator may be presented with a pre configured list of items and or items may be automatically and or dynamically added and or removed from the list based on the dynamics of the process plant.

One or more filtering rules specified and or provided by a process plant operator via the dynamic attention user interface may then be used to adjust what and or how information is presented by and or within an operator display application. The applied filtering rules can also be recorded in a data store such as an electronic operator log a system event log a dynamic attention database and or a dynamic attention log.

The example operator station of allows a process plant operator to review and or operate one or more operator display screens and or applications that allow the process plant operator to view process plant variables view process plant states view process plant conditions view process plant alarms and or to change process plant settings e.g. set points and or operating states clear alarms silence alarms etc. . Such screens and or applications are typically designed and or implemented by process configuration engineers. An example manner of implementing the example operator station of is described below in connection with . Example operator display applications that may be used to implement the example operator station are described below in connection with and .

The example operator station of includes and or implements a dynamic attention user interface e.g. the example dynamic attention user interface of to allow process plant operators to prioritize order flag and or identify what information alarms and or data are more important less important and or not important for a particular operator display. The dynamic attention user interface allows an operator to prioritize process automation system data and or information which is typically available in one or more repositories of information within an process control solution such as for example configuration real time data process plant state process plant variables process plant variable changes process plant state changes status historical period e.g. 15 minutes 1 hour 4 hours etc. alarm types e.g. device process hardware etc. alarm priorities new variables changed variables process plant set points alarms continuous history batch history event history alarm summary displays data analysis software alarm analysis software operator logs process deviations new alarms trends and or user actions. Moreover items to be prioritized may based on calculations formulas and or other indirect methods.

When one or more filtering rules are specified and or provided by a process plant operator via the dynamic attention user interface the example operator station of adjusts what and or how data and or information is presented by and or within a particular operator display application. In some examples the operator station stores applied filtering rules in a data store such as an electronic operator log a system event log a dynamic attention database and or a dynamic attention log. Additionally or alternatively the example operator station may collect priorities entered by operators and then use the collected information to suggest other items to be prioritized based on each operator s current and or historical set of pay attention items. The items that appear in an operator s list of prioritized items may be dynamic and thus selectable and or controllable by each operator and or may be automatically added and or removed from the list based on the dynamics of the process plant. Additionally or alternatively the items that appear in an operator s list of prioritized items need not be pre configured and or fixed. An operator s prioritized list may be manually selectable and or controllable by each operator by another operator and or may be automatically adjusted configured and or populated.

The example workstation of may be configured as an application station to perform one or more information technology applications user interactive applications and or communication applications. For example the application station may be configured to perform primarily process control related applications while another application station not shown may be configured to perform primarily communication applications that enable the process control system to communicate with other devices or systems using any desired communication media e.g. wireless hardwired etc. and protocols e.g. HTTP SOAP etc. . The example operator station and the example workstation of may be implemented using one or more workstations and or any other suitable computer systems and or processing systems. For example the operator station and or workstation could be implemented using single processor personal computers single or multi processor workstations etc.

The example LAN of may be implemented using any desired communication medium and protocol. For example the example LAN may be based on a hardwired and or wireless Ethernet communication scheme. However as will be readily appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art any other suitable communication medium s and or protocol s could be used. Further although a single LAN is illustrated in more than one LAN and or other alternative pieces of communication hardware may be used to provide redundant communication paths between the example systems of .

The example controller of is coupled to a plurality of smart field devices and via a digital data bus and an input output I O gateway . The smart field devices may be Fieldbus compliant valves actuators sensors etc. in which case the smart field devices communicate via the digital data bus using the well known Foundation Fieldbus protocol. Of course other types of smart field devices and communication protocols could be used instead. For example the smart field devices could instead be Profibus and or HART compliant devices that communicate via the data bus using the well known Profibus and HART communication protocols. Additional I O devices similar and or identical to the I O gateway may be coupled to the controller to enable additional groups of smart field devices which may be Foundation Fieldbus devices HART devices etc. to communicate with the controller . Such smart field devices may provide much more data and or information than non smart field devices and thus may contribute to the information overload problem s addressed by the methods and apparatus described herein.

In addition to the example smart field devices one or more non smart field devices and may be communicatively coupled to the example controller . The example non smart field devices and of may be for example conventional 4 20 milliamp mA or 0 10 volts direct current VDC devices that communicate with the controller via respective hardwired links.

The example controller of may be for example a DeltaV controller sold by Fisher Rosemount Systems Inc. an Emerson Process Management company. However any other controller could be used instead. Further while only one controller in shown in additional controllers and or process control platforms of any desired type and or combination of types could be coupled to the LAN . In any case the example controller performs one or more process control routines associated with the process control system that have been generated by a system engineer and or other system operator using the operator station and which have been downloaded to and or instantiated in the controller .

While illustrates an example process control system within which the methods and apparatus to control information presented to process plant operators described in greater detail below may be advantageously employed persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the methods and apparatus to control information presented to process plant operators described herein may if desired be advantageously employed in other process plants and or process control systems of greater or less complexity e.g. having more than one controller across more than one geographic location etc. than the illustrated example of .

To allow an operator to interact with the example processor the example operator station of includes any type of display . Example displays include but are not limited to a computer monitor a computer screen a television a mobile device e.g. a smart phone a Blackberry and or an iPhone etc. capable to display user interfaces and or applications implemented by the processor and or more generally the example operator station .

The example operating system of displays and or facilitates the display of application user interfaces e.g. any of the example user interfaces by and or at the example display . To facilitate operator interactions with applications implemented by the example operator station the example operating system implements an application programming interface API by which the example operator display module and or the example content filter module can define and or select a user interface and cause and or instruct the operating system to display the defined and or selected user interface . Example user interfaces are described below in connection with .

To present process plant operator displays and or applications the example operator station of includes the example operator display module . The example operator display module of collects data and or information from one or more process controllers e.g. the example controller of and or other elements of a process plant control system and uses the collected data and or information to create and or define a particular user interface e.g. either of the example interfaces of and or based on the state of the process plant and or a portion of the process plant selected by an operator. The created and or defined display is displayed at the example display by and or via the example operating system . The example operator display module also receives operator inputs via the user interface e.g. in response to the operator selecting adjusting and or operating user interface elements of the user interface and sends appropriate commands data and or information to the controller and or more generally the process control system .

When a user of a display provided by the operator display module indicates they desire to prioritize the display of operator data and or information e.g. by selecting an element and or graphic of the operator display the example operator display module presents a dynamic attention user interface e.g. the example interface of FIG. . The dynamic attention user interface may be displayed in addition to or instead of a previously displayed operator application.

To prioritize data and or information presented by the operator display module the example operator station of includes the example content filter module . Based on operator inputs provided via a dynamic attention user interface e.g. the example interface of the example content filter module of generates content filter rules that represent the relative priorities of data and or information to be displayed. For example if data associated with a particular process module is selected via the dynamic attention user interface as data to be ignored the content filter module blocks and or prevents the operator display module from receiving process control data and or information associated with that process module. Additionally or alternatively the content filter module can instruct e.g. via an API provided by the example operator display module how and or whether to display user interface elements of an operator application currently being executed by the operator display module . For example the operator display module can be instructed to highlight a particular user interface element and or graphic diminish in appearance e.g. gray out a particular user interface element and or graphic and or not display and or omit a particular user interface element and or graphic. When and or as instructed by the example content filter module the example operator display module updates applicable operator displays and or operator applications currently being displayed at the example display . Such an updated application and or display may include a user interface element and or graphic signifying that content filtering is currently active. In some examples prioritization selections made by one operator may be applied to displays and or applications presented to other operators. Further prioritization selections may be stored in for example an electronic operator log a system event log a dynamic attention database e.g. the example database described below and or a dynamic attention log.

In some examples if an operator attempts to disable the display of information data and or alarms associated with for example a potentially life threatening safety condition or an equipment damaging condition and or any configured programmed limit in the process plant e.g. a HIHI alarm and or a LOLO alarm the example operator display module and or the example content filter module may override the operator s inputs to ensure the continuing safe operation of the process plant.

To store data and or information used by the example content filter module the example operator station of includes a dynamic attention database . Using any type s and or numbers of database records fields and or entries the example dynamic attention database of stores data and or information used by the content filter module to for one or more operators control content filter record applied content filters and or to dynamically and or automatically suggest pay attention items. Example data and or information that may be stored in the example dynamic attention database includes but is not limited to user profiles e.g. names roles preferences areas of responsibility etc. rules to assist in the automatic and or dynamic creation of pay attention items historical and or current statistical data regarding pay attention items and or settings to facilitate the prediction of which pay attention information are be presented lists of each user s manually added data lists of manually added data for each operator station. The example dynamic attention database may be stored using any type s and or numbers of memory ies and or memory device s .

The example content filter module of can additionally or alternatively collect and or record current and or past content filter rule inputs e.g. data and or information received via a dynamic attention user interface and then use the collected inputs to provide suggested item prioritizations. For example when an operator initiates a dynamic attention user interface the content filter module can pre fill in suggested fields and or values based on historical prioritization selections made by the operator.

While an example manner of implementing the example operator station of has been illustrated in the data structures elements processes and devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example operating system the example operator display module the example user interface s the example content filter module and or more generally the example operator station of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Further still the example operator station may include additional elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated data structures elements processes and devices.

To display process data and or information the example user interface of includes any number of display user interface elements three of which are designated in with reference numerals and . The example display element displays the current level in the rightmost LIC TANK tank. Likewise the example display element displays the current level in the leftmost tank. The example display element indicates that additional information regarding tank LIC TANK is available for the operator.

To allow the operator to control the operator application the example user interface of includes one or more control user interface elements one of which is designated at reference numeral in . The example control element and or graphic of allows an operator to enable and or configure prioritization of data and or information displayed in the example user interface of . When selected the example control element causes the operator display module to display a dynamic attention user interface e.g. the example interface of .

To indicate whether the prioritization of display information and or data is applied to only the current operator display and or application or to other displays as well the example dynamic attention user interface of includes one or more check boxes one of which is designated at reference numeral . When the example check box is active e.g. contains a or X the prioritization slider associated with the check box is only applied to the current operator display and or application. If the example check box is not checked e.g. is blank and or empty the operator has the ability from the dynamic attention user interface to navigate to all other displays where this monitored item resides.

To indicate how long a prioritization is to be applied the example dynamic attention user interface of includes one or more text boxes one of which is designated at reference numeral . When the example text box is not blank the contents of the text box represent the amount of remaining time that the prioritization slider associated with the text box is to be applied to the operator display s . When the remaining time expires the prioritization of the associated element is no longer applied. When the example text box is blank the prioritization slider associated with the text box is to be indefinitely applied to the operator display s 

The example user interface of is a second version of the example user interface of after the example content filter module and or the example operator display module of have applied the prioritization of process control data and or information for LIC TANK. Compared to a display user interface element is grayed out indicating that the level of LIC TANK has a reduced priority and a display user interface element is now blank. To indicate that display prioritization is active the example control user interface element of is highlighted in .

The example process of begins with an operator station e.g. the example operator display module displaying a user interface e.g. the example user interface of block . If a user e.g. a process plant operator selects a control user interface element and or graphic e.g. the example element to provide data and or information display prioritization block the operator display module presents a dynamic attention user interface e.g. the example interface of block . When the user makes their prioritization inputs block the operator station e.g. the example content filter module applies any applicable safety overrides block . The content filter module then determines which elements of the operator display need to be modified and notifies the operator display module of the changes block . Control then returns to block to display the updated operator display.

The processor platform of the example of includes at least one general purpose programmable processor . The processor executes coded instructions and or present in main memory of the processor e.g. within a RAM and or a ROM . The processor may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core a processor and or a microcontroller. The processor may execute among other things the example process of to implement the example operator stations described herein. The processor is in communication with the main memory including a ROM and or the RAM via a bus . The RAM may be implemented by DRAM SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memories and may be controlled by a memory controller not shown .

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as a USB interface a Bluetooth interface an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc. One or more input devices and one or more output devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input devices and or output devices may be used to for example provide user interfaces to the example display of .

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. Such example are intended to be non limiting illustrative examples. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

