---

title: Adjustable cable hanger for securing cables externally
abstract: An apparatus and method suspends cables from the top and sides of a shipping and stowage container having separated block-shaped fittings with top and side openings. A cross bar with rounded support structure suspends the cables and extends past the block-shaped fittings. First twist-lock fittings are mounted on a first side of the cross bar in the same spaced-apart relationship as the openings on the sides of the separated block-shaped fittings. Bayonets in the twist-lock fittings can be inserted into the side and top openings and rotated to secure the apparatus to the block-shaped fittings. Rotatable end hangers support cables beyond the container. Second twist-lock fittings are mounted on a second side of the cross bar in the same spaced-apart relationship as the openings on the tops of the separated block-shaped fittings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07753319&OS=07753319&RS=07753319
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07753319
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071210
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention relates to cable hangers for suspending flexible cables from shipping and stowage containers. More particularly this invention is for a cable hanger readily coupled to preformed mounting blocks on shipping and stowage containers for suspending cables above a deck or walkway to reduce possible hazards and maintain reliable electrical hydraulic and or optical interconnections.

Containers for shipping goods are widely used in air sea and land transport vehicles for a multitude of different items. Large containers can efficiently keep many items together as a lot and provide a degree of protection during the haul. The containers can rest singly or be stacked on the deck or pallets and usually are arranged in holds and on the decks in accessible rows and columns having walkways for ventilation and for workmen. Large transport vehicles can carry many of the containers that can extend across considerable area in large holds or other spacious deck areas.

Most of the long haul shipping and stowage containers used by the great majority of commercial air and maritime commerce have evolved into a standard design. The standard established by ISO 1161 requirements by the International Organization for Standardization is for containers of standardized dimensions and ruggedness to promote efficiency and safety for air and maritime use. The ISO 1161 containers are robustly constructed with rigid side walls mounted on strong frameworks that have a heavy duty block shaped corner fitting at each of the containers eight corners. The corner fittings as well as the other parts of an ISO 1161 container can be made from steel aluminum or other tough material.

The block shaped corner fittings have elongated openings sized to receive appropriately dimensioned heavy duty rotatable bayonet portions of twist lock fittings. When a bayonet portion in inserted through an opening and into a corner fitting the inserted portion is manually rotated a partial turn via its attached small twist lock lever. This rotation of the inserted bayonet portion securely engages the twist lock fitting to the block shaped corner fitting and whatever is coupled to the other end of the twist lock fitting is thereby secured to the container. Individual containers can be securely stacked together by double ended twist lock fittings engaging abutting block shaped corner fittings or hoisting slings or other components can be secured to the containers via similar twist lock fittings. A considerable number of ISO 1161 corner fittings and interfacing twist lock fittings are commercially available by a number of well known suppliers such as TANDUMLOC Inc. 824 Highway 101 Havelock N.C. 28532 for example.

It is not uncommon to have a number of electrical hydraulic and or optical cables reaching across the storage areas of the containers. These cables provide for the numerous power and communication needs of the host vessel and in addition some of the cables might be used to supply electrical power or communications links with equipments in some of the containers during transit. Because of the tight time schedules of most on loading operations the cables have been loosely draped across the tops of the containers and passageways between them. These cables have been known to hang down into the walkways and obstruct or trip the crewmen and other workmen. The hanging or underfoot cables also could become damaged and create severe fire hazards with possible injuries and fatalities along with the interruption of their normal functions.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for a cable hanger for securely suspending cables externally to shipping containers to reduce the possibility of injury of personnel and interruption of electrical hydraulic and or communications functions.

The present invention provides an apparatus and method for suspending cables from a shipping and stowage container. The container has standardized separated block shaped fittings that are each provided with openings on the tops and sides. An elongate cross bar has a length to extend past the spaced apart fittings of the container and a rounded cable support structure is mounted on the elongate cross bar to support and suspend the cables from the container. A first pair of twist lock fittings is mounted on a first side of the elongate cross bar and the pair is in a spaced apart relationship of essentially the same distance as between the top openings or side openings of the separated block shaped fittings. Each of the first pair of twist lock fittings has an outwardly extending rotatable bayonet portion connected to a handle. The spaced apart relationship of the first pair of twist lock fittings permits the rotatable bayonet portions extending outwardly on each of the first pair of twist lock fittings to be inserted through the side or top openings on the separated block shaped fittings and permits rotation of each rotatable bayonet portion by its interconnected handle to securely engage each corner block fitting. A second pair of twist lock fittings is mounted on a second side of the elongate cross bar. The second pair of twist lock fittings is in a spaced apart relationship of essentially the same distance as between the top openings or side openings of the separated block shaped fittings. The twist lock fittings of the second pair each have an outwardly extending rotatable bayonet portion connected to a handle. The spaced apart relationship permits insertion of the bayonet portions of the second twist lock fittings through the top or side openings on the separated block shaped fittings and permits rotation of each rotatable bayonet portion by its interconnected handle to securely engage each block shaped fitting.

A pair of elongate end hangers that are shaped for slideably fitting within opposite ends of the cross bar each has a pin for engaging select holes in the cross bar to secure each elongate end hanger at a desired degree of longitudinal extension from the cross bar. A laterally extending guide portion at the end of each elongate end hanger has vertical keepers at opposite ends. Each laterally extending guide portion provides vertical support for cables and each vertical keeper retains cables on each laterally extending guide portion. Optionally the end hangers can be withdrawn from the cross bar rotated a quarter turn and reinserted and secured in the cross bar to allow top or side suspension of cables from the container.

An object of the invention is to provide a device for suspending at least one cable above a passageway.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device for suspending cables from a shipping container.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device for suspending cables above or to the side of a shipping container.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device that can be quickly and securely coupled to a shipping container to suspend one or more cables above a walkway and other areas around the container.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device readily connectable to the ends or sides of single or stacked shipping containers for suspending cables above peripheral areas.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device that can be quickly and securely coupled to a shipping container to suspend one or more cables to prevent their being trod upon or rolled over by equipment machinery.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device that can be quickly secured to a shipping container with standard mobilization interfaces and interfacing hardware to suspend cables from the top or the side around the container.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device that can be quickly secured to a shipping container to suspend one or more cables at different degrees of extension from the top or the side around the container.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Referring to cable hanger of the invention is shown mounted at the top of a shipping and stowage container . In accordance with the salient features cable hanger assures a suspended support of one or more cables that can be connected to equipment inside container a single one of which being depicted as cable A and or other cables one of which being depicted as cable B that extend from one side to the other of a storage area where container is located. Cables are thereby suspended over deck ground where storage area is located and above walkways around each shipping and stowage container .

Shipping and stowage container has a block shaped corner fitting at each of its eight corners. In accordance with ISO requirements corner fittings are fabricated from a tough material such as steel or aluminum having an elongated opening machined in each of their exposed faces that communicates with a hollow interior . Such corner fittings are in widespread commercial use in the container industry to allow interconnection with external equipments and or other containers. Examples of typical block shaped corner fittings are the weldable Models 243000C BL BR TL TR and 243000C SBL SBR STL STR marketed by Tandemloc Inc.

Referring also to cable hanger of the invention is designed to quickly and securely engage the sides or tops of corner fittings A and B although it could also engage any side by side pair of block shaped corner fittings on container . Cable hanger has an elongate cross bar that can have a hollow square cross sectional configuration like that shown or could have other cross sectional shapes such as circular elliptical etc. Cross bar is designed to meet the requirements of ISO 1161 so that it has sufficient length to be secured to the top or side openings of corner fittings A and B or other corner fittings with similar spatial separations on shipping and stowage container .

Cross bar has a pair of heavy duty twist lock fittings welded onto one of its sides at opposite end portions to allow cable hanger to engage the outside ones of openings on the sides of corner fittings A and B. Twist lock fittings of the type used in association with this invention to engage appropriately shaped corner fittings are in widespread commercial use to engage stacked containers or secure other external equipments. Exemplary typical twist lock fittings that could be selected for mounting on cross bar could be the Weldable Fastmount Model N2501BA 1PA 2PA 3PA PA Model 806000T 100 or Model S38000B IPA also marketed by Tandemloc Inc. Each of these typical twist lock fittings has a bayonet portion rotatable by a small handle to engage an apertured fixture such as the exemplary block shaped corner fittings Models 243000C BL BR TL TR and 243000C SBL SBR STL STR marketed by Tandemloc Inc. as mentioned above.

The pair of twist lock fittings are spaced apart essentially the same distance as are the same side facing openings in corner fittings A and B. This spacing permits an appropriately dimensioned heavy duty rotatable bayonet portion extending outwardly on each twist lack fitting to be inserted through aligned outer ones of elongate openings and into hollow interiors of corner block fittings A and B. After each bayonet portion has been inserted through an opening and into interior an operator rotates a small handle extending from each twist lock fitting a part of a revolution. Since each handle is connected to a separate rotatable bayonet portion that has been inserted into an opening each bayonet portion is correspondingly rotated a like amount to securely engage each corner fitting and secure cross bar of cable hanger to corner fitting .

Cross bar has an elongate end hanger at each end that has a square cross section or is otherwise suitably shaped for telescoping or slideably fitting within cross bar . Each end hanger can be pulled out of or retracted into cross bar and secured at a desired degree of longitudinal extension by a straight or tapered pin inserted through a hole in cross bar and selected a one of holes provided along at least part of the length in each end hanger . A laterally extending guide portion at the end of end hanger provides vertical support for supported cables . Vertical keepers at opposite ends of guide portion retain cables on end hanger . Another laterally extending guide portion is connected to another end hanger that is configured like the other end hanger but is not completely visible in the figures because it is in the fully retracted position and retained by an interlocking pin inside of and at the opposite end of cross bar . Guide portion on the retracted end hanger provides additional vertical support and guidance for supported cables . Vertical keepers at opposite ends of guide portion also help retain cables on cable hanger . If it is desired to hang cables over the walkway at the far side of container the retracted end hanger can be extended from cross bar and secured in a desired length of extension from cross bar by a pin inserted through aligned holes in the now extended end hanger and cross bar .

A series of rounded cable support structures are included along the length of cross bar to aid in the suspension of cables by cable hanger . Cable support structures each have an oblong rounded shape and a rounded continuous retaining lip to retain cables on cable hanger and to avoid creating any irregular surface that might abrade or otherwise impede sliding motion of any of cables that are placed to extend across them. The laterally extending guide portions and and vertical keepers and in cooperation with rounded cable support structures and retaining lips assure positive support and retention of cables to keep walkways and other trafficked areas free of potentially dangerous cables.

If cable hanger is desired to be mounted on the top openings of block shaped fittings on container cross bar with end hangers in place can be rotated ninety degrees to align and engage twist lock fittings with top openings of block shaped corner fittings A and B and or other like spaced block corner fittings . End hangers at opposite ends of cross bar can be withdrawn from cross bar rotated ninety degrees in the opposite direction of rotation as cross bar was rotated and reinserted in cross bar . Next pins are reinserted through aligned ones of holes extending through end hangers and holes at opposite ends of cross bar to secure the rotated end hangers . This feature allows cable hanger of the invention to have only one pair of twist lock fittings for selective engagement of side and top openings of any pair of appropriately spaced apart block shaped corner fittings .

Referring also to cable hanger of the invention is shown in a partially retracted position for securing cables externally in a top mounting configuration onto a shipping and stowage container . Cable hanger can be preferably made to have two twist lock fittings of the same design as described above welded or otherwise mounted on a different side than twist lock fittings in this case the bottom side of cross member . This configuration of cable hanger allows a workman to quickly and securely engage the tops of block shaped corner fittings A and B to support cables above container without any modification. In other words cable hanger of the invention has pairs of both twist lock fittings and to allow workmen to utilize a single standardized unmodified design for cable hanger for suspending cables at the side or over the top of container . Heavy duty twist lock fittings welded onto the bottom at the opposite end portions of cross member allow cable hanger to engage the outside ones of openings on the tops of corner fittings A and B. These twist lock fittings are also of the type described above that are in widespread commercial use.

The pair of twist lock fittings are also spaced apart essentially the same distance as are the same top facing openings in corner fittings A and B. This spacing permits quick secure engagement as described above with respect to engagement by twist lock fittings .

Because of the prearranged spacing of twist lock fittings and on cross bar cross bar can be secured to either the side or top of shipping and stowage container to keep cable support structures and guide portions and of cable hanger substantially horizontal. Each support structure of cable hanger is rounded to prevent over bending of the cable radius of supported cables and has a lip to retain cables on cable hanger . A retaining cord small line or other suitable means can be used to secure cables to cable hanger as shown in . Because cross bar can be attached to either the end or the top of shipping and stowage container it is possible to use cable hanger of the invention in areas where shipping and stowage containers are stacked or have a low overhead or in areas where the shipping and stowage containers are placed against each other or there is little space around the sides of the shipping and stowage containers.

End hangers can be inserted into cross bar which has appropriate cross sectional shapes that ensure that end hangers cannot rotate relative to cross bar . End hangers are designed to support cables beyond the corners of shipping and stowage container so that cables can be suspended in air over a clear space around shipping and stowage container . End hangers are secured in position to cross bar using a securing pin or other position securing feature to set the overall length of cable hanger of the invention. End hangers and guide portions and are designed to support the weight of cables keep them from falling off on either side via vertical keepers and and provide another location where cables can be secured to cable hanger of the invention using retaining cord small line or other means. End hangers can be removed when they are not required to be used such as when it is not necessary to suspend ends of cables away from shipping and stowage container .

Modifications and alternate embodiments of cable hanger of the invention may be adapted and differently configured to accommodate cables of different constituencies for many different operational conditions. All components of cable hanger can be made from a wide variety of tough non corrosive or corrosion resistant materials that will hold up in the harsh marine environment. In addition to the uncomplicated highly functional cable hanger described cable hanger of the invention could have different shapes sizes and materials to create other user friendly shapes that can bear up under more adverse conditions.

The disclosed components and their arrangements as disclosed herein all contribute to the novel features of this invention. It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

