---

title: Nonvolatile semiconductor memory using an adjustable threshold voltage transistor in a flip-flop
abstract: An object of this invention is to provide a rewritable nonvolatile memory cell that can have a wide reading margin, and can control both a word line and a bit line by changing the level of Vcc. As a solution, a flip-flop is formed by cross (loop) connect of inverters including memory transistors that can control a threshold voltage by charge injection into the side spacer of the transistors. In the case of writing data to one memory transistor, a high voltage is supplied to a source of the memory transistor through a source line and a high voltage is supplied to a gate of the memory transistor through a load transistor of the other side inverter. In the case of erasing the written data, a high voltage is supplied to the source of the memory transistor through the source line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07969780&OS=07969780&RS=07969780
owner: Genusion, Inc.
number: 07969780
owner_city: Hyogo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070711
---
This invention relates to electrically erasable and rewritable nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices and semiconductor devices therewith.

A low cost fuse memory device has been required for making redundancy of an incorporated SRAM due to increasing its capacity for tuning a driver such as an LCD driver individually after implementation and for enhancing user friendliness of personal identification information an ID code a decryption key or IC card etc. .

A fuse having a poly silicon or a wiring metal layer melted down by a laser or a current surge or a fuse having a gate insulator broken down by high voltage has been used as a fuse memory device formed in the standard logic CMOS process. However these fuses having the meltdown portion or the breakdown portion cannot be applied to the foregoing usage because these are not reprogrammable.

An electrically erasable and rewritable fuse of a nonvolatile device having a floating gate can be manufactured in the logic CMOS process. However additional mask steps over the standard logic CMOS process for manufacturing the floating gate does not worth the cost and a floating gate device manufactured in a standard CMOS process deteriorates in data retention due to a thinner insulator of a highly integrated circuit

U.S. Pat. No. 6 518 614 B1 and JPA2004 056095 show a nonvolatile memory device that is manufactured in the standard CMOS process and JPA2005 353106 shows a nonvolatile memory device without the floating gate manufactured without the additional mask steps.

 1 The differential between the threshold voltages is narrow. The differential between the threshold voltages corresponds to Vth Vth in the case of data 0 and to Vth Vth in the case of data 1. The raise of threshold voltage due to the hot carrier injection has a upper limit of the Vth max. The voltage differential becomes Vth max Vth 2 on condition that data 0 and 1 should be written once each. On condition that data should be rewritten N times the value Vth max Vth needs to be divided by 2N and the voltage differential becomes up to narrower Vth max Vth 2N.

 2 High voltage 7V and 5V is necessary to be applied to the word line WL and the bit lines BLT BLB which need to be controlled on a memory cell to memory cell basis at the time of writing operation. This means that a high voltage transistor is required as driver transistors of the word lines and ones of the bit lines and as column select transistors to select bit lines. Generally a high voltage optimized transistor works low performance on the operation voltage Vcc of 1.8V such as reading voltage to leads accessing delay problem. Sizing up transistors to improve the current drive performance lead to enlarging a chip area.

An object of this invention is to provide a rewritable nonvolatile memory devices and a rewritable semiconductor integrated circuit device that can have a wide reading margin and can control both a word line and a bit line by changing the level of Vcc.

 1 One of the present inventions is characterized by a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device comprising a memory transistor having a gate electrode a flip flop formed by two inverters cross connected to each other and two gate transistors connected to two nodes of the flip flop respectively wherein the inverter includes a load transistor and the memory transistor connected in series wherein the memory transistor is composed of a threshold voltage controllable transistor controlled by electron injection to the vicinity of the gate electrode of the memory transistor wherein the two gate transistors are connected to respective bit lines controlled between supply voltage Vcc and ground voltage individually wherein gate electrodes of the two gate transistor are connected to a common word line controlled between the supply voltage and the ground voltage wherein a source of the memory transistor and a source of the load transistor are connected to a high voltage supply line supplying a high voltage during a programming operation or an erase operation.

 2 One of the present inventions is characterized by a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device of above 1 wherein the inverter has a precharge transistor connected in parallel to the load transistor wherein the precharge transistor operates in an on off state independent of the load transistor by precharge control voltage.

 3 One of the present inventions is characterized by a method for determining a state of the nonvolatile semiconductor memory device of above 2 comprising the following steps of turning off the two memory transistors by raising source voltages of the two memory transistors applying a precharge voltage with a same voltage to the two memory transistors through the precharge transistor and reducing the source voltage of the two memory transistors synchronously.

A nonvolatile memory device and a semiconductor integrated circuit device therewith of the first embodiment will now be described with referent to through .

In the flip flop the inverter true side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the true state of the cell and the inverter bar side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the bar state of the cell. The junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeT and the junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeB. If nodeT has a high voltage and nodeB has a low voltage then 0 is written in the memory and if nodeT has a low voltage and nodeB has a high voltage then 1 is written in the memory.

In the each inverter bottom of the memory transistor i.e. a source of the memory transistor MCN MCN is connected to a source line SL top of the load transistor i.e. a source of the load transistor MP MP is connected to VPM line. In addition a well of each load transistor MP MP is connected to VPM line.

NodeT is connected to a bit line BLT BitLine True through a transfer gate MN and NodeB is connected to a bit line BLB BitLine Bar through a transfer gate MN. Each transfer gate MN MN is composed of an n type transistor and each gate is connected to a common word line WL.

In addition is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for writing data on a memory transistor MCN of the memory cell. is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for erasing data of the nonvolatile memory cell including the memory transistors MCN MCN. is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for reading data of a nonvolatile memory cell including the memory transistors MCN MCN.

As shown in and a p type well with 0.8 m in depth and doped with average boron concentration 2 10cmis formed in a surface area of a p type silicon substrate with electric resistivity 10 cm. The two transistors MCN and MCN are formed in the p type well isolated by trenches with 250 nm in depth. This figure shows one memory transistor MCN .

The memory transistor is an n channel type transistor. It comprises a drain formed next to one trench and a source formed next to another trench in the surface area of the p type well and comprises a drain extension formed in the vicinity of the drain . The drain and the source are doped with average arsenic concentration 1 10cmand the drain extension is doped with average arsenic concentration 5 10cm.

A 5 nm thick gate insulator layer and a 200 nm thick gate electrode of poly silicon layer doped with phosphorus concentration 2 10cmare formed on a channel region between the drain and the source on the surface of the p type well . Side spacers and S composed of a 50 nm thick insulator are formed on the drain and source at the side of the gate insulator and the gate electrode . The source side side spacer S contacts the channel region of the substrate because an extension area is not formed in the vicinity of the source .

A p type diffused layer with average boron concentration 1 10cmis formed in the area isolated from the foregoing memory transistor by a trench in the p type well area . The layer works an electrode for connecting this p type well to ground.

A threshold voltage of the memory transistor is raised by carrier injection into the source side side spacer S and as illustrated in the threshold voltage revert back to the initial state by drawing out the injected carrier from the side spacer S. Accordingly this memory transistor can record data without volatilization.

While the initial threshold voltage of the memory transistor is set at 1.2V the transistor is unstable due to an atypical structure. Therefore this memory transistor cannot be used solely in terms of reliability. The memory cell of this embodiment is formed with the flip flop as shown .

In programming operation is performed by applying 0V to a drain line VD and applying a positive voltage e.g. 6V not more than a breakdown voltage to a source line VS and a gate line VG to generate a channel hot electron HE and to inject it into the side spacer S. Electrons trapped by the channel hot electron injection lead to raising the threshold voltage and the memory transistor becomes a programmed state.

On the other hand in the case of writing data 1 the threshold voltage of the memory transistor MCN is raised which all conditions but applying Vcc to BLT and applying 0V to BLB are the same as those of writing data 0 .

6V is applied to both the gate nodeB of the transistor MCN and the drain the source line SL of the transistor MCN in the foregoing embodiment. Even a different power voltage can be applied to the gate and the drain. On the other hand as the same voltage is applied to VPM and VPN VPM and VPN can be connected to be applied a common signal.

As stated above the applied voltage condition and the voltage applying procedure of the programming operation shown in and the applied voltage condition and the voltage applying procedure of the erase operation shown in are designed so that the word line and the bit line that are controlled individually for each memory cell can perform at either 0V or Vcc in other words no high voltage is required to be applied to the word line or bit line. Thus a high breakdown voltage transistor is not required and a high performance transistor can be used in a word line control circuit and a bit line control circuit to speed up of reading operation.

The state of the nonvolatile memory cell reverts back to the state shown in by erase operation illustrated in and even if the threshold voltage is controlled under the condition shown in or .

As stated above memory transistors MCN MCN can be reduced back to Vth of the initial state from Vth of the programmed state. Thus enough voltage differential of the programmed side and the erased side can be secured even if data 0 or 1 is rewritten multiple times.

If data writing is not performed i.e. threshold voltages of both memory transistors MCN and MCN are low stored data of the 6 transistor nonvolatile memory cell of the first embodiment is unstable. By putting a circuit configuration of true side the memory transistor MCN and bar side the memory transistor MCN out of balance as shown in or stored data of the memory cell can be fixed to 0 or 1 even if threshold voltages of both memory transistors MCN and MCN are low.

A nonvolatile memory cell shown in comprises two load transistors MP and MP of different channel width. In this case with forming a channel width of the load transistor MP twice as wide as that of the load transistor MP ON resistance of the load transistor MP is reduced to half of the load transistor MP.

When the memory cell with this configuration is powered on under the condition of both memory transistors MCN and MCN being not programmed a voltage of nodeT raises faster than that of nodeB and the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into on state the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into off state in other words the data goes into fixed as 0 .

In addition a channel length instead of the channel width can be differentiated. Also either load transistor MP or MP can be changed its channel width or length. Moreover the memory transistor MCN or MCN can be changed its channel width or length.

A nonvolatile memory cell shown in comprises capacitors connected to the nodeT and the nodeB of the flip flop. NodeT is connected to a power supply line through a capacitor C and nodeB is connected to ground through a capacitor C. The capacitance of these capacitors is for example about 50 fF.

When the memory cell with the configuration shown in is powered on under the condition of both memory transistors MCN and MCN being not programmed a voltage of nodeT raises faster than that of nodeB and the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into on state the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into off state in other words the data is fixed as 0 .

Although the two capacitors are connected to nodeT and nodeB respectively in the embodiment shown in the circuit configuration of the nonvolatile memory cell can be asymmetric by connecting to either one of the two.

A nonvolatile memory device and a semiconductor integrated circuit device therewith of the second embodiment will now be described with referent to through .

A side edge of the memory transistor of each inverter i.e. a source of each memory transistor MCN MCN is connected to a source line SL. A side edge of a load transistor for the true side inverter i.e. a source of the load transistor MP is connected to VPST line and a side edge of a load transistor for the bar side inverter i.e. a source of the load transistor MP is connected to VPSB line.

In the flip flop the inverter true side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the true state of the cell and the inverter bar side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the bar state of the cell. The junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeT and the junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeB. If nodeT has a high voltage and nodeB has a low voltage then 0 is recorded in the memory and if nodeT has a low voltage and nodeB has a high voltage then 1 is recorded in the memory.

NodeT is connected to a bit line BLT BitLine True through a transfer gate MN and NodeB is connected to a bit line BLB BitLine Bar through a transfer gate MN. Each transfer gate MN MN is composed of an n type transistor and each gate is connected to a common word line WL.

In addition a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeT and VPST with the load transistor MP. Moreover a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeB and VPSB with the load transistor MP. The true side precharge line PRET is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP and the bar side precharge line PREB is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP. Furthermore each p type MOS transistor MP MP is formed in the same N well and a voltage of the N well is controlled by VPM signal.

In addition is a schematic diagram showing an applied voltage condition for writing data to a memory transistor MCN of the memory cell. is a schematic diagram showing an applied voltage condition for erasing data of the nonvolatile memory cell. is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for reading data of the nonvolatile memory cell.

As shown in a p type well with 0.8 m in depth and average boron concentrations 2 10cmis formed in a surface area of a p type silicon substrate with electric resistivity 10 cm. The two transistors MCN and MCN isolated by plurality of trenches for device isolation with 250 nm in depth are formed in the p type well . In this figure only one memory transistor MCN is shown.

The memory transistor is an n channel type transistor. It comprises a drain formed next to one trench and a source formed next to another trench in the surface area of the p type well and comprises a drain extension formed in the vicinity of the drain . The drain and the source are doped with average arsenic concentration 1 10cm and the drain extension is doped with average arsenic concentration 5 10cm.

A 5 nm thick gate insulator layer and a 200 nm thick gate electrode of poly silicon layer doped with phosphorus concentration 2 10cmare formed on a channel region between the drain and the source on the surface of the p type well . Side spacers and S composed of a 50 nm thick insulator are formed on the drain and source at the side of the gate insulator and the gate electrode . The source side side spacer S contacts the channel region of the substrate because an extension area is not formed in the vicinity of the source .

A p type diffused layer with average boron concentration 1 10cmis formed in the area isolated from the foregoing memory transistor by a trench in the p type well area . The layer works an electrode for connecting this p type well to ground.

A threshold voltage of the memory transistor is raised by carrier injection into the source side side spacer S. As illustrated in the threshold voltage revert back to the initial state by drawing out the injected carrier from the side spacer S. Accordingly this memory transistor can record data without volatilization.

While the initial threshold voltage of the memory transistor is set at 1.2V the transistor is unstable due to an atypical structure. Therefore this memory transistor cannot be used solely in terms of reliability. The memory cell of this embodiment is formed with the flip flop as shown .

In programming operation is performed by applying 0V to a drain line VD and applying a positive voltage e.g. 6V not more than a breakdown voltage to a source line VS and a gate line VG to generate a channel hot electron HE and to inject it into the side spacer S. Electrons trapped by the channel hot electron injection lead to raising the threshold voltage and the memory transistor becomes a programmed state.

On the other hand in the case of writing data 1 the threshold voltage of the memory transistor MCN is raised which all conditions but applying Vcc to BLT and applying 0V to BLB are the same as those of writing data 0 .

6V is applied to both the gate nodeB of the transistor MCN and the drain the source line SL of the transistor MCN in the foregoing embodiment. Even a different power voltage can be applied to the gate and the drain. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal as the same voltage is applied to VPSB and VPST VPSB and VPST can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. VPS signal as the writing procedure performs properly when 0V is applied to VPM VPM and VPS can be connected to be applied a common signal.

As stated above the voltage condition of the programming operation shown in and the voltage condition of the erase operation shown in are designed so that the word line and the bit line that are necessary to be controlled individually for each memory cell can perform at either 0V or Vcc in other words no high voltage is required to be applied to the word line or bit line. Thus a high breakdown voltage transistor is not required and a high performance transistor can be used in a word line control circuit and a bit line control circuit to speed up of reading operation.

The state of the nonvolatile memory cell reverts back to the state shown in by erase operation illustrated in and even if the threshold voltage is controlled under the condition shown in or .

As stated above memory transistors MCN MCN can be reduced back to Vth of the initial state from Vth of the programmed state. Thus enough voltage differential of the programmed side and the erased side can be secured even if data 0 or 1 is rewritten multiple times.

A programming operation shown in and makes it possible to write data 1 or 0 to the memory cell by writing to either the memory transistor MCN or MCN. In the case that both threshold voltages of the memory transistors MCN and MCN are Vth of the initial state i.e. a state of no data setting the data of the memory cell is unstable. However the data of the nonvolatile memory cell of the initial state can be fixed at either 1 or 0 by applying voltage by the following procedure.

The procedure shown in is as follows. This procedure is preformed under the condition of setting a word line WL and bit lines BLT and BLB at 0V. To begin with the memory transistors MCN and MCN are made to turn off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t. Then reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t leads to power on of the precharge transistors MP and MP. At the same time true side precharge voltage VPST is reduced by V e.g. 0.2V which is much lower than Vth Vth. Therefore precharge voltage of nodeT becomes Vcc V and precharge voltage of nodeB becomes Vcc and the voltage between the source and the drain of the memory transistor MCN is V higher than the voltage between the source and the drain of the memory transistor MCN. Consequently an apparent threshold voltage of the memory transistor MCN can be V higher.

Voltage of PRET PREB reverts back to Vcc at the time t and the source voltage SL is started to reduce gradually to 0V at the time t. At this time the flip flop data is fixed at 1 in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 because voltage of nodeT is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeB becomes Vcc V by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN. On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is 0 the flip flop data is fixed at 0 because voltage of nodeB is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeT becomes Vcc by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN.

Moreover in the case that the data of the memory cell is indetermination i.e. both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth the flip flop data is fixed at 1 nodeT is reduced to 0V and nodeB becomes Vcc V by MCN turning on instead of MCN because the threshold voltage of MCN appears V lower than that of MCN.

The voltage to take into account incipient fluctuation of threshold voltage of the transistor is appropriate for the V for example 0.2V. It is because most of memory cells that both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth have not written data yet and memory transistor MCN MCN are not deteriorated by writing data.

The voltage applying procedure shown in is for applying voltage to fix the initial data of the memory cell at 1 . On the other hand the initial data of the memory cell can be fixed at 0 by V reduction of the VPSB voltage instead of that of VPST in source voltage control of the p type MOS transistor. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal .

In the case of the memory array including memory cells written data as well as those of the initial state applying the procedure only to memory cell of the initial state individually the data of the memory cell can be fixed at 1 or 0 . On the other hand in the case of the memory array including only memory cells of the initial state applying the procedure to the entire memory cell the data of the memory cell can be fixed at 1 or 0 . The following description shows the procedure to fix the data of the memory cell of the initial state at 1 .

This procedure is preformed under the condition that a word line WL and bit lines BLT BLB are set at 0V. To begin with MCN and MCN is turned off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t. Precharge control signals PREB PRET and the source voltage VPST of the precharge transistor MP is reduced from Vcc to 0V at the time t thus nodeB is charged to Vcc by the precharge transistor MP and nodeT is discharged through the precharge transistor MP. The voltage of PREB and PRET is raised back to Vcc at the time t and the voltage of SL is reduced back to 0V from Vcc then MCN applied higher gate voltage turns on instead of MCN thus nodeT is reduced to 0V under keeping the voltage of nodeB at Vcc and the flip flop data is fixed at 1 .

The voltage applying procedure shown in is for fixing the data of the memory cell at 1 . On the other hand the initial data of the memory cell can be fixed at 0 . By reducing the source voltage VPSB of the precharge transistor MP from Vcc to 0V instead of the source voltage VPST of the precharge transistor MP nodeB becomes 0V and the data is fixed at 0 . On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal .

The nonvolatile memory cell of the initial state can be used as a fuse by fixing the data at 1 by applying the procedure shown in or . The data 1 corresponds to a state of the fuse before burning it out.

The voltage applying procedure for data fixing shown in is a methods that can fix the data of the memory cell at 1 even if the memory array includes a memory cell of the initial state i.e. a memory cell that each memory transistor MCN MCN is in the initial state the threshold voltage Vth . On the other hand voltage applying procedures shown in can be applied in the case of no memory cell of the initial state in the memory array or no need to care about unstable data of the memory cell of the initial state. This procedure does not cause the V reduction of the voltage differential for fixing cf. as the procedure shown in .

The procedure shown in is as follows. Under the condition that a word line WL and bit lines BLT and BLB are set at 0V and VPST VPSB and VPM are set at Vcc the memory transistors MCN and MCN are turned off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t then the precharge transistors MP and MP are turned on state by reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t and this gives nodeT and nodeB to be precharged up to Vcc. To finish the precharge voltage of PRET PREB is raised back to Vcc at the time t and then the source voltage SL starts to reduce gradually to 0V at the time t. At this time MCN turns on state instead of MCN in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 in another words the threshold voltage of MCN is lower than that of MCN thus nodeT is reduced to 0V and nodeB becomes Vcc which means that the flip flop data is fixed at 1 . On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is 0 MCN turns on state instead of MCN thus nodeB is reduced to 0V and nodeT becomes Vcc which means that the flip flop data is fixed at 0 . On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal as the same voltage is applied to VPSB and VPST VPSB and VPST can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. VPS signal as the writing procedure performs properly when 0V is applied to VPM VPM and VPS can be connected to be applied a common signal.

The procedure shown in is as follows. Under the condition of setting a word line WL and bit lines BLT and BLB at 0V VPST VPSB and VPM at Vcc and fixing a source voltage SL at 0V the precharge transistors MP and MP are turns on state to precharge nodeT and nodeB by reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t. The precharge voltages of nodeT and nodeB becomes stable when their respective DC currents of a path of MP MP and MCN and a path of MP MP and MCN becomes constant. At this time the voltage of nodeT is lower than that of nodeB in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 in another words the threshold voltage of MCN is lower than that of MCN this is because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN. The flip flop data is fixed at 1 after finishing the precharge at the time t. On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is data 0 the voltage of nodeB becomes lower than that of nodeT and the flip flop data is fixed at 1 after finishing the precharge at the time t because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal as the same voltage is applied to VPSB and VPST VPSB and VPST can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. VPS signal as the writing procedure performs properly when 0V is applied to VPM VPM and VPS can be connected to be applied a common signal.

The procedure for fixing data shown in has a disadvantage in terms of consumption of current compared to that shown in because the DC penetration current flows in the flip flop at the time of precharge. However that shown in has an advantage in terms of controllability than that shown in because the source lines SLT and SVB can be controlled under fixing at 0V.

The procedure shown in is as follows. The feature of this procedure for fixing data is that precharge voltage for nodeT and nodeB is supplied from bit lines. NodeT and nodeB are precharged to Vcc Vthn through a transfer gate MN or MN by the bit line BLT or BLB that is charged up to Vcc due to fixing PRET and PREB at Vcc as well as setting a word line WL the bit lines BLT and BLB at Vcc and setting VPST and VPSB at 0V to cut off MP through MP. Here Vthn is threshold voltage of MP and MP. NodeT and nodeB are set floating state by reducing the voltage of the word line WL from Vcc to 0V at the time t then the flip flop data is fixed by the discharge differential from MCN and MCN. In the case of data 1 the voltage of nodeT becomes lower than that of nodeB because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the nonvolatile memory cell is fixed at 1 after raising voltage of VPST and VPSB from 0V to Vcc at the time t. On the other hand in the case of data 0 the voltage of nodeB becomes lower than that of nodeT because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the nonvolatile memory cell is fixed at 0 after raising the voltage of VPST and VPSB from 0V to Vcc at the time t. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal as the same voltage is applied to VPSB and VPST VPSB and VPST can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. VPS signal .

If data writing of the VPS separating type 8 transistor configuration of the second embodiment is not performed i.e. the threshold voltage of both memory transistors MCN MCN is low stored data of the nonvolatile memory cell by data fixing procedure shown in through is unstable. By putting a circuit configuration of true side the memory transistor MCN and bar side the memory transistor MCN out of balance as shown in or stored data of the memory cell can be fixed to 0 or 1 even if threshold voltages of both memory transistors MCN and MCN are low.

A nonvolatile memory cell shown in comprises two load transistors MP and MP of different channel width. In this case with forming a channel width of the load transistor MP twice as wide as that of the load transistor MP ON resistance of the load transistor MP is reduced to half of the load transistor MP.

When the memory cell with this configuration is powered on under the condition of both memory transistors MCN and MCN being not programmed a voltage of nodeT raises faster than that of nodeB and the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into on state the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into off state in other words the data goes into fixed as 0 .

In addition a channel length instead of the channel width can be differentiated. Also either load transistor MP or MP can be changed its channel width or length. Moreover the memory transistor MCN or MCN can be changed its channel width or length.

A nonvolatile memory cell shown in comprises capacitors connected to the nodeT and the nodeB of the flip flop. NodeT is connected to a power supply line through a capacitor C and nodeB is connected to ground through a capacitor C. The capacitance of these capacitors is for example about 50 fF.

When the memory cell with the configuration shown in is powered on under the condition of both memory transistors MCN and MCN being not programmed a voltage of nodeT raises faster than that of nodeB and the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into on state the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into off state in other words the data is fixed as 0 .

Although the two capacitors are connected to nodeT and nodeB respectively in the embodiment shown in the circuit configuration of the nonvolatile memory cell can be asymmetric by connecting to either one of the two.

Additionally when the nonvolatile memory cell with the VPS separating type 8 transistor configuration is used the configuration of voltage shown in makes it possible to measure the threshold voltage of the memory transistor. This method enables to measure at least one of the values including the incipient threshold voltage fluctuation a variation of the threshold voltage in the time of programming operation or erase operation and a retention characteristic of the threshold voltage under high temperature after rewriting.

The load transistor MP becomes power on and supplies nodeB with an voltage in the case that VPSB voltage is not less than 0.5V Vthp because the gate voltage nodeT is set at 0.5V. On the other hand the load transistor MP becomes power on and supplies nodeB with an voltage in the case that VPSB voltage is not less than Vthp because the gate voltage PREB is set at 0V. Here Vthp is the threshold voltage of the p type MOS transistor shown as MP MP and the threshold voltage required gate voltage for a certain current flow of MCN can be measured on condition of not less than the threshold voltage. About 0.7V is the threshold voltage for a transistor by a standard CMOS process. The gate voltage nodeT of MCN should be power off by setting nodeT at 0.5V so as not to cause reduction of the gate voltage applied CN by leak current in MCN.

In addition although the precharge line is divided into two lines PRET PREB if this measurement is not performed the precharge line can be shared by the true side and the bar side.

A nonvolatile memory device and a semiconductor integrated circuit device therewith of the third embodiment will now be described with referent to through .

A side edge of the memory transistor of the true side inverter i.e. a source of the memory transistor MCN is connected to a source line SLT. A side edge of the memory transistor of the bar side inverter i.e. a source of the memory transistor MCN is connected to a bar side source line SLB. In addition side edges of the load transistor of both inverters i.e. sources of load transistors MP and MP are connected to VPS line.

In the flip flop the inverter true side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the true state of the cell and the inverter bar side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the bar state of the cell. The junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeT and the junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeB. If nodeT has a high voltage and nodeB has a low voltage then 0 is written in the memory and if nodeT has a low voltage and nodeB has a high voltage then 1 is recorded in the memory.

NodeT is connected to a bit line BLT BitLine True through a transfer gate MN and NodeB is connected to a bit line BLB BitLine Bar through a transfer gate MN. Each transfer gate MN MN is composed of an n type transistor and each gate is connected to a common word line WL.

In addition a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeT and VPS with the load transistor MP. Moreover a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeB and VPS with the load transistor MP. The true side precharge line PRET is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP and the bar side precharge line PREB is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP. Furthermore each p type MOS transistor MP MP is formed in the same N well and a voltage of the N well is controlled by VPM signal.

In addition is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for writing data on a memory transistor MCN of the memory cell. is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for erasing data of the nonvolatile memory cell. is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure condition for reading data of the nonvolatile memory cell.

As shown in a p type well with 0.8 m in depth and average boron concentrations 2 10cmis formed in a surface area of a p type silicon substrate with electric resistivity 10 cm. The two transistors MCN and MCN isolated by plurality of trenches for device isolation with 250 nm in depth are formed in the p type well . In this figure only one memory transistor MCN is shown.

The memory transistor is an n channel type transistor. It comprises a drain formed next to one trench and a source formed next to another trench in the surface area of the p type well and comprises a drain extension formed in the vicinity of the drain . The drain and the source are doped with average arsenic concentration 1 10cm and the drain extension is doped with average arsenic concentration 5 10cm.

A 5 nm thick gate insulator layer and a 200 nm thick gate electrode of poly silicon layer doped with phosphorus concentration 2 10cmare formed on a channel region between the drain and the source on the surface of the p type well . Side spacers and S composed of a 50 nm thick insulator are formed on the drain and source at the side of the gate insulator and the gate electrode . The source side side spacer S contacts the channel region of the substrate because an extension area is not formed in the vicinity of the source .

A p type diffused layer with average boron concentration 1 10cmis formed in the area isolated from the foregoing memory transistor by a trench in the p type well area . The layer works an electrode for connecting this p type well to ground.

A threshold voltage of the memory transistor is raised by carrier injection into the source side side spacer S and as illustrated in the threshold voltage revert back to the initial state by drawing out the injected carrier from the side spacer S. Accordingly this memory transistor can record data without volatilization.

While the initial threshold voltage of the memory transistor is set at 1.2V the transistor is unstable due to an atypical structure. Therefore this memory transistor cannot be used solely in terms of reliability. The memory cell of this embodiment is formed with the flip flop as shown .

In programming operation is performed by applying 0V to a drain line VD and applying a positive voltage e.g. 6V not more than a breakdown voltage to a source line VS and a gate line VG to generate a channel hot electron HE and to inject it into the side spacer S. Electrons trapped by the channel hot electron injection lead to raising the threshold voltage and the memory transistor becomes a programmed state.

On the other hand in the case of writing data 1 the threshold voltage of the memory transistor MCN is raised which all conditions but applying Vcc to BLT and applying 0V to BLB are the same as those of writing data 0 .

6V is applied to both the gate nodeB of the transistor MCN and the drain the source line SL of the transistor MCN in the foregoing embodiment. Even a different power voltage can be applied to the gate and the drain. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal as the same voltage is applied to SLB and SLT SLB and SLT can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. SL signal as the same voltage is applied to VPS and VPM VPS and VPM can be connected to be applied a common signal.

As stated above the voltage condition of the programming operation shown in and the voltage condition of the erase operation shown in are designed so that the word line and the bit line that are necessary to be controlled individually for each memory cell can perform at either 0V or Vcc in other words no high voltage is required to be applied to the word line or bit line. Thus a high breakdown voltage transistor is not required and a high performance transistor can be used in a word line control circuit and a bit line control circuit to speed up of reading operation.

The state of the nonvolatile memory cell reverts back to the state shown in by erase operation illustrated in and even if the threshold voltage is controlled under the condition shown in or .

As stated above memory transistors MCN MCN can be reduced back to Vth of the initial state from Vth of the programmed state. Thus enough voltage differential of the programmed side and the erased side can be secured even if data 0 or 1 is rewritten multiple times.

A programming operation shown in and makes it possible to write data 1 or 0 to the memory cell by writing to either the memory transistor MCN or MCN. In the case that both threshold voltages of the memory transistors MCN and MCN are Vth of the initial state i.e. a state of no data setting the data of the memory cell is unstable. However the data of the nonvolatile memory cell of the initial state can be fixed at either 1 or 0 by applying voltage by the following procedure.

The procedure shown in is as follows. This procedure is preformed under the condition of setting a word line WL and bit lines BLT and BLB at 0V. To begin with the memory transistors MCN and MCN are made to turn off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t.

Then reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t leads to power on of the precharge transistors MP and MP. At the same time Vcc is applied to nodeT and nodeB.

Voltage of PRET PREB reverts back to Vcc at the time t and the source voltage SLT is started to reduce gradually to 0V at the time t. The source voltage of SLB is started to raise gradually to 0V at the time t. At this time The voltages SLB and SLT are controlled so as to satisfy the formula SLB SLT Vs e.g. Vs 0.2V . Consequently the voltage between the source and the drain of the memory transistor MCN is controlled to be V higher than that of the memory transistor MCN thus the threshold voltage of MCN appears Vs higher than that of MCN.

At this time the flip flop data is fixed at 1 in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 because voltage of nodeT is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeB becomes Vcc by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN. On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is 0 the flip flop data is fixed at 0 because voltage of nodeB is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeT becomes Vcc by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN.

Moreover in the case that the data of the memory cell is indetermination i.e. both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth the flip flop data fixed at 1 nodeT is reduced to 0V and nodeB becomes Vcc by MCN turning on instead of MCN because the threshold voltage of MCN appears Vs lower than that of MCN.

The voltage to take into account incipient fluctuation of threshold voltage of the transistor is appropriate for the V for example 0.2V. It is because most of memory cells that both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth have not written data yet and memory transistor MCN MCN are not deteriorated by writing data.

The voltage applying procedure shown in is for applying voltage to fix the initial data of the memory cell at 1 . On the other hand the initial data of the memory cell can be fixed at 0 by reversing the relationship between SLT and SLB in terms of the control of the source voltage of the memory transistor. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal . Moreover as the same voltage is applied to VPS and VPM VPS and VPM can be connected to be applied a common signal.

In the case of the memory array including memory cells written data as well as those of the initial state applying the procedure only to memory cell of the initial state individually the data of the memory cell can be fixed at 1 or 0 . On the other hand in the case of the memory array including only memory cells of the initial state applying the procedure to the entire memory cell the data of the memory cell can be fixed at 1 or 0 . The following description shows the procedure to fix the data of the memory cell of the initial state at 1 .

This procedure is preformed under the condition that a word line WL and bit lines BLT BLB are set at 0V and that VPS VPM are set at Vcc. To begin with MCN is turned off state by raising a source voltage SLB from 0V to Vcc at the time t. Precharge control signals PREB is reduced from Vcc to 0V at the time t thus nodeB is charged to Vcc by the precharge transistor MP The voltage of PREB is raised back to Vcc at the time t and the voltage of SLB is reduced back to 0V from Vcc then MCN applied higher gate voltage turns on instead of MCN thus nodeT is reduced to 0V under keeping the voltage of nodeB at Vcc and the flip flop data is fixed at 1 .

The voltage applying procedure shown in is for fixing the data of the memory cell at 1 . On the other hand the initial data of the memory cell can be fixed at 0 . By reducing the source voltage VPSB of the source voltage SLT from Vcc to 0V instead of the source voltage SLB as well as by reducing the gate voltage PRET of the precharge transistor MP from Vcc to 0V instead of the gate voltage PREB of the precharge transistor MP nodeB becomes 0V and the data is fixed at 0 . As the same voltage is applied to VPS and VPM VPS and VPM can be connected to be applied a common signal.

The nonvolatile memory cell of the initial state can be used as a fuse by fixing the data at 1 by applying the procedure shown in or . The data 1 corresponds to a state of the fuse before burning it out.

The voltage applying procedure for data fixing shown in is a methods that can fix the data of the memory cell at 1 even if the memory array includes a memory cell of the initial state i.e. a memory cell that each memory transistor MCN MCN is in the initial state the threshold voltage Vth . On the other hand voltage applying procedures shown in can be applied in the case of no memory cell of the initial state in the memory array or no need to care about unstable data of the memory cell of the initial state. This procedure does not cause the Vs reduction of the voltage differential for fixing cf. as the procedure shown in .

The procedure shown in is as follows. Under the condition that a word line WL and bit lines BLT and BLB are set at 0V and VPS and VPM are set at Vcc the memory transistors MCN and MCN are turned off state by raising source voltages SLT and SLB from 0V to Vcc at the time t then the precharge transistors MP and MP are turned on state by reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t and this gives nodeT and nodeB to be precharged up to Vcc. To finish the precharge voltage of PRET PREB is raised back to Vcc at the time t and then the source voltage SL starts to reduce gradually to 0V at the time t. At this time MCN turns on state instead of MCN in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 in another words the threshold voltage of MCN is lower than that of MCN thus nodeT is reduced to 0V and nodeB becomes Vcc which means that the flip flop data is fixed at 1 . On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is 0 MCN turns on state instead of MCN thus nodeB is reduced to 0V and nodeT becomes Vcc which means that the flip flop data is fixed at 0 . On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal as the same voltage is applied to SLB and SLT SLB and SLT can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. SL signal as the same voltage is applied to VPS and VPM VPS and VPM and SLT can be connected to be applied a common signal.

The procedure shown in is as follows. Under the condition of setting a word line WL and bit lines BLT and BLB at 0V VPS and VPM at Vcc and fixing a source voltage SL at 0V the precharge transistors MP and MP are turns on state to precharge nodeT and nodeB by reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t. The precharge voltages of nodeT and nodeB becomes stable when their respective DC currents of a path of MP MP and MCN and a path of MP MP and MCN becomes constant. At this time the voltage of nodeT is lower than that of nodeB in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 in another words the threshold voltage of MCN is lower than that of MCN this is because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN. The flip flop data is fixed at 1 after finishing the precharge at the time t. On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is data 0 the voltage of nodeB becomes lower than that of nodeT and the flip flop data is fixed at 1 after finishing the precharge at the time t because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal as the same voltage is applied to SLB and SLT SLB and SLT can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. SL signal as the same voltage is applied to VPS and VPM VPS and VPM and SLT can be connected to be applied a common signal.

The procedure for fixing data shown in has a disadvantage in terms of consumption of current compared to that shown in because the DC penetration current flows in the flip flop at the time of precharge. However that shown in has an advantage in terms of controllability than that shown in because the source lines SLT and SVB can be controlled under fixing at 0V.

The procedure shown in is as follows. The feature of this procedure for fixing data is that precharge voltage for nodeT and nodeB is supplied from bit lines. NodeT and nodeB are precharged to Vcc Vthn through a transfer gate MN or MN by the bit line BLT or BLB that is charged up to Vcc due to fixing PRET and PREB at Vcc as well as setting a word line WL the bit lines BLT and BLB at Vcc and setting VPS at 0V to cut off MP through Mp. Here Vthn is threshold voltage of MP and MP. NodeT and nodeB are set floating state by reducing the voltage of the word line WL from Vcc to 0V at the time to then the flip flop data is fixed by the discharge differential from MCN and MCN. In the case of data 1 the voltage of nodeT becomes lower than that of nodeB because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the nonvolatile memory cell is fixed at 1 after raising voltage of VPS from 0V to Vcc at the time t. On the other hand in the case of data 0 the voltage of nodeB becomes lower than that of nodeT because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the nonvolatile memory cell is fixed at 0 after raising the voltage of VPS from 0V to Vcc at the time t. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to SLB and SLT SLB and SLT can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. SL signal as the same voltage is applied to VPS and VPM VPS and VPM and SLT can be connected to be applied a common signal.

IF data writing of the SL separating type 8 transistor configuration of the third embodiment is not performed i.e. the threshold voltage of both memory transistors MCN MCN is low stored data of the nonvolatile memory cell by data fixing procedure shown in through is unstable. By putting a circuit configuration of true side the memory transistor MCN and bar side the memory transistor MCN out of balance as shown in or stored data of the memory cell can be fixed to 0 or 1 even if threshold voltages of both memory transistors MCN and MCN are low.

A nonvolatile memory cell shown in comprises two load transistors MP and MP of different channel width. In this case with forming a channel width of the load transistor MP twice as wide as that of the load transistor MP ON resistance of the load transistor MP is reduced to half of the load transistor MP.

When the memory cell with this configuration is powered on under the condition of both memory transistors MCN and MCN being not programmed a voltage of nodeT raises faster than that of nodeB and the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into on state the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into off state in other words the data goes into fixed as 0 .

In addition a channel length instead of the channel width can be differentiated. Also either load transistor MP or MP can be changed its channel width or length. Moreover the memory transistor MCN or MCN can be changed its channel width or length.

A nonvolatile memory cell shown in comprises capacitors connected to the nodeT and the nodeB of the flip flop. NodeT is connected to a power supply line through a capacitor C and nodeB is connected to ground through a capacitor C. The capacitance of these capacitors is for example about 50 fF.

When the memory cell with the configuration shown in is powered on under the condition of both memory transistors MCN and MCN being not programmed a voltage of nodeT raises faster than that of nodeB and the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into on state the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN go into off state in other words the data is fixed as 0 .

Although the two capacitors are connected to nodeT and nodeB respectively in the embodiment shown in the circuit configuration of the nonvolatile memory cell can be asymmetric by connecting to either one of the two.

Additionally when the nonvolatile memory cell with the SL separating type 8 transistor configuration is used the configuration of voltage shown in makes it possible to measure the threshold voltage of the memory transistor. This method enables to measure at least one of the values including the incipient threshold voltage fluctuation a variation of the threshold voltage in the time of programming operation or erase operation and a retention characteristic of the threshold voltage under high temperature after rewriting.

The load transistor MP becomes power on and supplies nodeB with an voltage in the case that VPS voltage is not less than 1V Vthp because the gate voltage nodeT is set at 1V. On the other hand The load transistor MP becomes power on and supplies nodeB with an voltage in the case that VPS voltage is not less than Vthp because the gate voltage PREB is set at 0V. Here Vthp is the threshold voltage of the p type MOS transistor shown as MP MP and about 0.7V is the threshold voltage for a transistor by a conventional CMOS process. Therefore the threshold voltage required gate voltage for a certain current flow of MCN can be measured on condition of not less than the threshold voltage. The gate voltage nodeT of MCN should be power off by setting the source voltage SLB of the MCN at MAP voltage as well as setting the bit lines at floating state so as not to cause unwanted leak pass in MCN.

In addition although the precharge line is divided into two lines PRET PREB if this measurement is not performed the precharge line can be shared by the true side and the bar side.

In addition as shown in VPS line and the source line SL are divided in this layout so as to be true state and bar state respectively and the VPS separating type of the second embodiment or the SL separating type of the third embodiment can be configured by shorting sharing either one of the two. As just described by adopting the layout in only the change of the third metal wiring can produce a nonvolatile semiconductor memory cell of either the VPS separating type of the second embodiment or the SL separating type of the third embodiment with a common process until the second metal wiring.

A nonvolatile memory device and a semiconductor integrated circuit device therewith of the fourth embodiment will now be described with referent to through .

The memory cell has a static latch type flip flop formed by connecting an inverter true side inverter formed by series connection of a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MCN and an inverter bar side inverter formed by series connection of a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MCN. The p type MOS transistors MP and MP are referred to as load transistors and n type MOS transistors MCN and MCN are referred to as memory transistors. The memory transistors MCN and MCN can be injected and erased electrons in a side wall of a gate as illustrated in and after . The threshold voltage of the memory transistors MCN and MCN are changed without volatilization thus the memory transistors MCN and MCN perform as nonvolatile device.

This memory cell has further an analog switch between a p type transistor MP and an n type transistor MCN comprising a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MN. This memory cell has also an analog switch between a p type transistor MP and an n type transistor MCN comprising a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MN. An RESN line is connected to the gates of MP and MP and an RESP line is connected to the gates of MP and VPSB.

A side edge of the memory transistor of each inverter i.e. a source of each memory transistor MCN MCN is connected to a source line SL. A side edge of a load transistor for the true side inverter i.e. a source of the load transistor MP is connected to VPST line and a side edge of a load transistor for the bar side inverter i.e. a source of the load transistor MP is connected to VPSB line.

In the flip flop the inverter true side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the true state of the cell and the inverter bar side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the bar state of the cell. The junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeT and the junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeB. If nodeT has a high voltage and nodeB has a low voltage then 0 is recorded in the memory and if nodeT has a low voltage and nodeB has a high voltage then 1 is recorded in the memory.

NodeT is connected to a bit line BLT BitLine True through a transfer gate MN and NodeB is connected to a bit line BLB BitLine Bar through a transfer gate MN. Each transfer gate MN MN is composed of an n type transistor and each gate is connected to a common word line WL.

In addition a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeT and VPST with the load transistor MP. Moreover a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeB and VPSB with the load transistor MP. The true side precharge line PRET is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP and the bar side precharge line PREB is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP. Furthermore each p type MOS transistor MP MP is formed in the same N well and a voltage of the N well is controlled by VPM signal.

In addition is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for writing data on a memory transistor MCN of the memory cell. is a schematic diagram showing a voltage applying procedure for erasing data of the nonvolatile memory cell. is a schematic diagram showing an applied voltage condition for reading data of the nonvolatile memory cell.

As shown in a p type well with 0.8 m in depth and average boron concentrations 2 10cmis formed in a surface area of a p type silicon substrate with electric resistivity 10 cm. The two transistors MCN and MCN isolated by plurality of trenches for device isolation with 250 nm in depth are formed in the p type well . In this figure only one memory transistor MCN is shown.

The memory transistor is an n channel type transistor. It comprises a drain formed next to one trench and a source formed next to another trench in the surface area of the p type well and comprises a drain extension formed in the vicinity of the drain . The drain and the source are doped with average arsenic concentration 1 10cm and the drain extension is doped with average arsenic concentration 5 10cm.

A 5 nm thick gate insulator layer and a 200 nm thick gate electrode of poly silicon layer doped with phosphorus concentration 2 10cmare formed on a channel region between the drain and the source on the surface of the p type well . Side spacers and S composed of a 50 nm thick insulator are formed on the drain and source at the side of the gate insulator and the gate electrode . The source side side spacer S contacts the channel region of the substrate because an extension area is not formed in the vicinity of the source .

A p type diffused layer with average boron concentration 1 10cmis formed in the area isolated from the foregoing memory transistor by a trench in the p type well area . The layer works an electrode for connecting this p type well to ground.

A threshold voltage of the memory transistor is raised by carrier injection into the source side side spacer S. As illustrated in the threshold voltage revert back to the initial state by drawing out the injected carrier from the side spacer S. Accordingly this memory transistor can record data without volatilization.

While the initial threshold voltage of the memory transistor is set at 1.2V the transistor is unstable due to an atypical structure. Therefore this memory transistor cannot be used solely in terms of reliability. The memory cell of this embodiment is formed with the flip flop as shown .

In programming operation is performed by applying 0V to a drain line VD and applying a positive voltage e.g. 6V not more than a breakdown voltage to a source line VS and a gate line VG to generate a channel hot electron HE and to inject it into the side spacer S. Electrons trapped by the channel hot electron injection lead to raising the threshold voltage and the memory transistor becomes a programmed state.

On the other hand in the case of writing data 1 the threshold voltage of the memory transistor MCN is raised which all conditions but applying Vcc to BLT and applying 0V to BLB are the same as those of writing data 0 .

6V is applied to both the gate nodeB of the transistor MCN and the drain the source line SL of the transistor MCN in the foregoing embodiment. However a different power voltage can be applied to the gate and the drain.

As stated above the voltage condition of the programming operation shown in and the voltage condition of the erase operation shown in are designed so that the word line and the bit line that are necessary to be controlled individually for each memory cell can perform at either 0V or Vcc in other words no high voltage is required to be applied to the word line or bit line. Thus a high breakdown voltage transistor is not required and a high performance transistor can be used in a word line control circuit and a bit line control circuit to speed up of reading operation.

The state of the nonvolatile memory cell reverts back to the state shown in by erase operation illustrated in and even if the threshold voltage is controlled under the condition shown in or .

As stated above memory transistors MCN MCN can be reduced back to Vth of the initial state from Vth of the programmed state. Thus enough voltage differential of the programmed side and the erased side can be secured even if data 0 or 1 is rewritten multiple times.

A programming operation shown in and makes it possible to write data 1 or 0 to the memory cell by writing to either the memory transistor MCN or MCN. In the case that both threshold voltages of the memory transistors MCN and MCN are Vth of the initial state i.e. a state of no data setting the data of the memory cell is unstable. However the data of the nonvolatile memory cell of the initial state can be fixed at either 1 or 0 by applying voltage by the following procedure

The procedure shown in is as follows. This procedure is preformed under the condition of setting a word line WL bit lines BLT BLB and RESN at 0V as well as setting RESP at Vcc. To begin with the memory transistors MCN and MCN are made to turn off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t. Then reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t leads to power on of the precharge transistors MP and MP. At the same time true side precharge voltage VPST is reduced by V e.g. 0.2V which is much lower than Vth Vth. Therefore precharge voltage of nodeT becomes Vcc V and precharge voltage of nodeB becomes Vcc and the voltage between the source and the drain of the memory transistor MCN is V higher than the voltage between the source and the drain of the memory transistor MCN. Consequently an apparent threshold voltage of the memory transistor MCN can be V higher.

Voltage of PRET PREB reverts back to Vcc at the time t and the source voltage SL is started to reduce gradually to 0V at the time t. At this time the flip flop data is fixed at 1 in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 because voltage of nodeT is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeB becomes Vcc V by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN. On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is 0 the flip flop data is fixed at 0 because voltage of nodeB is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeT becomes Vcc by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN.

Moreover in the case that the data of the memory cell is indetermination i.e. both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth the flip flop data fixed at 1 nodeT is reduced to 0V and nodeB becomes Vcc V by MCN turning on instead of MCN that is caused that the threshold voltage of MCN appears V lower than that of MCN.

The voltage to take into account incipient fluctuation of threshold voltage of the transistor is appropriate for the V for example 0.2V. It is because most of memory cells that both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth have not written data yet and memory transistor MCN MCN are not deteriorated by writing data.

The voltage applying procedure shown in is for applying voltage to fix the initial data of the memory cell at 1 . On the other hand the initial data of the memory cell can be fixed at 0 by V reduction of the VPSB voltage instead of that of VPST in source voltage control of the p type MOS transistor.

In the case of the memory array including memory cells written data as well as those of the initial state applying the procedure only to memory cell of the initial state individually the data of the memory cell can be fixed at 1 or 0 . On the other hand in the case of the memory array including only memory cells of the initial state applying the procedure to the entire memory cell the data of the memory cell can be fixed at 1 or 0 . The following description shows the procedure to fix the data of the memory cell of the initial state at 1 .

This procedure is preformed under the condition of setting a word line WL bit lines BLT BLB and RESN at 0V and setting RESP at Vcc. To begin with MCN and MCN is turned off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t. Precharge control signals PREB PRET and the source voltage VPST of the precharge transistor MP is reduced from Vcc to 0V at the time t thus nodeB is charged to Vcc by the precharge transistor MP and nodeT is discharged through the precharge transistor MP. The voltage of PREB and PRET is raised back to Vcc at the time t and the voltage of SL is reduced back to 0V from Vcc then MCN applied higher gate voltage turns on instead of MCN thus nodeT is reduced to 0V under keeping the voltage of nodeB at Vcc and the flip flop data is fixed at 1 .

The voltage applying procedure shown in is for fixing the data of the memory cell at 1 . On the other hand the initial data of the memory cell can be fixed at 0 . By reducing the source voltage VPSB of the precharge transistor MP from Vcc to 0V instead of the source voltage VPST of the precharge transistor MP nodeB becomes 0V and the data is fixed at 0 . On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal .

The nonvolatile memory cell of the initial state can be used as a fuse by fixing the data at 1 by applying the procedure shown in or . The data 1 corresponds to a state of the fuse before burning it out.

The voltage applying procedure for data fixing shown in is a methods that can fix the data of the memory cell at 1 even if the memory array includes a memory cell of the initial state i.e. a memory cell that each memory transistor MCN MCN is in the initial state the threshold voltage Vth . On the other hand voltage applying procedures shown in can be applied in the case of no memory cell of the initial state in the memory array or no need to care about unstable data of the memory cell of the initial state. This procedure does not cause the V reduction of the voltage differential for fixing cf. as the procedure shown in .

The procedure shown in is as follows. Under the condition that a word line WL bit lines BLT BLB and RESN are set at 0V and RESP VPST VPSB and VPM are set at Vcc the memory transistors MCN and MCN are turned off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t then the precharge transistors MP and MP are turned on state by reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t and this gives nodeT and nodeB to be precharged up to Vcc. To finish the precharge voltage of PRET PREB is raised back to Vcc at the time t and then the source voltage SL starts to reduce gradually to 0V at the time t. At this time MCN turns on state instead of MCN in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 in another words the threshold voltage of MCN is lower than that of MCN thus nodeT is reduced to 0V and nodeB becomes Vcc which means that the flip flop data is fixed at 1 . On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is 0 MCN turns on state instead of MCN thus nodeB is reduced to 0V and nodeT becomes Vcc which means that the flip flop data is fixed at 0 .

The procedure shown in is as follows. Under the condition of setting a word line WL bit lines BLT BLB and RESP at 0V RESN VPST VPSB and VPM at Vcc and fixing a source voltage SL at 0V the precharge transistors MP and MP are turns on state to precharge nodeT and nodeB by reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t. At this time nodeT and nodeB are precharged to Vcc because the transistors MN MN MN and MN are off state. On the other hand drain AtrT of MCN and drain AtrB of MNC are nearly 0V because they are set floating state. At the time of t PESN is set at 0V and RESP is set at Vcc. At this time nodeT and AtrT as well as nodeB and AtrB are set conduction state and AtrT and AtrB are charged to Vcc because the transistors MN MN MN and MN are on state. At the time of t PRET and PREB are raised from 0V to Vcc. In the case of data 1 the voltage of nodeT becomes lower than that of nodeB because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the flip flop is fixed at 1 . On the other hand in the case of data 0 the voltage of nodeB becomes lower than that of nodeT because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the flip flop is fixed at 0 .

The procedure for fixing data has an advantage in terms of consumption of current compared to that of the second embodiment shown in because the term of the DC penetration current flows in the flip flop at the time of precharge is limited to length of time between t and t.

The procedure shown in is as follows. The feature of this procedure for fixing data is that precharge voltage for nodeT and nodeB is supplied from bit lines. NodeT and nodeB are precharged to Vcc Vthn through a transfer gate MN or MN by the bit line BLT or BLB that is charged up to Vcc due to fixing PRET and PREB at Vcc as well as setting a word line WL the bit lines BLT and BLB at Vcc and setting VPST and VPSB at 0V to cut off MP through Mp. Here Vthn is threshold voltage of MP and MP. NodeT and nodeB are set floating state by reducing the voltage of the word line WL from Vcc to 0V at the time t then the flip flop data is fixed by the discharge differential from MCN and MCN. In the case of data 1 the voltage of nodeT becomes lower than that of nodeB because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the nonvolatile memory cell is fixed at 1 after raising voltage of VPST and VPSB from 0V to Vcc at the time t. On the other hand in the case of data 0 the voltage of nodeB becomes lower than that of nodeT because the resistance value of MCN of lower threshold voltage is lower than that of MCN thus the data of the nonvolatile memory cell is fixed at 0 after raising the voltage of VPST and VPSB from 0V to Vcc at the time t. Then VPS is raised to Vcc at the time t.

In addition as described in the second embodiment with reference to and the nonvolatile memory device of the fourth embodiment permits a different length or a different width of channel of the memory transistors MCN MCN and the load transistor MP MP. the nonvolatile memory device of the fourth embodiment also permits asymmetric circuit configuration of the flip flop by connecting a capacitor to one of inverters.

Additionally when the nonvolatile memory cell with the VPS separating type 12 transistor configuration is used the configuration of voltage shown in makes it possible to measure the threshold voltage of the memory transistor. This method enables to measure at least one of the values including the incipient threshold voltage fluctuation a variation of the threshold voltage in the time of programming operation or erase operation and a retention characteristic of the threshold voltage under high temperature after rewriting.

The load transistor MP becomes power on and supplies nodeT with a MAP voltage in the case that VPSB voltage is not less than Vthp because the gate voltage PRET is set at 0V. Also the load transistor MP becomes power on and is able to supply nodeB with a MAP voltage in the case that VPSB voltage is not less than Vthp because the gate voltage PREB is set at 0V. The Vthp is the threshold voltage of the p type MOS transistor shown as MP MP and a threshold voltage of the transistor produced by a conventional CMOS process is about 0.7V. Accordingly the threshold voltage required gate voltage for a certain current flow of MCN can be measured. During the measurement of the threshold voltage of MCN BL can stay at 0V because transistors MN MP MN and MP are not set conduction state and both a pass from nodeT to SL and a pass from nodeB to SL are cut off.

In addition it is not necessary to divide the precharge line into two lines PRET PREB to measure the threshold voltage.

A nonvolatile memory device and a semiconductor integrated circuit device therewith of the fifth embodiment will now be described with referent to and .

The memory cell has a static latch type flip flop formed by connecting an inverter true side inverter formed by series connection of a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MCN and an inverter bar side inverter formed by series connection of a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MCN. The p type MOS transistors MP and MP are referred to as load transistors and n type MOS transistors MCN and MCN are referred to as memory transistors. The memory transistors MCN and MCN can be injected and erased electrons in a side wall of a gate. The threshold voltage of the memory transistors MCN and MCN are changed without volatilization thus the memory transistors MCN and MCN perform as nonvolatile device.

This memory cell has further an analog switch between a p type transistor MP and an n type transistor MCN comprising a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MN. This memory cell has also an analog switch between a p type transistor MP and an n type transistor MCN comprising a p type MOS transistor MP and an n type MOS transistor MN. An RESN line is connected to the gates of MP and MP and an RESP line is connected to the gates of MP and VPSB.

A side edge of the memory transistor of the true side inverter i.e. a source of the memory transistor MCN is connected to a source line SLT. A side edge of the memory transistor of the bar side inverter i.e. a source of the memory transistor MCN is connected to a bar side source line SLB. In addition side edges of the load transistor of both inverters i.e. sources of load transistors MP and MP are connected to VPS line.

In the flip flop the inverter true side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the true state of the cell and the inverter bar side inverter formed by series connection of the load transistor MP and the memory transistor MCN performs as a memory unit for the bar state of the cell. The junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeT and the junction of the load transistor MP with the memory transistor MCN is nodeB. If nodeT has a high voltage and nodeB has a low voltage then 0 is written in the memory and if nodeT has a low voltage and nodeB has a high voltage then 1 is recorded in the memory.

NodeT is connected to a bit line BLT BitLine True through a transfer gate MN and NodeB is connected to a bit line BLB BitLine Bar through a transfer gate MN. Each transfer gate MN MN is composed of an n type transistor and each gate is connected to a common word line WL.

In addition a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeT and VPST with the load transistor MP. Moreover a p type MOS transistor MP as a precharge transistor is connected in parallel i.e. between nodeB and VPSB with the load transistor MP. The true side precharge line PRET is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP and the bar side precharge line PREB is connected to the p type MOS transistor MP. Furthermore each p type MOS transistor MP MP is formed in the same N well and a voltage of the N well is controlled by VPM signal.

A configuration and operation of memory transistors MCN and MCN of a nonvolatile memory cell of this embodiment is the same as those of the fourth embodiment described in through but data fixing procedure. Therefore only the data fixing procedure will now be described.

The procedure shown in is as follows. This procedure is preformed under the condition of setting a word line WL bit lines BLT BLB and RESN at 0V and setting RESP VPS and VPM at Vcc. To begin with the memory transistors MCN and MCN are made to turn off state by raising a source voltage SL from 0V to Vcc at the time t. Then reducing precharge control signals PRET and PREB from Vcc to 0V at the time t leads to power on of the precharge transistors MP and MP. At the same time Vcc is applied to nodeT and nodeB.

Voltage of PRET PREB reverts back to Vcc at the time t and the source voltage SLT is started to reduce gradually to 0V at the time t. The source voltage of SLB is started to raise gradually to 0V at the time t. At this time The voltages SLB and SLT are controlled so as to satisfy the formula SLB SLT Vs e.g. Vs 0.2V . Consequently the voltage between the source and the drain of the memory transistor MCN is controlled to be V higher than that of the memory transistor MCN thus the threshold voltage of MCN appears Vs higher than that of MCN.

At this time the flip flop data is fixed at 1 in the case that the data of the memory cell is 1 because voltage of nodeT is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeB becomes Vcc by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN. On the other hand in the case that the data of the memory cell is 0 the flip flop data is fixed at 0 because voltage of nodeB is reduced to 0V and voltage of nodeT becomes Vcc by MCN of lower threshold voltage turning on instead of MCN.

Moreover in the case that the data of the memory cell is indetermination i.e. both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth the flip flop data fixed at 1 nodeT is reduced to 0V and nodeB becomes Vcc by MCN turning on instead of MCN that is because the threshold voltage of MCN appears Vs lower than that of MCN.

The voltage to take into account incipient fluctuation of threshold voltage of the transistor is appropriate for the V for example 0.2V. It is because most of memory cells that both threshold voltages of MCN and MCN are Vth have not written data yet and memory transistor MCN MCN are not deteriorated by writing data.

The voltage applying procedure shown in is for applying voltage to fix the initial data of the memory cell at 1 . On the other hand the initial data of the memory cell can be fixed at 0 by reversing the relationship between SLT and SLB in terms of the control of the source voltage of the memory transistor. On the other hand in the procedure shown in as the same voltage is applied to PREB and PRET PREB and PRET can be connected to be applied a common signal e.g. PRE signal .

An ID number for chip authentication an address for home delivery merchandise information e.g. price manufacturing date place of production producer and component information essential Information e.g. flight number owner name boarding place and destination for an airfreight tag alternating a barcode are written in the module EEPROM of the nonvolatile memory device mounted on this RFID chip.

The system LSI chip has a static random access memory SRAM a central processing unit CPU a cash memory CASH a logic circuit Logic a phase locked loop circuit PLL an analog digital converter ADC an digital analog converter DAC and a system controller SYSC inside of the level shifter circuit . Components shown as and are nonvolatile memories EEPROM that can be independently erased and written electrically and have the nonvolatile memory device with required capacitance for the present invention.

The foregoing nonvolatile memory is used to store relief information control information for replacing defective memory cells by redundant memory cells of the SRAM .

In addition the nonvolatile memory cell is mounted instead of a relief program circuit with a fuse and is used for storing information to identify a circuit constant of an analog circuit of a constant trimming circuit that trims the foregoing circuit constant storing trimming data of transmission frequency of the analog circuit or recording information to identify the foregoing reference voltage of the voltage trimming circuit.

Moreover the foregoing nonvolatile memory is used for storing an ID information of the chip operation mode information of the chip and other required data by mounting a 256 bit memory capacitance.

