---

title: Systems and methods for improving the ability of a power delivery system to withstand multiple failure events
abstract: The invention is directed to systems and methods for enhancing the ability of a power delivery system to withstand the occurrence of multiple failure events. Specifically, the invention is directed to a power delivery system employing a web-type network topology for a generator bus where at least two power generating sources, such as generators, are connected by an external ring, wherein the external ring is comprised of a plurality of ring segments. A first set of cables connects each power generating element with a central point and a second set of cables connects the center of each ring segment with the central point, wherein power is deliverable to the central point via at least one of the external ring, first set of cables and the second set of cables. Additional internal rings of cables may also be utilized to connect the first and second sets of cables.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07652396&OS=07652396&RS=07652396
owner: Florida State University Research Foundation
number: 07652396
owner_city: Tallahassee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070723
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 820 075 entitled Web Type Network Topology of Enhanced Resistance to Multiple Damage which was filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Jul. 21 2006 the specification and appendices of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The work that led to this invention has been supported in part by a grant from the Office of Naval Research through grant number N00014 02 1 0623. Thus the United States Government may have certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates to powers delivery systems. More specifically the invention relates to the configuration and evaluation of a power delivery system s network topology to increase the power delivery system s resistance to multiple failures.

In most power delivery systems it is important that the system be robust enough to ensure uninterrupted service despite failure events that occur in a portion of the power delivery system. For example in naval platforms such as a warship the survivability of a system often depends on the ability of the integrated power system IPS used to distribute power to various systems throughout the ship including control propulsion and combat systems as well as ship service loads to withstand the occurrence of multiple failures or faults .

Survivability is the ability to provide power for consumers loads under multiple faults caused by natural or hostile disruptions. Failure of a single IPS level such as the generator bus to supply power to the rest of the IPS will immediately result in failure of the entire IPS. Power interruption let alone total power loss would most certainly lead to mission failure possibly complete destruction of the ship as well as personnel and economic losses.

Failure events or faults include the loss of a cable or generator. Faults can be caused by direct hits or as a result of secondary or cascading damage. Each fault is considered an event that may not be repaired during battle. Thus multiple faults are viewed as independent events and considered to be simultaneously occurring in that each fault persists until repair is possible and achieved. If after the faults have occurred the generator bus is still able to supply power produced by all generators to the rest of the IPS and no response is required then the generator bus is said to survive the given number of faults without requiring IPS reconfiguration. If power supplied from the generator bus to the rest of the IPS is reduced either due to damage of at least one generator or due to faults in cables isolating at least one generator then the generator bus is said to survive requiring IPS reconfiguration.

Up to now increases in IPS survivability have mostly been achieved through generator redundancy. However in the design of a ship or other vehicle or a power distribution system cost weight and spatial separation of generators limit this option. Reconfiguration is commonly viewed as a tool for ensuring uninterrupted power supply to ship loads. However the act of reconfiguration itself entails a cost and delay. For instance reconfiguration activities may interfere with activities of other ship systems because they require ship control and communication resources to analyze faults reroute paths and perform switch over operations. Electrical transients induced by switch overs may hinder operations or even damage equipment. Further the survivability of a power delivery system cannot exceed that determined by the topological limitations of the system. Therefore the power delivery system s survivability is limited by the topological constraints of the system.

The invention is directed to systems and methods for enhancing the survivability the ability of a power delivery system to withstand multiple failures of a power delivery system. Embodiments of the invention involve the design of an IPS architecture with increased resistance to multiple faults built directly into the architecture. By building increased resistance to multiple faults directly into the IPS architecture one can enhance the IPS survivability delay reconfiguration activities and improve reconfiguration efficiency.

Example embodiments of the invention are directed to a web type configuration of a power delivery system s generator bus such as an IPS generator bus to increase the survivability of the power delivery system functionality during unpredictable multiple failure events. Such systems may include the electric power system of a naval warship where the multiple failure events are caused by damage sustained by the warship during battle.

The web type topology increases the probability for the power delivery system to survive without requiring IPS reconfiguration and decreases the probability of complete failure. Further implementation of a web topology in a power delivery system reduces the need for redundancy of key elements without jeopardizing network survivability thereby saving additional expense and avoiding equipment weight and volume concerns associated with the redundancy of key elements. Additionally web topology allows for sufficient spatial separation of topological elements e.g. generators transformers network equipment etc. such that failure events affect as few topological elements as possible on each failure event occurrence.

The systems and methods described herein may also be applied to any power delivery system susceptible to failure events. Various embodiments of the invention as well as addition features are discussed in more detail below.

The invention is directed to systems and methods for a power delivery system to withstand multiple failure events. The invention aids in the construction configuration and evaluation of various networks such as power delivery networks communication networks etc. whose function depends critically on the non interrupted service of few key elements and which are potential subject to multiple damage resulting from natural disasters or human action or unintentional failures in control systems may utilize the invention. Some examples of such systems include power systems with more than one power generator power systems in electrical vehicles ships aircraft spacecraft electric utility distribution systems and the like wired computer communication systems in financial institutes commercial companies etc.

The invention may be applied to new distributed systems or enhance the survivability of those already in use. The survivability of a distributed system describes a system s ability to withstand multiple failures to maintain service throughout the network without interruption. When designing new networks the web configuration of an example embodiment of the invention described below may allow for decreased redundancies in a network s key elements without jeopardizing the network survivability. Since key network elements contribute significantly in the cost associated with building and maintaining such a network limiting unnecessary redundancies without compromising a systems survivability is desirable. Further in a specific application such as a warship the weight associated with redundant key network elements such as generators is also a factor considered in the system s design. The web topology of an example embodiment of the invention may alleviate equipment weight and volume concerns by eliminating unnecessary redundancies.

Example embodiments of the invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Example embodiments of the invention are described below with reference to block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of systems methods apparatuses and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be controlled or implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Example embodiments of the invention will hereinafter be described with reference to the figures in which like numerals indicate like elements throughout the several drawings.

Topologies already being utilized to connect key elements in power and or communication networks are shown in . As shown in these topologies include ring mesh star fully connected line or radial tree and bus topologies. The ring topology is typically employed in ship electrical systems and other power delivery systems while the mesh and star topologies is often employed in communication networks. Although each of these topologies has its own set of advantages and disadvantages as will be discussed below the web configuration of an example embodiment of the invention has additional features not included in any of these prior art topologies shown in . Further the combination of advantageous features associated with the web configuration of an example embodiment of the invention is unlike any of the prior art topologies.

Also shown in the web topologies of is an external ring connecting the key elements between themselves. Generators belong to a separate IPS layer if they are connected to each other independently from other elements of the IPS. A link between two generators is called a horizontal link. Generally two generators can be linked by several independent cables or by a partitioned cable. A central or center point location is selected and the central point is connected via crossing links or rays e.g. cables to each key element . In an alternative embodiment of the invention a key element such as a generator may be located at the central point .

Additional horizontal links or cables where one link corresponds to one cable connect the central point with external ring segments . The ring segments may be broken up into smaller segments. A point of cable interconnection is referred to as a node. Key elements such as generators and the central point may also be considered nodes. The cable between two nodes may also be referred to as an edge. A path connecting any two generators in a web is called a link. A link may consist of several edges and a link length may be described in the number of edges in the link. There are eight total horizontal links shown in solid lines in 12 total if the dotted lined internal ring is counted . There are 12 total horizontal links shown in solid lines in 16 total if the dotted lined internal ring is counted .

Topologies with higher interconnectivity of horizontal links have higher survivability characteristics. Moreover the more horizontal links the easier it is to maintain spatial separation of key elements which is an important consideration depending on the expected size of the failure event. For example if an explosion would be the expected failure event and if the key elements are spaced far enough apart then one failure event is less likely to eliminate two key elements at once. Further partitioning horizontal links and repositioning vertical links discussed below with reference to further increase survivability of the power system generator bus configuration 

In the example embodiments of an internal ring is shown with dotted lines. The internal ring of cables interconnects the horizontal links running from the central point to other elements of the web topology. In alternative embodiments of the invention the horizontal links may be increased and the web topology may be enhanced by including two or more internal rings of cables .

As shown in vertical links or external links are connected directly to each key element . The generator bus is connected with the rest of the IPS by vertical links. Vertical links may be attached to generators or to horizontal links central points etc. Although vertical links are not part of generator bus topologies their losses directly affect the survivability of the generator bus. Vertical links may be a non partitioned cable from a generator to the rest of the IPS. In alternative embodiments vertical links may vary in number structure and the way they connect to the generator bus. Although not shown in vertical links may connect one layer of the IPS employing web topology configuration with another layer employing web topology configuration essentially linking the two webs. Further the vertical links may also be configured in a web topology created webs nested within webs in increase the survivability of the power delivery system.

A generator bus topology may be characterized by the number of generators g the number of horizontal h and vertical v links and the manner in which the generators are connected to each other. The total number of elements M in a topology is M g h v.

In one exemplary embodiment of the invention all horizontal links in the generator bus are activated prior to battle in order to delay the need for reconfiguration. Faults of principle concern are the loss of a cable or a generator. Faults can be caused by direct hits or as a result of secondary or cascading damage. Each fault is considered as an event that has already happened and may not be repaired during battle. In this sense multiple faults are viewed as independent events that each persist while additional failure events may occur. Each possible combination of m damaged elements from the total number of elements M is defined as a fault scenario. The total number of scenarios N can be determined as

Faults in the generator bus and in the vertical links provoke three types of response from the rest of the IPS 1 no response 2 reconfiguration in the rest of the IPS due to the change in the amount of available power and 3 IPS failure due to complete interruption of the power supply.

In no response scenarios no generator is damaged and faults in horizontal and vertical links do not isolate any of generators. That is after the faults the generator bus is still able to supply power produced by all generators to the rest of the IPS and no response is required. In such a case the topology survives a given number of faults without requiring IPS reconfiguration. The number of no response scenarios is denoted by S.

Scenarios in which power supplied from the generator bus to the rest of the IPS is reduced either due to damage of at least one generator or due to faults in vertical and horizontal links isolating at least one generator require IPS reconfiguration. Such scenarios are called reconfiguration scenarios. The number of reconfiguration scenarios is denoted by R.

Scenarios in which all generators are damaged or with faults in all vertical links or with faults in generators horizontal and vertical links which lead to a complete interruption in power supply are called scenarios of complete failure. Their number is denoted by F.

At a given value of m the total number of fault scenarios leading to each IPS response can be used to determine the response probability P under the assumption that each scenario is equally likely. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the calculation may be adjusted by varying the likelihood of each scenario occurring. The probability P is defined as the ratio of the number of fault scenarios resulting in an IPS response to the total number of fault scenarios N. Then where P S is the survival probability without IPS reconfiguration P R is the survival probability with IPS reconfiguration and P F is the probability of complete IPS failure. Since N S F R at any value of m the probabilities of the three responses sum to unity 1.

The performance of a topology at a given number of faults may be characterized by these three probabilities under the assumption that all scenarios are equally probable at a given value of m. More factors may also be considered when determining the probabilities of IPS responses such as varying the probability of occurrence of each scenario which in turn depends on the probability of damage for links and generators included in the scenario i.e. susceptibility .

A simple way to compare different topologies is to contrast probabilities of different IPS responses at a given value of m but cumulative criteria reflecting topology performance over several values of m are a better choice. Three cumulative criteria are 

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the number of vertical links should be equal to or larger than the number of generators. Further additional vertical links in the generator bus are more effective than additional horizontal links for increasing survivability of the system. The more horizontal links included in the topology the higher the ratio between the number of scenarios to recover without requiring reconfiguration in the rest of the IPS and the number of reconfiguration scenarios. The desirable features of a topology for the generator bus in the integrated power system of a warship are high survival probability under multiple failure events without requiring IPS reconfiguration and a low probability of complete failure. Further when the limits on generators and vertical links are exhausted horizontal links may be used to enhance the generator bus survivability.

Partitioning and re positioning links may achieve higher survivability characteristics without the cost and weight of additional generators. In the web topology of the example embodiment of the invention the increase in the number of horizontal links is combined with their partitioning. Moreover increasing the number of vertical links and choosing their optimum positions can further enhance the recoverability of the web topology.

As shown in the construction of a web topology for a power delivery system begins at step where the generators are first linked in a ring configuration where each link is considered a ring segment. Step is then invoked where the placement of the central point is determined. In an example embodiment of the invention the central point should be located a safe place. The susceptibility of different parts of the system to damage should be taken into account during configuration design. The expected damage and a ship s geometry should also be taken into consideration during configuration design. Other factors appreciable by one of ordinary skill in the art may also be considered during configuration design. While discussed above and discussed below show the central point to be in the center of the configuration in alternative embodiments of the invention the central point may be located elsewhere in the configuration i.e. not necessary centrally located .

Next the generators are each connected with the central point in step . In an alternative embodiment of the invention a key element such as a generator may be located at the central point . Step is then invoked where the center of each ring segment is connected with the central point. Next the center of each ray is connected by an internal ring in step . In alternative embodiments of the invention step does not have to be performed and the process may end at step .

In step it is determined if any additional internal rings are desired for the power system configuration. If addition internal rings are desired step is repeated where new ray segments created by the intersection of the first internal ring are themselves intersected by another internal ring. If it is determined in step that no additional internal rings are desired the process ends.

In the exemplary embodiment of breakers B and B are installed in the link connecting the generator with other topological elements. A potential fault in a horizontal or vertical link is represented by a three phase breaker in each link shown by black lines next to the name of the link and on top of the cable or the B and B breakers in the vertical link . An open breaker simulates damage in the corresponding link.

In the configuration and simulation of prior to fault conditions occurring i.e. prior to battle a steady solution is achieved where all horizontal links in the generator bus are activated prior to battle i.e. the breakers are closed . Multiple faults are then introduced into the system simulated by opening various breakers which open a connecting cable or disconnect a generator from the rest of the system. In spite of the fault disruptions the power to the loads the current in at least one of the vertical links is maintained as long as at least one link from either G or G to the load remained intact. Even with different sets of faults in the horizontal links where both generators and vertical links are operational both generators continue to supply power to the loads in an unchanged amount. Thus faults in the horizontal links do not affect power flow and the parameters of the generator such as voltage Vrmspu frequency Rad Sec real output power POUT MW reactive output power QOUT MVAR output voltage kV for each phase and output current kA for each phase remain unchanged. Further in the configuration and simulation of when a fault occurs in a vertical link V and one of the generators is damaged regardless of the horizontal links functioning normally or if some of the horizontal links are damaged the power output from the other generator remains unchanged. However when a fault occurs in a vertical link V and both of the generators G and G are functioning properly both generators then adjust in response to the vertical link damage in that both generators each supply half has much power to the same load regardless of the horizontal links functioning normally or if some of the horizontal links are damaged.

Accordingly many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of this application. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

