---

title: Non-intrusive capture and display of objects based on contact locality
abstract: Methods, apparatus, or products for displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer, the surface computer including a surface, surface computer capable receiving multi-touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface, the surface computer including a scanner, that include: detecting, by the surface computer, an object placed on the surface; identifying, by the surface computer, a region of the surface upon which the object is placed; scanning, by the surface computer using the scanner, the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object; and rendering, by the surface computer, the object image within the identified region without modifying portions of any other images rendered on the surface outside the identified region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139036&OS=08139036&RS=08139036
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08139036
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071007
---
The field of the invention is data processing or more specifically methods apparatus and products for displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer.

Multi touch surface computing is an area of computing that has made tremendous advancements over the last few years. Multi touch surface computing allows a user to interact with a computer through a surface that is typically implemented as a table top. The computer renders a graphical user interface GUI on the surface and users may manipulate GUI objects directly with their hands using multi touch technology as opposed to using traditional input devices such as a mouse or a keyboard. In such a manner the devices through which users provide input and receive output are merged into a single surface which provide an intuitive and efficient mechanism for users to interact with the computer. As surface computing becomes more ubiquitous in everyday environments readers will appreciate advancements in how users may utilize surface computing to intuitively and efficiently perform tasks that may be cumbersome using traditional input devices such as a keyboard and mouse.

Methods apparatus or products for displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer the surface computer including a surface surface computer capable receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface the surface computer including a scanner that include detecting by the surface computer an object placed on the surface identifying by the surface computer a region of the surface upon which the object is placed scanning by the surface computer using the scanner the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object and rendering by the surface computer the object image within the identified region without modifying portions of any other images rendered on the surface outside the identified region.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numbers generally represent like parts of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary methods apparatus and products for displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer in accordance with the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings beginning with . sets forth a functional block diagram of an exemplary surface computer capable of displaying documents to a plurality of users according to embodiments of the present invention. The exemplary surface computer of includes a surface mounted atop a base that houses the other components of the surface computer . The surface may be implemented using acrylic glass or other materials as will occur to those of skill in the art. In addition to the computing functionality provided by the surface computer the surface of may also serve as a table top for a coffee table dining table a conference table or some other table as will occur those of skill in the art. Examples of a surface computer that may be improved for displaying personalized documents to users according to embodiments of the present invention may include the Microsoft Surface and the ROSIE Coffee Table by Savant. Readers will note that in a preferred embodiment the surface is sufficiently large to accommodate several individuals seated around the display surface such as for example when the surface computer serves as a conference table.

The exemplary surface computer of is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface . Multi touch input refers to the ability of the surface computer to recognize multiple simultaneous points of contact between objects and the surface . These objects may include hands fingers portable electronic devices papers cups plates or any other object as will occur to those of skill in the art. Such recognition may include the position and pressure or degree of each point of contact which allows gestures and interaction with multiple fingers or hands through intuitive gestures. Depending largely on the size of the surface a surface computer typically supports interaction with more than one user or object simultaneously. In the example of the surface computer supports interaction with a plurality of users.

In the example of the exemplary surface computer receives multi touch input through the surface by reflecting infrared light off of objects on top of the surface and capturing the reflected images of the objects using multiple infrared cameras mounted inside the base . Using the reflected infrared images the surface computer may then perform pattern matching to determine the type of objects that the images represent. The objects may include fingers hands portable electronic devices papers and so on. The infrared light used to generate the images of the objects is provided by an infrared lamp mounted to the base of the surface computer . Readers will note that infrared light may be used to prevent any interference with users ability to view the surface because infrared light is typically not visible to the human eye.

Although the exemplary surface computer of above receives multi touch input through the surface using a system of infrared lamps and cameras readers will note that such implementation are for explanation only and not for limitation. In fact other embodiments of a surface computer for displaying documents to a plurality of users according to embodiments of the present invention may use other technologies as will occur to those of skill in the art such as for example frustrated total internal reflection. Frustrated total internal reflection refers to a technology that disperses light through a surface using internal reflection. When an object comes in contact with one side of the surface the dispersed light inside the surface scatters onto light detectors on the opposite side of the surface thereby identifying the point at which the object touched the surface. Other technologies may include dispersive signal technology and acoustic pulse recognition.

In the example of the surface computer renders display output on the surface using a projector . The projector renders a GUT on the surface for viewing by the users. The projector of is implemented using Digital Light Processing DLP technology originally developed at Texas Instruments. Other technologies useful in implementing the projector may include liquid crystal display LCD technology and liquid crystal on silicon LCOS technology. Although the exemplary surface computer of above displays output on the surface using a projector readers will note that such an implementation is for explanation and not for limitation. In fact other embodiments of a surface computer for displaying documents to a plurality of users according to embodiments of the present invention may use other technologies as will occur to those of skill in the art such as for example embedding a flat panel display into the surface .

The surface computer of also includes a scanner a device that captures a digital image of an object. In the example of the scanner is implemented using a charged coupled device CCD array. The CCD array is a collection of tiny light sensitive diodes which convert photons into electrons. Each diode is called a photosite and is sensitive to light the brighter the light that hits a single photosite the greater the electrical charge that will accumulate at that site. The image of the object scanned reaches the CCD array through a series of mirrors filters and lenses. The exact configuration of these components will vary from one embodiment to another. The scanner of includes one or more lamps to illuminate the object. The lamps may be implemented using a cold cathode fluorescent lamps CCFL xenon lamps standard fluorescent lamps diodes or any other implementation as will occur to those of skill in the art. The size and number of lamps may be configured in the scanner in any number of ways as will occur to those of skill in the art to provide varying levels of granularity regarding the portion of the surface illuminated by the lamps. In some embodiments only the lamps directly beneath the object being scanned will be turned on to prevent obscuring any remaining portions of the surface during the scanning process.

In the example of the scanner which includes the mirrors lens filters CCD array lamps and so on moves across the underside of the surface by a belt that is attached to a stepper motor. The scanner is attached to stabilizer bars to ensure that there is no wobble or deviation as the scanner passes beneath the surface . As the scanner passes beneath an object placed on the surface the image of the object is reflected through a series of mirrors onto a lens. The lens splits the image into three smaller versions of the original. Each smaller version passes through a color filter which is either red green or blue onto a discrete section of the CCD array. The scanner then combines the data from the three parts of the CCD array into a single full color image.

Although the scanner is described above using CCD technology other scanning technologies may also be useful in embodiments of the present invention. For example a scanner in some embodiments may be implemented using contact image sensor CIS technology. CIS technology replaces the CCD array mirrors filters lamp and lens with rows of red green and blue light emitting diodes LEDs . The image sensor mechanism consisting of hundreds or thousands of individual sensors spanning the width of the surface is placed very close to the surface on which the object rests. When the object is scanned the LEDs combine to provide white light. The illuminated image of the object is then captured by the row of sensors. Still further readers will appreciate that other scanning technologies may be used. The CCD scanner and the CIS scanner described above are for explanation only and not for limitation.

The surface computer of includes one or more computer processors as well as random access memory RAM . The processors are connected to other components of the system through a front side bus and bus adapter . The processors are connected to RAM through a high speed memory bus and to expansion components through an extension bus .

Stored in RAM is an object display module software that includes computer program instructions for displaying an image of an object placed on the surface computer of the surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The object display module operates generally for displaying an image of an object placed on the surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention by detecting an object placed on the surface identifying a region of the surface upon which the object is placed scanning using the scanner the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object and rendering the object image within the identified region without modifying any other images rendered on the surface outside the identified region. The object placed on the surface may be implemented as a pictorial document such as a photograph or other printed graphic image a text document a hand a portable computing device or any other object as will occur to those of skill in the art.

Also stored in RAM is a scanner device driver a set of computer program instructions that provides a software interface for operating the scanner . The scanner device driver exposes an application programming interface API to the object display module that may be used to scan a region of the surface to create an image of any objects place on that particular region. In the example of the scanner device driver may be implemented in any number of ways and provide a variety of interfaces as will occur to those of skill in the art including those according to the TWAIN specification promulgated by the TWAIN Working Group the Image and Scanner Interface Specification ISIS developed by Pixel Translations the Scanner Access Now Easy SANE specification and so on.

Also stored in RAM is an operating system . Operating systems useful for applying displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention may include or be derived from UNIX Linux Microsoft Vista Microsoft XP AIX IBM s i5 OS and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. The operating system the scanner device driver and the object display module in the example of are shown in RAM but many components of such software typically are stored in non volatile memory also such as for example on a disk drive .

The surface computer of includes disk drive adapter coupled through expansion bus and bus adapter to processor and other components of the computing device . Disk drive adapter connects non volatile data storage to the computing device in the form of disk drive . Disk drive adapters useful in computing devices for displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention include Integrated Drive Electronics IDE adapters Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapters and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Non volatile computer memory also may be implemented for as an optical disk drive electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or Flash memory RAM drives and so on as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The example surface computer of includes one or more input output I O adapters . I O adapters implement user oriented input output through for example software drivers and computer hardware for controlling output to devices such as computer display screens or speakers as well as user input from user input devices such as for example microphone for collecting speech input and the scanner for capturing digital images of objects placed on the surface . The example surface computer of also includes a Digital Light Processing adapter which is an example of an I O adapter specially designed for graphic output to a projector . Video adapter is connected to processor through a high speed video bus bus adapter and the front side bus which is also a high speed bus.

The exemplary surface computer of includes video capture hardware that converts image signals received from the infrared cameras to digital video for further processing including pattern recognition. The video capture hardware of may use any number of video codec including for example codec described in the Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG family of specifications the H.264 standard the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers 421M standard or any other video codec as will occur to those of skill in the art. Although the video capture hardware of is depicted separately from the infrared cameras readers will note that in some embodiment the video capture hardware may be incorporated into the cameras . In such embodiments the infrared camera may connect to the other components of the surface computer through a Universal Serial Bus USB connection FireWire connection or any other data communications connection as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The exemplary surface computer of also includes an Inter Integrated Circuit IC bus adapter . The IC bus protocol is a serial computer bus protocol for connecting electronic components inside a computer that was first published in 1982 by Philips. IC is a simple low bandwidth short distance protocol. Through the IC bus adapter the processors control the infrared lamp . Although the exemplary surface computer utilizes the IC protocol readers will note this is for explanation and not for limitation. The bus adapter may be implemented using other technologies as will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art including for example technologies described in the Intelligent Platform Management Interface IPMI specification the System Management Bus SMBus specification the Joint Test Action Group JTAG specification and so on.

The exemplary surface computer of also includes a communications adapter that couples the surface computer for data communications with other computing devices through a data communications network . Such a data communication network may be implemented with external buses such as a Universal Serial Bus USB or as an Internet Protocol IP network or an Ethernet network for example and in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. Communications adapters implement the hardware level of data communications through which one computer sends data communications to another computer directly or through a data communications network. Examples of communications adapters useful for displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention include modems for wired dial up communications Ethernet IEEE 802.3 adapters for wired data communications network communications and 802.11 adapters for wireless data communications network communications.

The arrangement of networks and other devices making up the exemplary system illustrated in are for explanation not for limitation. Data processing systems useful according to various embodiments of the present invention may include additional servers routers other devices and peer to peer architectures not shown in as will occur to those of skill in the art. Networks in such data processing systems may support many data communications protocols including for example TCP Transmission Control Protocol IP Internet Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol WAP Wireless Access Protocol HDTP Handheld Device Transport Protocol and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on a variety of hardware platforms in addition to those illustrated in .

For further explanation set forth line drawings illustrating exemplary surfaces useful in displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The surface of is comprised in a surface computer . The surface computer is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface . The surface computer includes a scanner mounted beneath the surface and capable of capturing an image of any of the objects placed on the surface .

In the example of the surface computer detects an object placed on the surface . The surface computer of identifies a region of the surface upon which the object is placed and scans the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object using the scanner mounted beneath the surface . In the surface computer renders the object image within the identified region without modifying any other images rendered on the surface outside the identified region. The object in the example of is implemented as a photograph but readers will note that any object as will occur to those of skill in the art may be useful in displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The surface computer includes a surface and is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface. In such a manner the surface provides an intuitive and efficient mechanism for users to interact with the surface computer. The surface computer described with respect to includes a scanner capable of capturing an image of any of the objects placed on the surface.

The method of includes detecting by the surface computer an object placed on the surface. The surface computer may detect an object placed on the surface according to the method of using surface image processing. Surface image processing may be used by the surface computer to detect when an object is placed on the surface by continuously capturing images of the surface and comparing the current image of the surface with the previous image. Any changes between the current image and previous image indicate that an object was placed on the surface or removed from the surface. To identify whether an object was placed on the surface or removed from the surface the surface computer may use pattern matching or other recognition techniques as will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In addition to surface image processing the surface computer may detect an object placed on the surface according to the method of using frustrated total internal reflection. Using frustrated total internal reflection the surface computer may detect when an object is placed on the surface by identifying any changes in the reflection pattern of the light internally reflected through the surface. Any changes in the reflection pattern indicate that an object was placed on the surface or removed from the surface. To identify whether an object was placed on the surface or removed from the surface the surface computer may determine whether the current pattern has more or less scatter points than the previous pattern. The existence of additional scatter points indicates that an object was placed on the surface while less scatter points indicates that an object was removed from the surface.

The method of includes prompting by the surface computer in response to detecting the object placed on the surface a user regarding whether to scan the object. The surface computer may prompt a user regarding whether to scan the object according to the method of by rendering a dialog box on the surface that queries the user whether to scan the object. The dialog box may present the user with a choice of graphical user interface GUI buttons that allows the user to instruct the surface computer to scan the detected object or to refrain from scanning the detected object. In other embodiments the surface computer may prompt a user regarding whether to scan the object according to the method of by merely rendering a single scan button on the surface for the user to provide an indication on whether to scan the detected object. The user instructs the surface computer to scan the object by pressing the scan button. Readers will note that the exemplary manner of prompting a user described above is for explanation and not for limitation. Other ways of prompting a user regarding whether to scan the object as will occur to those of skill in the art are well within the scope of the invention.

The method of also includes receiving in response to prompting the user a user indication instructing the surface computer to scan the object. The surface computer may receive a user indication instructing the surface computer to scan the object according to the method of by detecting a particular gesture performed by the user at a particular location on the surface that represents an instruction from the user to the surface computer to scan the object. The particular gesture performed by the user may be implemented as the user selecting a GUI button operating a GUI component performing a particular hand or finger motion operation of a surface detectable electronic device and so on. Readers will note that the exemplary manner of receiving the user indication described above is for explanation and not for limitation. Other ways of receiving the user indication to scan the object as will occur to those of skill in the art are well within the scope of the invention including the use of voice commands or other input modalities.

The method of includes identifying by the surface computer a region of the surface upon which the object is placed. The surface computer may identify the region of the surface upon which the object is placed according to the method of by detecting the edges of the object placed on the surface and determining the region of the surface on which the object is placed in dependence upon the edges of the object. The surface computer may detect the edges of the object placed on the surface using surface image processing or frustrated total internal reflection as discussed above.

The method of also includes scanning by the surface computer using the scanner the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object. As mentioned above the surface computer received a user indication from the user instructing the surface computer to scan the object. Scanning the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object according to the method of therefore includes scanning in response to receiving the user indication the identified region of the surface to create an object image of the object. The surface computer may scan the identified region of the surface to create the object image according to the method of by scanning an entire scan able portion of the surface to create a surface image and selecting as the object image a portion of the surface image that corresponds to the identified region of the surface. That is the surface computer creates an image of the entire scan able portion of the surface and crops the image of the object from the image of the surface.

In other embodiments however the surface computer may scan the identified region of the surface to create the object image according to the method of by scanning only the identified region of the surface to create the object image of the object. That is the surface computer only generates a digital image of the portion of the surface on which the object is placed not of any other portions of the surface. The scanner of the surface computer may scan only the identified region of the surface to create the object image of the object by shining light on the object through only the identified region of the surface and receiving reflected light from the object. The scanner may then transform the reflected light into the object image using CCD technology CIS technology or any other technology as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes rendering by the surface computer the object image within the identified region without modifying portions of any other images rendered on the surface outside the identified region. The surface computer may render the object image within the identified region without modifying portions of any other images rendered on the surface outside the identified region according to the method of by altering the portion of the surface computer s memory that stores the content displayed on the identified region of the surface to contain the object image without alter the portion of the surface computer s memory that stores the content displayed outside identified region of the surface. In addition the surface computer may render the object image within the identified region according to the method of by rendering the object image as received from the scanner or by rendering the object image in a reverse orientation. Readers will note that rendering the object image as received from the scanner or rendering the object image in a reverse orientation are for explanation only and not for limitation. Other ways of rendering the object image as will occur to those of skill in the art may also be useful in displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described largely in the context of a fully functional computer system for displaying an image of an object placed on a surface computer. Readers of skill in the art will recognize however that the present invention also may be embodied in a computer program product disposed on a computer readable media for use with any suitable data processing system. Such computer readable media may be transmission media or recordable media for machine readable information including magnetic media optical media or other suitable media. Examples of recordable media include magnetic disks in hard drives or diskettes compact disks for optical drives magnetic tape and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Examples of transmission media include telephone networks for voice communications and digital data communications networks such as for example Ethernets and networks that communicate with the Internet Protocol and the World Wide Web as well as wireless transmission media such as for example networks implemented according to the IEEE 802.11 family of specifications. Persons skilled in the art will immediately recognize that any computer system having suitable programming means will be capable of executing the steps of the method of the invention as embodied in a program product. Persons skilled in the art will recognize immediately that although some of the exemplary embodiments described in this specification are oriented to software installed and executing on computer hardware nevertheless alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that modifications and changes may be made in various embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. The descriptions in this specification are for purposes of illustration only and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is limited only by the language of the following claims.

