---

title: Context-directed search
abstract: When categories are assigned to pieces of information, a search can be focused based on the categories. In an online forum, information is categorized by topic, and a search can be focused on the topic by adding additional search terms or restrictions to a search query, where the additional search terms or restrictions are based upon the categories. The restrictions may restrict the search to a particular web site that is determined based upon the category. In an online forum for answering questions, where the questions are categorized by topic, information related to a question may be located by performing a Web search for search terms extracted from the question. The search can be focused on relevant web sites restricting the search to sites that are related to the question's category. The results of the search may be displayed as related links alongside the question in the online forum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849855&OS=08849855&RS=08849855
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08849855
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070516
---
The present invention relates generally to information searching techniques and more specifically to searching for information relevant to a given query and further related to given contextual information.

Online forums such as Yahoo Answers Yahoo Groups and Yahoo Messages provide information that is categorized by topic. These online forums may allow users to ask questions or perform other queries on the information in the forum or on topics covered in the forum. In these forums information such as web pages relevant to the queries may also be generated by searching documents in a hyperlinked environment. The documents being searched may be for example web pages accessible on the Internet via the World Wide Web. The World Wide Web is an example of a hyperlinked environment. A question or a query posed by a user may form the search terms. In one example the search is carried out by a search engine that locates documents accessible by a network e.g. the Internet for which the contents of the documents match a search term. The search is typically text based where a document matches a search term if the document s text contains that search term.

In existing online forums since answers are located automatically by performing a text search for the question the search may locate a previously provided answer to the question but may also locate information that does not answer the question which can clutter the results and make the answer difficult to find in the search results. Answers may also be provided by other users but there is generally a time delay before another user provides an answer. Therefore it would be desirable to be able to focus the search for an answer on information relevant to the question.

In general in a first aspect the invention features a computer enabled method of searching documents in a hyperlinked environment. The method includes receiving a question that is associated with an information category extracting a search term from the question generating a search query based upon the search term adding at least one restricting term to the search query wherein the at least one restricting term is based upon the information category and conducting a search of the hyperlinked environment for at least one document that matches the search query.

Embodiments of the invention may include one or more of the following features. The method may include displaying at least one reference to the at least one document that matches the search query where the at least one reference is displayed in association with the question. The at least one document may include a web page and displaying at least one reference comprises displaying at least one link to the web page. The link may be displayed on a web page of an online forum in association with the question. The information category may include a named level in a hierarchy of categories provided by an online forum. Extracting a search term from the question may include selecting the search term from the question using a search term extractor. Generating a search query may include forming a disjunction of multiple search terms in response to the search term comprising multiple search terms. Adding at least one restricting term to the query may include adding a site scope modifier to the query wherein the site scope modifier restricts the query to at least one web site associated with the category. The method may include selecting the at least one web site associated with the category from a mapping table that associates the at least one web site with the category. Conducting the web search may include invoking a search engine to search at least one web site specified by the site scope modifier for the search term. The mapping table may be associated with an online forum. The at least one restricting term may be based upon user preference information associated with a user. The user preference information may include information associated with an online forum. The at least one document may include at least one web page and displaying a reference to the at least one document comprises displaying at least one link to the at least one web page.

In general in a second aspect the invention features a computer enabled method of finding information related to a question. The method includes receiving the question wherein the question relates to at least one information category determining at least one search term based upon the question selecting at least one web site corresponding to the at least one information category and conducting a web search of the at least one web site for the at least one search term.

Embodiments of the invention may include one or more of the following features. The method may include receiving at least one matching web page from the results of the web search and displaying in association with the question at least one link to the at least one matching web page. Displaying in association with the question at least one link may include including the at least one link in a web page that includes the question. The method may include making the web page that includes the question available for viewing by at least one user who views the question. Selecting at least one web site may include selecting the at least one web site from a mapping table that associates the at least one web site with the category. Conducting the web search may include invoking a search engine to search for the at least one search term and the at least one web site is provided to the search engine as a site scope modifier that restricts the search to the at least one web site. The search engine may be invoked to search for the at least one search term in response to the at least one search term comprising multiple search terms. Selecting at least one web site may include selecting the at least one web site based upon preference information associated with a user. Determining at least one search term may include selecting the at least one search term from the question using a search term extractor.

In general in a third aspect the invention features a computer enabled method of finding web pages related to a question. The method includes generating a search query based upon search terms extracted from the question in response to receipt of the question from an invoker adding at least one restricting term to the search query wherein the at least one restricting term is based upon a category associated with the question conducting a search for computer readable documents that match the search query and sending to the invoker at least one link produced by the search wherein the at least one link comprises at least one reference to at least one document that matches the search query.

Embodiments of the invention may include one or more of the following features. Generating a search query may include selecting at least one search term from the question using a search term extractor. Generating a search query may include forming a disjunction of multiple search terms in response to the at least one search term comprising multiple search terms. Adding at least one restricting term to the query may include adding a site scope modifier to the query wherein the site scope modifier restricts the query to at least one web site associated with the category. The site scope modifier may be determined based upon input received from a user. The method may include the step of selecting the at least one web site associated with the category from a mapping table that associates the at least one web site with the category. Conducting the web search may include invoking a search engine to search at least one web site specified by the site scope modifier for the at least one search term.

In general in a fourth aspect the invention features a computer program product comprising program code for searching documents in a hyperlinked environment. The computer program product includes program code for receiving a question wherein the question is associated with an information category program code for extracting at least one search term from the question program code for generating a search query based upon the at least one search term program code for adding at least one restricting term to the search query wherein the at least one restricting term is based upon the information category and program code for conducting a search of the hyperlinked environment for at least one document that matches the search query.

Embodiments of the invention may include one or more of the following features. The computer program product may include program code for displaying in association with the question at least one reference to the at least one document that matches the search query. Extracting at least one search term from the question may include selecting the at least one search term from the question using a search term extractor. Generating a search query may include forming a disjunction of multiple search terms in response to the at least one search term comprising multiple search terms. Adding at least one restricting term to the query may include adding a site scope modifier to the query wherein the site scope modifier restricts the query to at least one web site associated with the category. The computer program product may further include program code for selecting the at least one web site associated with the category from a mapping table that associates the at least one web site with the category wherein the mapping table associates categories with corresponding web sites and the mapping table further associates the at least one web site with the category. Conducting the web search may include invoking a search engine to at least one web site specified by the site scope modifier search for the at least one search term.

In general in a fifth aspect the invention features a computer program product comprising program code for finding web pages related to a question. The computer program product includes program code for generating a search query based upon search terms extracted from the question in response to receipt of the question from an invoker program code for adding at least one restricting term to the search query wherein the at least one restricting term is based upon a category associated with the question program code for conducting a search for computer readable documents that match the search query and program code for sending to the invoker at least one link produced by the search wherein the at least one link comprises at least one reference to at least one document that matches the search query. Generating a search query may include selecting at least one search term from the question using a search term extractor. Generating a search query may include forming a disjunction of multiple search terms in response to the at least one search term comprising multiple search terms. Adding at least one restricting term to the query may include adding a site scope modifier to the query wherein the site scope modifier restricts the query to at least one web site associated with the category. The computer program product may include program code for selecting the at least one web site associated with the category from a mapping table that associates the at least one web site with the category. Conducting the web search may include invoking a search engine to search at least one web site specified by the site scope modifier for the at least one search term.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of particular applications and their requirements. Various modifications to the embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Moreover in the following description numerous details are set forth for the purpose of explanation. However one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the invention might be practiced without the use of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the description of the invention with unnecessary detail. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

In one example a web browser application e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or the like executes on a client computer . The user e.g. a human interacts with the web browser by entering and viewing information such as questions and answers. Each user is identified by an associated user ID which is typically a name or number. The client computer communicates with a Web server via a network such as the Internet or another network. The web browser is not restricted to use on the World Wide Web and may be used to view documents and links in any hyperlinked environment e.g. a mobile phone. The web browser displays links and allows a user to follow a link e.g. by clicking on it using a mouse and cursor to view the document referenced by the link.

In one example the Web server provides one or more web site s that execute within the server such as answers.yahoo.com groups.yahoo.com or messages.yahoo.com in response a request for a specific URL . The web site s are for example server computers accessible by a network such as the Internet that provide documents referenced by links. For example a web site may be a site on the World Wide Web accessible by remote computers via the Internet. The web site may respond to requests received on the network from the client computer for documents specified by Uniform Resource Locators URL s by sending web pages to the client computer . A web site may provide one or more such documents retrievable by associated URL s. The web site s may be implemented as for example server pages using Java Server Pages JSP a server page framework or any other server implementation technique. The browser application sends a request for a URL to the web server see arrow . The Web server provides a web page of the web site that corresponds to the URL . The web page is displayed by the browser application e.g. as an original displayed page and an updated displayed page . The original displayed page is for example a web page with an input field for receiving the question . The updated displayed page is for example a web page on which the answer is displayed along with the question the category and the related links which are links to information that is related to the question. The related links are for example hyperlinks that refer to web pages that are related to the question . The related links include one or more links e.g. a first link a second link and an Nth link . The related links may also refer to advertisements. In one example the types of related links that can be generated include links to domain specific sites related to the category. Such domain specific sites provide information related to the domain i.e. domain knowledge. In another example the related links may be links to web sites of advertisers that trade in the domain e.g. advertisers in businesses or selling products related to the domain. The updated displayed page also displays a category which is typically the same as the category of the original displayed page .

The web site s may be any type of web site in which information e.g. web page content is associated with a category. For example the web site may be an information directory such as the Yahoo web site.

In one example the web site s provided by the Web server are online forums such as answers forums e.g. answers.yahoo.com in which answers are provided to questions asked by user s . The questions are associated with categories such as sports entertainment news and the like. Some site s or online forums are specialized for a particular subject area and provide information in that subject area. For example the site sports.yahoo.com specializes in sports information sports scores sports news and the like. In one example information relevant to a question may be found by searching specialized sites that specialize in the subject matter of the question. In one example these specialized sites may be selected from a mapping table that maps categories to sites. Therefore the category associated with a question may be used to determine specific web site s to search for information relevant to the question.

Answer forums typically have special presentation features for organizing user postings as questions and answers to questions. Answer forums also provide automated question answering which is a feature for providing one or more answers to a question soon after the question is asked. The automated question answering feature may for example look up previous answers to similar questions in a database or may perform a web search to find information that answers the question. The portion of the answer forum that performs automated question answering is shown in as question answering logic . The question answering logic may be for example computer program code that provides possible answers to a given question by for example searching a database for similar questions or searching the web or by any other means.

Other examples of online forums include group forums such as groups.yahoo.com in which users join groups that are devoted to particular topics and post messages in the groups and message forums such as messages.yahoo.com in which users post messages in particular categories. Although the three types of forums described here provide similar message posting features each type of forum may have special characteristics. In group forums users typically identify themselves e.g. log in before reading or writing messages. Some forums allow users to read and post messages anonymously. Other examples of forums include news web sites such as news.yahoo.com and travel sites such as travel.yahoo.com and the like.

Users may identify themselves in online forums by for example logging in to the web site by providing a user ID and password not shown . A user may post information such as a message or answer in an online forum and the posted information is associated with the user s user ID . The posted information is made available by the web site for other users to read. Users that identify themselves may provide additional information such as demographic data and preferences about how they prefer to access the forum.

In one example an original displayed page is displayed to a user on the client computer by the browser application . The original displayed page is generated by the Web server and sent to the client computer via a network such as the Internet see arrow . The original displayed page is a web page that provides an input field in which a user provides a question . A category may be associated with the question . The category may be for example an information category such as News Entertainment Sports Education or the like. The category may be a hierarchical path e.g. News Business Stocks where a broad information category e.g. News is followed by subcategories e.g. Business which is a subcategory of News and Stocks which is a subcategory of Business. The category may be related to the subject matter of the question .

A category may be assigned to the question in response to the user providing the question . For example a user may select the category for the question before entering the question into the displayed page . In another example the category may be assigned subsequently to the user providing the question e.g. by the question answering logic which may automatically select an appropriate category based on the words in the question or by the user who may select a category after entering the question .

In one example the question and optionally other information such as the category is sent to the web server in response to the user selecting or pressing the Submit button see arrow . The question and related information such as the category and the user ID form a question context . The web server passes the question context to the question answering logic which determines an answer for the question and sends the answer back to the browser application via the communication network see arrow . The answer may be sent back to the browser application as a web page or as a string or in any other format recognized by the browser application .

In one example when the user asks a question e.g. by entering the question as text in the original displayed page the context generator receives the question and the category as an input context see arrow . The input context includes a category and a question and possibly other information related to the question such as the user identifier which are the same as the respective category and question in the original displayed page . The input context may be the same as the question context sent to the question answering logic. The context generator uses the input context to generate the related links which are displayed as part of the updated displayed page see arrow . In one example the context generator is a browser plug in or script which is implemented as computer program code that executes on the client computer . The content generator may be implemented in a computer programming language such as the JavaScript programming language or the like.

The context generator includes search query generation logic restriction logic search result selection logic and search results display logic . The search query generation logic receives the input context see arrow and generates a query to be provided to a search engine . The search query generation logic generates the query by extracting search terms from the question by for example invoking a search term extractor see arrow . The search term extractor extracts search terms from a string by for example selecting commonly used words or phrases from the string or by using other search term extraction methods as known to those skilled in the art of data searching. Typically the search term extractor and the search engine are provided by a server computer accessible via the communication network and interactions with the extractor and search engine are performed via network invocations such as remote procedure calls or web service invocations.

The search query generation logic uses the extracted search terms to generate the query . In one example the query is generated by constructing a query that includes a disjunction of some or all of the extracted search terms. The expression house or boat is a disjunction of house and boat . A disjunction is in one example an expression formed by the logical or of two terms. In a search query a disjunction expression matches either of the two terms separated by an or operator.

If for example more than a threshold number e.g. 5 or 10 of search terms are returned then the query includes only the threshold number of search terms. If the search term extractor ranks or assigns a rating to the search terms then the highest ranked or rated search terms may be included in the query. In other examples a conjunction i.e. the logical and of the search terms may be used instead of the disjunction. In still other examples a disjunction may be used between some terms and a conjunction may be used between other terms in the query.

In one example restriction logic restricts the query e.g. by adding to the query additional search options or terms such as a site scope modifier that restricts the query to search specified web sites see arrow . A site scope modifier specifies that the search is to be restricted to searching one or more specific web sites specified by the site scope modifier. The site scope modifier is represented as a site parameter where X is a site to be searched. For example the site scope modifier site www.yahoo.com specifies that a query is to be restricted to searching the web site www.yahoo.com. The query house or boat site www.yahoo.com for example specifies that the site www.yahoo.com is to be searched for web pages containing either the word house or the word boat or both. The or between house and boat is a logical or which specifies that the query matches either of the terms separated by the word or i.e. house or boat so that a search for that query will return the web pages on the site www.yahoo.com that contain either house or boat or both. The site scope modifier may also be represented as a specific parameter value in an invocation of a web service search API.

The query may be augmented with restricting terms or options which are referred to herein as restrictions. The restriction logic uses the input context to determine restriction terms to be added to the query . In one example the restriction logic uses the category in the input context to generate a site scope modifier that restricts the search to web sites that correspond to the category . Restrictions may be generated based upon the category by consulting a mapping table that maps categories to corresponding restrictions. For example the following instance of the mapping table shows possible restrictions for three different categories.

Each entry in the Restriction column may include one or more restrictions associated with the corresponding entry for a given row in the Category column. A category may be associated with multiple restrictions in which case the multiple restrictions will be applied when the search is executed. The Restriction column shown above includes site scope restrictions but other types of restrictions are possible including additional search terms e.g. humanities site culture.yahoo.com would be a possible restriction for the Home Arts Humanities category. This restriction specifies that the search query includes the term humanities and the parameter site culture.yahoo.com when the search is associated with the Home Arts Humanities category.

In one example the particular entries in the mapping table e.g. the specific categories and corresponding restrictions are established by a system administrator or designer using an administrative interface. In one example users may customize the categories and restrictions. Users may for example customize the mapping table by supplying user defined categories and corresponding user defined restrictions. The user defined categories and restrictions may be added as a row in the mapping table . The particular contents of the mapping table are typically specific to a particular application such as forums hosted by a particular forum provider. The contents of the mapping table may be specific to a type of forum or to a particular user. For example a first mapping table such as the table shown above may be associated with a particular forum such as Yahoo Answers and a second mapping table may be associated with a different forum such as Yahoo Groups. In that case the particular mapping table associated with a forum is used in determining the restrictions to be applied to searches that originate in that forum.

Although the phrase mapping table is used herein to describe the association of categories to restrictions the association need not be represented as a table. Any type of association may be used such as a list of categories in which each entry includes a reference to an associated restriction. As another alternative the association may be provided by an API interface that hides the particular implementation of the association and simply allows associations between two data elements to be established and retrieved. The mapping table may be changed either by an administrator or based on user input or based on search results.

The search query generation logic invokes the search engine to search for documents e.g. web pages that match the query see arrow . The query may be represented as e.g. a string or as a set of objects and the representation of the query is passed to the search engine e.g. via an application programming interface API e.g. using a web service such as the Yahoo Search API or by invoking the search engine by submitting an HTTP request message that contains a string representation of the query in the appropriate HTML field. The search engine returns a set of links e.g. URL s that refer to documents or web pages that match the query . The set of links is passed to search result selection logic see arrow which selects some or all of the links and passes the selected links to search results display logic see arrow . If for example more than a threshold number e.g. 4 or 8 of links are returned by the search engine then the search result selection logic passes only the threshold number of links to the search results display logic arrow .

The search results display logic converts the set of links to a form suitable for display as the related links on the updated displayed page . For example if N links are selected by the search result selection logic the search result display logic constructs a displayable document e.g. in the Hypertext Markup Language HTML that will cause the browser application to display the N links in the related links area as Link Link through Link N . Each link may be displayed as a hyperlink would be displayed in an HTML document e.g. as one or more words of text displayed as underlined or blue text that a user can follow e.g. by clicking a mouse or other selection device while a cursor is positioned over the text to open the document or web page that the link refers to. An image may be displayed as a representation of each link and the user may click on the image to follow the link to open the document or web page that the link refers to. The related links are therefore displayed in association with e.g. on the same page as the answer . The user viewing the question and the answer may thus select one or more of the related links to view information related to the question .

Methods for generating web pages such as the updated displayed page with embedded links are known to those skilled in the art of web page design. The search results display logic may use such well known methods. The search results display logic may generate the updated displayed page or may generate the related links and pass them to another component that generates the updated displayed page or otherwise make them available for display in the updated displayed page .

Multiple different deployment configurations are possible for the logic components shown in . A particular deployment configuration i.e. arrangement of logic components on server computers may be chosen by an administrator or system designer as appropriate for the available resources and expected usage patterns. shows a deployment configuration in which a context generator is located on a server which may be the same as a web server or may be separate from the web server . The context generator is analogous to the context generator of and question answering logic is analogous to the question answering logic of . The logic components of the context generator including search query generation logic restriction logic search term extraction logic and search result selection logic perform methods analogous to the methods performed by the respective components of i.e. the search query generation logic the restriction logic the search result selection logic and the search results display logic . However the context generator may receive its input i.e. input context from a client computer via a communication network e.g. the Internet as a web service invocation and may return the related links to the client computer as a result value of the web service invocation. The question answering logic is shown executing on the web server . However the question answering logic may alternatively be located on another computer such as the server in which case the question would be sent by either the client computer or the web server to the question answering logic via the communications network.

In the example configuration of a browser application sends a request for a web page specified by an address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL to a web site identified by the URL see arrow . The request is sent via a communication network such as the Internet as for example a Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP request message. A web server receives the request and passes it to the web site e.g. answers.yahoo.com. The web site generates a representation of an original displayed page e.g. a Hypertext Markup Language HTML document that includes fields for a category a question and a submit button and sends the representation to the browser application as for example an HTTP reply message see arrow .

The browser application displays the original displayed page . The browser application may then receive a question and an optional category as input e.g. from a user in the original displayed page . Upon selection of a submit button e.g. in response to a user clicking a mouse while a cursor is positioned over the submit button the browser application sends the category and question as a question context to the web server arrow . The web server passes the question context to a web site e.g. server page that executes within the server e.g. answers.yahoo.com which may be implemented as for example a server page. Question answering logic which may execute on the web server or on a different server generates an answer to the question.

Depending on the particular configuration or deployment in use any of the browser application the web site or the question answering logic may send the question context to the context generator to generate the related links . The context generator receives the question context as a question context . The particular component that invokes the context generator to generate the related links and the timing of the invocation relative to the return of the answer by the question answering logic may be different in different configurations or embodiments. In some examples the question answering logic invokes the context generator see arrow and returns the answer and the related links together arrow . In other examples the question answering logic returns the answer separately arrow from the related links and the web site logic e.g. server page invokes the context generator see arrow A . In still other examples another component invokes the context generator . For example the browser application may invoke the context generator when the submit button is pressed see arrow B . The component that invokes the context generator uses a web service call and is referred to herein as an invoker . The web service call may be a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP call or may use any other protocol recognized by the invoker and the content generator . The context generator may execute on the same computer as the invoker in which the web service call may be an inter process or intra process invocation on the same computer. If the context generator executes on a separate computer from the invoker then the invoker sends the web service call as a request via the communication network to the context generator and receives the related links as a response from the context generator via the communication network.

The context generator generates related links as described above with respect to . The input context is passed to search query generation logic see arrow . The search query generation logic extracts search terms from the question by invoking search term extraction logic see arrows and . The search query generation logic constructs the logical or i.e. disjunction or logical and i.e. conjunction or other logical combination of the extracted search terms to form the query . The search query generation logic invokes restriction logic to restrict the query based upon the category see arrows and . The search query generation logic passes the query to a search engine see arrow and passes the search results returned by the search engine to search result selection logic see arrow . The context generator returns some or all of the search results selected by the search result selection logic to the invoker e.g. as return parameters in a remote method invocation. For example if the invoker is the question answering logic the search results are returned to the question answering logic see arrow A . If the invoker is the browser application the search results are returned to the browser application see arrow B . The invoker constructs the related links and causes them to be displayed in the updated displayed page along with the category the question and the answer . The category and the question of the updated displayed page are typically the same as the category and the question of the original displayed page .

The web site interface corresponds to the updated displayed page of . The answer is generated by the question answering logic and the related links are generated by the context generator of . The related links correspond to the related links of . In the example of the related links include a first link for which text The European Enlightenment is displayed a second link Age of Enlightenment Wikipedia a third link Renaissance Wikipedia and a fourth link WebMuseum Le Renaissance . Each link is associated with a reference to a document e.g. a URL that refers to a web page. The user may select one or more of the related links to view the document or web page referenced by that link.

Block adds one or more restricting terms to the query to narrow the search to a specific site e.g. by adding a site parameter or to a more specific subject matter e.g. by adding additional search terms to the query. Block typically uses the category to determine the restricting terms. For example block may select the restriction from a mapping table such as the mapping table of . If the mapping table is represented as an SQL database table that has columns for the category and corresponding restriction the restriction that corresponds to a given category C can be selected by executing a SQL statement such as select restriction from MappingTable where category C . For example to find the restriction for the category C Arts Humanities History block executes the select statement and retrieves the result set which contains the restricting term s . In this example the restricting term returned in the result set would include the value site culture.yahoo.com . Block adds the restricting term s e.g. site culture.yahoo.com to the query generated in block . Therefore the example query would be Renaissance or Enlightenment site culture.yahoo.com .

Block searches for documents matching the query. For example block may execute a web search by invoking a search service e.g. the Yahoo Web Search API. The search service returns a set of links to documents such as URL s of web pages where the documents match the query. For example web pages on the site culture.yahoo.com that contain either the word Renaissance or the word Enlightenment would match the aforementioned example query. Block displays the link s if any returned by the search e.g. by generating an HTML representation of the links. Block typically displays the link s on the same web page as the answer to the question e.g. by generating an HTML representation that can be embedded the web page that displays the answer to the question. In one example block displays a subset of the links returned by the query e.g. the first 5 links or the top 5 links most relevant to the query. The answer to the question is typically determined by question answering logic such as the question answering logic of .

Computing system can also include a main memory such as random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computing system may likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

The computing system may also include information storage system which may include for example a media drive and a removable storage interface . The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a CD or DVD drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive. Storage media may include for example a hard disk floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by and written to by media drive . As these examples illustrate the storage media may include a computer readable storage medium having stored therein particular computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments information storage system may include other similar components for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into computing system . Such components may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface such as a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory module and memory slot and other removable storage units and interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computing system .

Computing system can also include a communications interface . Communications interface can be used to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Examples of communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet or other NIC card a communications port such as for example a USB port a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel may carry signals and may be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface a local or wide area network and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program product computer readable medium and the like may be used generally to refer to media such as for example memory storage device or storage unit . These and other forms of computer readable media may be involved in storing one or more instructions for use by processor to cause the processor to perform specified operations. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable the computing system to perform features or functions of embodiments of the present invention. Note that the code may directly cause the processor to perform specified operations be compiled to do so and or be combined with other software hardware and or firmware elements e.g. libraries for performing standard functions to do so.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer readable medium and loaded into computing system using for example removable storage drive drive or communications interface . The control logic in this example software instructions or computer program code when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

The methods disclosed herein allow a user to scan tables of numbers and quickly identify the important information. Aggregating and visually highlighting the streak information provides information that is not readily available in existing statistics displays.

It will be appreciated that for clarity purposes the above description has described embodiments of the invention with reference to different functional units and processors. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units processors or domains may be used without detracting from the invention. For example functionality illustrated to be performed by separate processors or controllers may be performed by the same processor or controller. Hence references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with some embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. Rather the scope of the present invention is limited only by the claims. Additionally although a feature may appear to be described in connection with particular embodiments one skilled in the art would recognize that various features of the described embodiments may be combined in accordance with the invention.

Furthermore although individually listed a plurality of means elements or method steps may be implemented by for example a single unit or processor. Additionally although individual features may be included in different claims these may possibly be advantageously combined and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that a combination of features is not feasible and or advantageous. Also the inclusion of a feature in one category of claims does not imply a limitation to this category but rather the feature may be equally applicable to other claim categories as appropriate.

Moreover it will be appreciated that various modifications and alterations may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but is to be defined according to the claims.

