---

title: Policy-based physical security system for restricting access to computer resources and data flow through network equipment
abstract: Embodiments are directed to systems and methods for integration and normalization of physical security data, states and events to and from disparate physical security systems to maintain in real-time rules based policy state information to enforce physical security policies uniformly across network and information technology (IT) systems. Moreover it pertains specifically to such apparatus for providing an integration platform, methods and processes for normalizing data from physical security systems, to maintain physical security states, mapping to network access and either directly affecting the network equipment through standard programming commands or providing interfaces for network equipment and IT applications to query and determine physical security access states thus enforcing rules in real-time based on security systems data and events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111088&OS=09111088&RS=09111088
owner: Quantum Security, Inc.
number: 09111088
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070814
---
The present application claims the benefit of the U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 837 754 entitled Method process system and apparatus for building and maintaining policy based physical security service states in real time that are mapped to network access data flow and application security policies for the purpose of enforcing and affecting access to applications and data flow through network equipment and filed on Aug. 14 2006. The present application is related to co pending U.S. Patent Application entitled Physical Access Control and Security Monitoring System Utilizing a Normalized Data Format filed concurrently herewith.

The embodiments provided herein relate generally to physical security systems and more specifically to a system for integrating disparate security systems using a rules based policy engine and normalized data format.

Physical security systems include equipment and processes that implement physical security measures for incidents access control monitoring systems lighting security audits inspection facility management building automation and the like. Almost all businesses large commercial and government facilities and many homes utilize physical security systems to alert owners and operators about potentially harmful activities such as intrusion theft fire flooding gas leaks and so on. Physical Security Systems can comprise a wide range of functions such as access control safety and security and video surveillance that helps protect monitor or control threats to an organization. Many large businesses and entities also employ access control systems that monitor and control personnel access to physical resources such as buildings and offices and even asset movement e.g. products or material to and from the premises. These systems generally consist of a repository of individual records and access privileges and control access control hardware such as readers for example cards biometric sensors and controllers for example door controllers for allowing or disallowing access to physical resources.

Many different physical security systems are available on the market and are manufactured by a variety of vendors each of which may have its own standards of data representation and exchange. Large entities such as big corporations or government departments may utilize multiple physical access control systems distributed across the world or even within certain locations such as a single building. These can have multiple representations of individuals or assets and non uniform policies for access to physical resources. Besides the representation of entities within the system alarm triggering events can also be represented differently among different vendors or even within different security systems from a single vendor. The access and alarm events from different physical security systems generally do not follow standard definitions. This prevents the creation of uniform policy enforcement and compliance procedures across corporations and multiple systems.

Some attempts have been made to standardize the communication protocols between various building automation systems. One such communication protocol is BACnet for automation and control systems for HVAC heating ventilating and air conditioning lighting control etc. Such communication standards however are limited to building automation functions and do not provide seamless integration with other physical security or network security control systems.

An important area of security and control in many modern businesses and organizations is computers information systems networks and telecommunications security. Network equipment such as routers control the flow of network packets for IT and network applications such as e mail Internet access file transfers e.g. FTP and so on. Network packet routing by network equipment such as routers and security by firewalls is typically performed independently of physical security states or events. Physical security access data and events from physical access control systems monitoring and surveillance systems such as video building lighting and control systems fire HVAC temperature humidity control systems etc are generally not factored in real time for either determining individual s access to network and applications resources or affecting the behavior of the network to either enforce security policies or mitigate security risks.

What is needed therefore is a system for integrating and normalizing physical security data states and events from disparate physical security systems devices and sensors to maintain in real time rules based policy state information to enforce physical security policies uniformly across network and information technology IT systems.

Conversely what is also needed is a system for integrating data states and events information from network and information technology systems to maintain in real time rules based policy state information to enforce network and IT system policies uniformly across physical security systems and infrastructure.

What is further needed is a method of relating mapping and correlating IT network systems policies with physical security systems policies and vice versa physical systems policies with network IT systems policies on IP based network appliances like a router firewall computer etc. such that such appliances become physical security policy aware and can affect the behavior of the network or IT systems or physical security systems to either enforce security policies or mitigate security risks.

What is further needed is a system that provides an integration platform to maintain physical security states and enforce rules in real time based on security system data and events and conversely affect the behavior of security systems based on rules defined on IT and network systems data states and events.

Each publication patent and or patent application mentioned in this specification is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety to the same extent as if each individual publication and or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Embodiments are directed to systems and methods for integration and normalization of physical security data states and events from disparate physical security systems to maintain in real time rules based policy state information to enforce physical security policies uniformly across network and information technology IT systems. Physical security systems include equipment and processes that implement physical security measures for incidents access control monitoring systems lighting security audits inspection facility management building automation and the like. Embodiments pertain specifically to such apparatus for providing an integration platform methods and processes for normalizing data from physical security systems to maintain physical security states mapping to network access and either directly affecting the network equipment through standard programming commands or providing interfaces for network equipment and IT applications to query and determine physical security access states thus enforcing rules in real time based on security system data and events.

In the following description numerous specific details are introduced to provide a thorough understanding of and enabling description for embodiments of an integrated physical security monitoring and control system. One skilled in the relevant art however will recognize that these embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other components systems and so on. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown or are not described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the disclosed embodiments.

Aspects of the one or more embodiments described herein may be implemented on one or more computers executing software instructions. Such computers are typically distributed among different facilities in a wide area or even global scale network that may be connected in a client server arrangement or similar distributed computer network. illustrates a computer network system that implements one or more embodiments. In system a network server computer is coupled directly or indirectly to one or more network client computers or computing devices through a network . The network interface between server computer and the client computers may include one or more routers that serve to buffer and route the data transmitted between the server and client computers and network may be the Internet a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN or any combination thereof.

One or more of the network client computers may be deployed in a building or facility that is used by a business or as a residence to control one or more computer based physical security systems. Thus as shown in facility contains a physical security system that controls security elements such as alarms and monitors and sensors . Facility may represent a house or office building or any other type of structure that contains some level of physical security infrastructure. The alarm and monitor elements of the physical security systems represent various access control monitoring surveillance sensor or other asset protection mechanisms that may be employed throughout the facility. These can be independent elements that are configured to detect and report different types of events such as fire gas leaks intrusion computer hacking physical proximity and any other similar type of event. Such systems can thus be used to control personnel access within a facility and to detect unauthorized access by inside or outside personnel as well as to detect natural events such as fires earthquakes etc. Detection of any such event can be used to alert proper officials and or automatically invoke protection mechanisms such physical shutdown backup of computers turning on lights and so on.

In one embodiment the physical security system embodies physical access control systems PACS that allow access to physical facilities of an organization or entity government commercial or private . These systems allow users to gain access to resources location and assets of the entity through various access means such as ID s access cards passwords biometric data and so on. In one embodiment the physical security system may be a managed physical security system MPSS that is managed by a standard policy based software application to apply uniform corporate security policies. These can include any system that is employed for ensuring physical security of personnel and assets as well as monitoring of incidents and activity plus automation of building management and environment control systems.

Facility represents another possible facility that includes its own physical security system that controls respective alarm and monitoring subsystems. In general the physical security systems deployed by each facility may be provided by different vendors and therefore produce data that is unique or proprietary. Indeed even a system within a particular facility may need to deal with disparate types of data from the various alarms and monitors within the facility.

The physical security system can be embodied in a client computer that is a workstation or personal computer PC class computer. Alternatively such a system can also be implemented on any type of computing device or a mobile computing or communication device such as a notebook computer personal digital assistant PDA mobile phone game console or any similar class of mobile computing device with sufficient processing communication and control or AV audiovisual playback capability.

In one embodiment server in network system is a server computer that executes an integrated physical security management process . This process generally comprises hardware and or software components to achieve integration normalization rules creation and processing of physical security systems data and events in different facilities such as facilities and . The integrated physical security management process includes functional components that perform the tasks of integrating non standard and proprietary data from disparate and numerous sensor alarm and monitoring systems within and among different facilities. In one embodiment the integrated physical security management process includes a normalization process that normalizes of disparate security systems data to a standard data format for example access control and alarm data. It also includes processes to generate unique physical access credentials to provide an exclusive mapping between an individual s profile job department location and so on and an organization s spatial hierarchy of its global physical security system deployments doors buildings lockers safes and so on . For personnel control the integrated physical security management process is configured to generate unique physical access credentials based on individual profiles to automatically assign credentials across multiple global physical security systems to overcome certain limitations e.g. memory constraints of standard access control systems. The process stores and provides uniform access of cross system data in normalized form. For this embodiment certain information regarding human resources HR such as organizational charts privileges passwords and so on may be provided by an external data source such as data store coupled to a separate server computer .

To facilitate creation and deployment physical and IT information technology security systems are created through object stencils for use with visual policy editors. A central rules engine is included for the creation of standard rules and actions on physical security system data with visual policy editors generating a formatted rule for example in XML format for the rules engine. The process allows for processing of rules in real time to generate actions affecting access control systems and other integrated network and IT management systems or applications and it provides rules based workflows across integrated physical security networking and IT systems. Where appropriate the process provides integration with industry standard systems to provide actionable event data. For this embodiment certain information regarding the IT components such as LAN and WAN network topographies computer specifications user names passwords and so on may be provided by an external data source such as data store coupled to a separate server computer .

The application of the integrated physical security management process to IT applications is an important aspect of the overall integration feature of system . Information Technology includes many aspects of computing technology to serve the computing communication and data storage needs of an organization. These include database systems and management computer networking software application and management information systems. Thus IT Systems span a variety of computers and computer software to convert store protect process transmit and retrieve information. Examples of IT systems include corporate directory servers that contain listing and information on an organization s users and other assets and information from which can be obtained by other applications using various standard protocols such LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol . Another example are corporate data repositories which include small to large database systems that contain various informational transactional and audit data stored by various applications and users of the data and human resources systems which are applications and data repositories that contain corporate personnel information and data. IT systems also include e mail servers which are applications and servers that enable email communication and web applications and servers that are made available to end users through HTTP to be used with standard web browsers.

In one embodiment the server computer includes an optional World Wide Web WWW server or server clustering environment that stores data in the form of web pages and transmits these pages as Hypertext Markup Language HTML files over the Internet to the client computers. For this embodiment the client computers typically run a web browser program to access the web pages served by server computer and any available content provider or supplemental server such as computers and .

As shown in any of the processes executed on any of the client and or server computers may also be referred to as modules or components and may be standalone programs executed locally on the respective client computer or they can be portions of a distributed client application run on the client or a network of client computers. Thus the integrated physical security management process may represent one or more executable programs modules that are stored within network server and executed locally within the server. Alternatively process may be stored on a remote storage or processing device coupled to server or network and accessed by server to be locally executed. In a further alternative embodiment the integrated physical security management process may be implemented in a plurality of different program modules each of which may be executed by two or more distributed server computers coupled to each other or to network separately. Throughout the description the terms module component and process may be used interchangeably to mean an computer program routine or subroutine that is executed on any of the server and or client computers of and may be implemented as software firmware or programmed hardware.

For an embodiment in which network is the Internet network server executes a web server process to provide HTML objects typically in the form of web pages to client computers coupled to the network. To access the HTML files provided by server the client computers execute web browser processes that accesses web pages available on server and resources such as supplemental server . The client computers may access the Internet through an Internet Service Provider ISP . Content for any of the programs or data associated with the physical security systems used by the client computer may be provided by a data store closely or loosely coupled to any of the servers and or each client computer. A separate content provider may provide some of the data that is provided to the integrated physical security management process . Although data store is shown coupled to the network server it should be noted that content data may be stored in one or more data stores coupled to any of the computers of the network such as network client or to devices within the network itself.

The integrated physical security management process interconnects and integrates with disparate physical security systems normalizes the communication data commands and events from these different systems into a common standard format. A management function provides a mode of visual representation of the normalized physical security systems data and processes and visual policy objects define the design time behavior for flexible and actionable rule creation. illustrates an interconnection stack for integration of disparate physical security systems under an embodiment. In general stack represents layers in a network system that includes dedicated devices software systems and applications that are responsible for internetworking configuration management and monitoring of computer networks. These systems perform various functions as defined by the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model of ISO international Standards Organization and ITU International Telecommunication Union . Internetworking devices support different media interfaces and communication protocols and connect different computing systems as well as other peer devices to create a wide variety of local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN such as the Internet. These devices include hubs switches bridges and routers that connect various segments of a network. These systems are based on standard protocols for network communication at the media wire level including LAN Ethernet defined by IEEE 802.3 Wireless LAN WiFi defined by IEEE 802.11 ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol UDP User Datagram Protocol ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol OSPF Open Shortest Path First RIP Routing Information Protocol and IPSec IP Security . Network services systems include network equipment and applications that provide services used by end users and or other computing systems. Such application protocols for services include VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol RoIP Radio over Internet Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol FTP File Transfer Protocol SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol POP3 Post Office Protocol version 3 DNS Domains Name System VPN Virtual Private Networking that is used to securely tunnel a corporation s network traffic through various networks. Additionally there are software applications that complement the network devices by providing functionality for configuring the network and also monitoring the network for alarms and performance. These systems are based on standard protocols for configuration and monitoring these include SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol CMIP Computer Management Information Protocol and OSS Operations Support Systems . The process takes system specific data and commands and conforms them to the appropriate application protocol communication protocol and the media layers.

The integrated physical security management process includes multi communication media and application interfaces to connect with disparate multi vendor and distributed physical security systems as well as software applications and networking systems. An integration layer contains agents and adapters with built in intelligence for multiple physical security systems and supports extensibility through mapping of application protocols command and data formats for integration with new and emerging physical security systems. It also normalizes the communication data commands and events from the disparate physical security systems to a common standard format. This common representation can be used by applications rules engines and other standard software components while still maintaining communication to the respective physical security systems applications and devices in their native proprietary format. This eliminates the need for the customer to perform costly replacements in order to achieve rules bases integration and interoperability.

In one embodiment the integrated physical security management process includes a number of constituent modules that normalize security system data create policy rules and process the data and events of physical security systems. is a block diagram that illustrates the major components of an integrated physical security management process under an embodiment. As shown in integrated physical security management process includes an integration framework component that provides certain processes to interconnect physical security systems to an orchestration and policies module . The integration framework supports different transport protocols and can be configured to interconnect disparate systems through standardized system and data mapping definitions. Once connected the systems receive and send data and events to each other normalized through policies that are based on the rules defined by the system. The policy orchestration component defines processes to describe the data and event mapping and transformations between physical security systems and data stored in a system data repository as well as other network or IT systems.

The system policies are defined on normalized data and events using a visual policy editor. The system provides embeddable software objects and processes to enable drag and drop capability for policy creation on physical security and other systems connected through the integration framework . In one embodiment system policies are described in standard XML Extensible Markup Language that is loaded on the rules engine. At run time the rules engine enforces the rules on the access control data and events passing to and from the systems connected through the integration framework . The rules engine controls the persistence and distribution of physical access changes as well as correlates security events to create actionable alarms and alerts for management applications supervisory staff or physical security network or IT systems. The defined policies can furthermore connect to systems of record for data verification and rules enforcement in real time. For example corporate directory services such as provided by data store can be used to verify the authenticity of a person requesting access to a building through a physical security system.

The integrated physical security management process includes one or more functional modules . These functional modules are web based modules that utilize the services provided by the underlying core functionality of integration and policies primarily to configure and view integrations between systems visually create and edit policies enforced by the system report and edit personnel data view alarms and alerts and policy actions through configurable reports among other similar functions. Process also includes one or more enterprise applications serving various business functions. These can be flexibly built using the functional modules by adequately trained software professionals managing physical network and IT security software applications. A data repository or data store provides the normalized definitions schema audit trail and persistence of data and events from across multiple disparate security network and IT systems. The data store maintains a record of all changes received and propagated and in one embodiment utilizes industry standard data warehousing technologies.

The integrated physical security management process of also includes network interfaces component . This component is configured to maintain physical security access information and states within a site by maintaining access information per individual or group defined in the security systems in real time. Events communicated from security systems are captured by the system to maintain dynamic states of access permissions and real time actual physical access. Similarly events communicated by the physical security systems are processed to maintain alarm and alert status for physical locations and individuals or groups which is then correlated to physical security access permissions and real time access records.

The network interfaces component includes a network command and query interface that allows querying of security state information by network and IT equipment in real time to affect network data transmission and IT applications access in real time. The physical security services can directly affect the data flow on interconnected network equipment through the issuance of control commands mapped in real time from physical security states. Commands and events generated by the network interface can alternatively be sent to network management applications which in turn manage network equipment globally.

In one embodiment the integrated physical security management process incorporating network interfaces processes physical security data and events by a physical security service PSS module to maintain physical security infrastructure state in real time. This generally provides real time availability of physical security states to network equipment or software applications for affecting data flow on network equipment or controlling behavior of software application in compliance with security policies. The PSS module is implemented directly on the network equipment in the form of software module dedicated hardware module connected through common device backplane or discrete network equipment or similar implementation. It is integrated with and receives physical and network security access privilege definitions from physical network and IT security systems in the specific formats of multiple vendor systems and normalizes these definitions to a standardized form. The PSS module interfaces with physical security systems directly over multiple communication interfaces and protocols such as serial communication or Internet Protocol IP to receive physical security system data and event transmissions in real time. It processes physical security system data and events in real time to build active access lists and states for physical access control systems and provides standardized mapping of physical security states and events to network equipment policies for network traffic. The PSS is configured to apply physical security states of access control privileges and events to network equipment data transmission policies thereby controlling the data flow. Policies are applied through standard or network equipment specific configuration management and provisioning interfaces. It also provides standard interfaces for network and IT equipment to subscribe to or query in real time physical security states and policies from the PSS module.

In one embodiment the PSS module is configured to directly extract physical security data and events from network traffic to build physical security states. It receives network data packets bearing physical security systems data and events directly from integrated or connected network equipment and handles the configuration and mapping of physical security system data and event sources to packet transmission policies on network equipment and applies the system defined policies to desired network equipment to receive physical security system events directly for processing. In this manner the overall process can map correlate and apply in real time uniform physical and network security policies to network data.

In one embodiment a PSS module is embedded implemented or deployed as a software or hardware module on the network equipment itself. The PSS module includes an integration framework component that is responsible for receiving the physical security systems data and events in multi protocol multi vendor format that is normalized and standardized to build and maintain state information based on policies and rules. It is also responsible for similarly receiving the rules and configuration information from policy management systems through the network interfaces . Network equipment can be configured to route physical security related data traffic to integration framework component so that it can be suitably processed. A policy orchestration component examines and processes all physical security data and events in order to apply the configured rules. The rules determine the action to be taken and eventually the state that should be maintained for all physical security access and events. Rules based event and data correlation results in actionable state information for IT network and other security systems. The physical security state engine within the PSS module is the real time high speed repository and access interface to all the security states defined in the system. Physical security states correlate physical security system data and events to access permissions for individuals groups corporate geographical or other defined domains on the network applications or other secured IT or physical assets.

A network command and query interface within PSS module is responsible for mapping physical security states to network and applications operational characteristics to grant deny or restrict access. Network and IT systems can query the interface on demand to obtain the latest states information and resultant actions affecting security privileges. Alternatively the system can be configured to interface directly with the network modules and relay commands or data that result in the desired change for security access to network or applications.

System illustrates several possible connectivity options with physical security systems . Physical security systems that rely on proprietary means of communication media and data formats for access control data and events are connected over the network through integration modules and their data is normalized by the integration framework component . Physical security systems that are IP enabled and can communicate data and events directly over Internet Protocol transmission. Physical access control elements such as door controllers readers and video cameras are connected to the network interfaces component through a field devices integration module . Further interface to the system can be provided by a dedicated management apparatus .

As shown in the PSS modules are coupled to separate physical security services equipment through integration components or direct IP integration in the case of IP enabled security systems . Physical access control elements such as door controllers readers and video cameras are connected to the network interfaces component through a field devices integration module .

In one embodiment the integrated physical security management process includes a system orchestration framework layer that integrates and routes data from disparate and distributed physical security systems. The data and events are received in the native format of the individual systems such as lighting control devices access readers door controllers infrared sensors card readers and personnel access control systems e.g. Lenel OnGuard C Cure AMAG etc. and physical security protocols such as BACnet oBIX etc. . Basic sensor or agent data is transmitted through corresponding agents or interfaces and various web based or proprietary HR resource protocols can be handled by OEM original equipment manufacturer adapters. All of the disparate data is routed to the integration layer of the system orchestration framework which is configurable to support the multiple physical media network protocol and data formats that can be used to integrate with various systems. Additionally data changes and events can also be received from networking systems and IT applications.

In one embodiment the data and events received from various systems are aggregated in accordance with defined data mapping and translation schemes. This normalizes the data and events into standardized format that enables processing by the policies and persistence in the data repository. Similarly physical security events actions and data generated or propagated through the system to various physical network and IT security systems is normalized and standardized to formats recognized by the respective systems.

The policy orchestration framework layer within block works to pass the physical security related data for example personnel credentials and access privileges and events for example alerts from physical security systems network and IT applications to the system for processing. A workflow module then applies relevant transformation and routing rules to the events and data to generate action events for example alerts emails or SNMP alarms on the physical security related actionable data for example personnel credentials and access privileges .

In one embodiment the integrated physical security management process provides a normalized physical security integration environment in which rules can be created to uniformly address the following main types of entities physical security systems and devices e.g. PACS and sensors data e.g. users access events commands and processes automated cross checks schedules reference lookups approvals and notifications . Visual rule building block objects are created in a data model to represent the normalized physical security systems devices data and processes. The representation of the systems and data includes the data mapping formatting hierarchical and other relationships and the commands specific to the individual types of systems. This includes not only the physical security systems but other source applications as well as consumers of the data events and commands that can be either received or generated from the system. The representation of the processes includes mapping and attributes to support the ability to design security operations related workflows which can include cross checks references and interaction with users applications and other systems. The visual rule objects contain attributes that define their spatial relationship to other building blocks that are used to represent normalized systems data and processes. Such building blocks are also referred to as stencil shapes or live objects. The rule objects represent normalized systems data and events and reference back to the data repository even during design time to provide data lookups and references related to the rule relationship being created. Thus each object exposes rule attributes and allows the user to define values during design time that are to be used during rule execution. A rule object s attribute values can be a specific entered manually or looked up from real values during design time b wildcards or c implicit obtained from the lookup of an external system during rule execution time or from the incoming data . For example if the rule shows person credentials being received from a Corp HR Directory e.g. using LDAP protocol and the person s role being checked to provision into a Lenel type of physical access control system then the user who is designing the rule would only see Person attributes AND possible values related to the normalized representation of the HR system thus creating a convenient effective system of rule creation. This is done through real time communication of the design time front end visual editor to the backend data repository normalized system and rules definitions. As the rule is created using a visual policy editor using drag and drop graphical user interface techniques interconnection of rule objects and setting their properties the user is guided through the creation as well as the rule design validated in real time before finally being saved and pushed to the rules engine for execution. The rules engine is a software module that applies the defined rules on the data transactions processed by the system.

The rules engine is a software module that applies the defined rules on the data transactions processed by the system. A policy is a user defined logical entity that acts as a container for rules that are contained in the policy definition. An administrator typically creates a policy and then adds rules to the policy. Multiple policies can be created in the system. Policies are logical entities that allow easy grouping of rules in order to understand view enable and order them as one group. Rules are the actual lowest level combination of Condition Action that is applied to the data objects processed by the system. The policy manager applies one rule at a time to the data passing through the system.

The external responses of block can be configured depending on the requirements and constraints of each monitored facility. These include the generation of audible alarms notification of authorities e.g. fire police medical notification of company personnel e.g. security officers corporate officers IT managers . In the case of physical intrusion the system can be configured to physical shutdown areas of the facility or implement any type of lockdown mode to prevent further access or escape from any intruder. In the case of an IT intrusion event the system can be configured to shutdown computer resources to prevent access and in the event of a physical catastrophe such as fire or earthquake the system can be configured to initiate automatic computer backup procedures or open fire escape doors and provide illumination and so on.

As shown in the PSS module is integrated directly into physical security equipment. illustrates the integration of physical security to network systems under an embodiment. illustrates an example of normalization processing correlation and integration of various physical security systems commands events messages and alarms with network systems. Examples of physical security systems include but are not limited to identity and credentialing systems Physical Access Control management and monitoring systems based on physical surveillance events alarms and video and building automation and management . Examples of networking systems include but are not limited to subscriber and services provisioning systems for provisioning users as well as granting them special services access or enabling disabling network services as per corporate policies network management systems NMS for centralized alarm monitoring responding to physical security events and applying policies for the protection and availability of critical network resources. Other networking systems include network services network services configured to prioritize network traffic and automatically respond to security events and radio phone IP communication systems . The data objects and events for the networking systems and physical security systems are all integrated within the normalization and policy engine for the normalization of data and the application of defined rules to perform specified functions. For example fire sensors can inform operators to start remote backups network and IP services systems that can be directly controlled to prioritize traffic and auto respond to security events. In this case the data from the physical sensors is normalized to conform to the system and the applied rules effect the desired response.

As shown in system the normalization and policy engine receives signals from radio phone IP communication systems device service alerts and logs NMS events and alarms as well as network devices and services . The data from these sources is normalized the defined rules are applied and control signals are then output to various control systems such as building automation security monitoring systems and PACS systems .

An example installation of the PSS module is a network management system NMS which provides the framework and applications that are used by network managers to configure and monitor large enterprise network infrastructure. A commonly used model and framework aptly described the functions performed by NMS and their operators. A Fault Configuration Accounting Performance and Security FCAPS component of network devices and systems correlates to the OSI model for design and intercommunication of telecommunications and network systems. These functions are performed by the Network Management Systems using standard management information MIB provided and protocols supported by various network devices systems and even applications. Systems can communicate fault configuration accounting performance and security events using different standards based protocols defined by the industry and standards organizations. Examples include Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP Common Management Information Protocol CMIP Command Line Interface CLI Syslog XML and TLV formats etc.

Operations Support Systems OSS are used in telecom and networking to manage the data processes services and related applications. The term most often refers to the systems that are used to manage the access and core elements of the network in order to provide services to the end users or subscribers . One such example is the provisioning de provisioning of subscribers for access to common network services such as a Cellular wireless b Enterprise VPN and c DSL or Cable Internet access. Subscriber Management Systems and Billing or Business Support Systems are also similar functional subsets of OSS systems. Protocols and standards have been defined by industry consortiums and standards bodies for applications and network systems. These standards and protocol example includes OSS J CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture and Command Line Interfaces CLI offered by various network equipment vendors. Network or IP Services loosely refers to an array of subscriber and application oriented services based on capable network devices and protocols. More specifically this refers to the capability of the underlying network devices and systems to offer these services in a highly configurable and manageable manner to suit a variety of subscriber needs options and service level agreements. Examples include Quality of Service QoS Differentiated Services DiffServ Traffic Shaping Policing Accounting Service Level Agreement SLA Firewall VPN etc. for Voice Video and Data. Present physical security systems typically lack the capability to influence the state of network systems based on changes in the subscriber s or enterprise s business security environment. Similarly they lack standards based integration to be affected by the state of the network systems. Thus the two critical systems in an enterprise network and physical security have traditionally operated in their own hard walled silos.

In one embodiment the PSS module of the integrated physical security system supports rules based integration of physical security systems with network systems. This is possible through the integration layer that has support for disparate technology based physical access control systems and the components that support network protocol and management interfaces out of the box. Mapping of data commands operations and processes is done through the policy manager for events and data flowing from either physical security systems to network systems or vice versa. The system normalizes physical security messages and the policy manager translates various conditions into commands messages alarms or network calls in order to convey the state or alter behavior of the networking system.

Following are certain examples of network protocols that the PSS module can utilize in order to receive events or send commands events to networking systems.

The following example defines an alarm Trap in SNMP terminology which is generated by a network device system or application containing details in the objects defined in it. The receiving party uses information such as this to understand the format of the data received in the trap and thus create actions and rules to respond to it.

Syslog is a method to collect messages from devices to a server running a syslog daemon. Logging to a central syslog server helps in aggregation of logs and alerts. Network vendor s devices can send their log messages to a SYSLOG service.

The following are examples of accounting log entries created by a networking system for subscriber activity. Accounting log activity can be defined for various events in the system especially pertaining to the usage of a service such as ATM Firewall VPN security services and so on.

Time Stamp Tue Aug 07 14 24 53 PDT 2007 Log ID 46053 Area ID 1 Device ID 4 ISP ID 6 Subscriber ID 21 Subscriber Instance 4 Type Admin Info Session Started

Time Stamp Tue Aug 07 16 39 06 PST 2007 Log ID 10 Area ID 1 Device ID 1 ISP ID 2 Subscriber ID 635 Subscriber Instance 4 Type Statistics Info Pkts bytes 0 In Out 1 In Out 2 In Out . . . .

Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA based application programming interfaces API are provided by many networking systems to allow creation of applications that can perform a variety of operations administration management and provisioning OAM P functions. Interface Description Language IDL is used to define the object level interface of the API. This object interface includes the XML descriptions and documents that are used in a particular system vendor s environment.

void addServicesProfile in string profileName in string ispName in TservicesProfile servicesStruct raises svcException 

Similarly OSS J OSS through Java is part of the TM Forum to standardize the Java based XML and Web Services APIs used for integrating systems in the telecom and networking services infrastructure delivering the services to the customers and systems in the business OSS infrastructure. Command Line Interface 

The following are examples of command line interface commands exposed by many networking systems that allow other applications to add modify and delete network elements subscriber entities and modify their usage of network resources and applications.

BACnet is a data communication protocol for Building Automation and Control Networks. BACnet is an American national standard a European standard a national standard in more than 30 countries and an ISO global standard. BACnet is most popular standard communications protocol for the HVAC Building Automation controls industry is clearly becoming the accepted alternative to the proprietary communications solutions that to date have dominated most HVAC controls installations. The following example illustrates BACnet messages as they might appear on an ARCNET or BACnet Point to Point PTP link. The examples describe the derivation of the encoded values from the service definitions and encoding rules contained in ANSI ASHRAE 135 1995 the BACnet standard. In the example which follows the network header specifies a global broadcast DNET Oxffff DADR of length 0 . The network header contains no source network or address for the requester as the requester is assumed in this example to reside on the same ARCNET network where the request is observed. The CRC is not shown as it is inserted and removed by the ARCNET interface hardware.

Embodiments can also be used in Radio over Internet Protocol RoIP systems. RoIP is similar to VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol but attempts to replace two way radio communications rather than telephone calls. With RoIP at least one end of a connection is a radio receiver or transceiver connected to a base station that uses IP to connect to a remote device. The other device can be another two way radio or base station but could also be a POTS telephone computer Skype phone PDA Personal Digital Assistant smartphone or some other communications device accessible over IP. RoIP can be deployed over private networks of wireless base stations as well as the public Internet. It is useful in land mobile radio situations like public safety systems.

In one embodiment the physical security policies are defined in a visual policy manager using actionable representations of physical network and IT systems as defined and configured in the system. Users such as security administrators define the data and event flow through the various physical security systems rules that are run on it and the actionable events that are created from a policy engine as a result of rules execution. The rules thus defined are converted into standardized rules definitions based on XML format. These rule files are supplied to the physical security policy process states and actions module. This module stores the rules and applies them to every data or alarm event that is propagated through it creating actions that determine persistence propagation or alarm events such as storing the data in the data repository creating a workflow for task assignment or verification generating alarms or events for external systems e.g. e mail or pager notifications or SNMP for network management systems or assignment revocation of requisite access privileges and propagating the change to relevant security systems.

In one embodiment the integrated physical security management process is included within an overall managed physical security system MPSS . A policy manager within the MPSS provides administrators and users the ability to define policies and real time oversight mechanisms to ensure corporate or other entity policy compliance and monitoring across distributed physical and IT security systems.

A policy is a user defined logical entity that acts as a container for rules that are contained in the policy definition. The user typically creates a policy and then adds rules to the policy. Multiple policies can be created in the system to fulfil objectives that are necessary for successful management of distributed enterprise physical security systems. These include an oversight mechanism over data changes occurring throughout the physical security infrastructure enforcement of corporate policies by defining system policies that mirror corporate security guidelines monitoring compliance through tracking of violations generating alarms on violations and performing task assignment for security administration personnel to resolve possible policy violations.

All data flow in the integrated physical security management process is controlled by policies which are managed and processed by the policy manager. Policies can be categorized into several different types. The first type are system policies which define the general flow of data between the managed systems and represent the set of rules that are applied to data objects for system level replication. For example a system policy is the set of rules that determine if a system Chicago 1 can accept data from another system Dallas 2. System policies are always defined from the context of the receiving system i.e. the system indicates whether it would be willing to accept a change on data made by some other system. System policies are defined generally at the time a system is added by defining the orchestration for it. Policies that recognize the attribute level differences between systems and determine how to propagate data are a special case of system policies. An example of this is the clearances attached to a person object by means of a user profile. If a person object is being propagated to a system that does not support all the clearances attached to the object then the policy manager will strip the additional clearances before propagating the changed object to the MPSS.

A second type of policy is a user policy. User policies are similar to system policies but are more granular and apply to the attributes within the data object. The conditions for rule execution are based on object attributes. For example a rule can be defined that prevents a change to the Social Security Number by any system other than a headquarter HR system to be propagated across to other systems. This rule execution would result in the person data object being dropped and also to cause such an event to raise an alarm in the system. One distinction between system and user policies lies in the fact that user policies are configurable by users in order to block propagation detect policy violations and raise alarms.

Policies are logical entities that allow easy grouping of rules in order to understand view enable and order them as one group. Rules are the actual and lowest level combination of Condition Action sequences that are applied to the data objects passing through the process. The policy manager applies one rule at a time to the data passing through the system. In general a policy can comprise one or many rules the rules are applied on data in sequential order starting from top to bottom the order of execution of rules can be changed a rule inside a policy can be enabled or disabled to allow a user to define rules but not enable them for processing until a later time.

Rules are logically composed of separate components that facilitate the creation of complex expressions that are processed internally by the policy manager. A source to destination pre condition component defines the precondition for data changes propagating initiated by one physical security system to other security systems and helps define a system specific context to the rule. A condition component provides a mechanism by which the rule is evaluated to determine if the defined action should be performed or not. The conditions are defined as logical expressions that are defined using the data objects that can be used as condition objects. For example in the logical expression UserID jdoe is a condition that can be defined using an expression operator and two objects UserID predefined and jdoe user input string . An action component defines the action that the policy manager should perform when a rule condition is met.

For policies to serve their purpose they must be applied at the right point in the lifecycle of the data flowing through the system. The key data points through which messages and events flow are as follows 1 a data change in the MPSS is detected by the agents in the integration layer 2 a request for the change is generated by the agent for the channel that aggregates communication from the integration layer components 3 a channel propagates the change to the adapter which is responsible for persisting the changes and broadcasting it to other modules as well as external systems and 4 requests are created for other MPSS and other applications interested in receiving the changed object. Policies are generally applied when a data object is received at the agent edge of the SAFE system be it destined for a MPSS a change being propagated from SAFE to other MPSS or the system itself. For data objects being propagated to other MPSS only a change that has initially being received from a MPSS and subsequently written successfully can be a candidate for further propagation to other MPSS. For the policy definitions that define rules using the source system information as a condition to work correctly the original source system information must be maintained in the data object request when propagating that change from SAFE.

Rules are written and read from left to write and this also represents the flow of the data message. The shapes on a diagram successively apply the conditions and actions as the message flows through. Some shapes can be placed multiple times like parallel actions. Others are restricted to one instance or other interconnection restriction. All shape behaviors and properties are defined when the shape is created. A number of basic types of shapes are utilized by the system object shapes condition shapes actions shapes modification shapes references and connectors.

Object shapes represent entities or actors in the system. Example shapes as shown in include a graphic of a building for a site a graphic of a person for an actor or personnel within the system and a standard flowchart decision diamond for a decision. Condition shapes are used to create conditional expressions in rules. These can include selecting changes coming from a particular application physical access control system data source or self service system selecting personnel data changes based on the values of the attributes in the personnel schema relevant to the source system and defining more complex expressions in a decision box. Action Shapes that are used to create resultant actions in rules based on the preceding conditions such as raising an alarm condition sending e mail notifications creating and assigning approval workflows and rejecting or blocking changes from getting persisted to the MPSS. Modification shapes are used to create modifiers of the incoming data based on the preceding conditions. These include mapping personnel attributes in a particular way to match the MPSS capabilities or modifying access badges activation and deactivation dates etc. assigning or removing personnel s access privileges or clearances to physical locations or assets and assigning or removing role based access privileges. Reference shapes are used to create references for lookups and comparisons by the rules engine in real time while processing the incoming data based on the preceding conditions. These include looking up additional information on provisioned personnel in LDAP Active Directory ODBC and JDBC data repositories. Information lookup can be for the purpose of getting additional attributes validating personnel credentials or for cross checking the results of other processes such as training compliance and background checks and so on. Connectors are directional lines terminating in an arrowhead. These represent the flow of the rule conditions actions and also data. The placement of connectors determines the precedence of operations and also defines Boolean expressions in conditions. Connectors can be sequential connections with one condition shape connected to another for an AND condition or parallel connections with one condition shape in parallel with another for an OR condition.

Multiple such rules can be created to define a ladder of rules that are applied to every change message that is processed by the orchestration and rules engine. Precedence of rules can be altered by changing the rule order and thus the order of execution of the rule by the rules engine. Similarly rules can be enabled or disabled.

Rule expression operators are used for defining and evaluating comparative expressions involving the condition objects which are predefined in the system to be used in the web UI and policy manager. Examples of simple operators are 

In one embodiment Boolean operators such as AND OR NOT etc. can also be provided as rule expression operators. Alternatively Boolean operations can be created either by defining individual multiple rules for execution or defining multiple actions for the same rule.

Every rule has an action associated with it. A rule can have multiple actions defined for it that are performed when the condition specified in the rule matches it. All actions are performed exclusively and do not depend on the other actions defined for that rule. Action objects typically act as forwarders of the event object to the receiving module for example and Alarm Manager Conflict Manager allows the user to view and correct the problem indicated by a policy condition. Rule action objects are predefined objects in that provide the definition and logic for the actions that can be selected for a particular rule action. The action objects possible for the rules in general are 

For policies to serve their purpose it is critical that they be applied at the right point in the lifecycle of the data flowing through the system. The key data points in the system through which messages and events flow are as follows 

Visual rule building block objects are created in the data model to represent the normalized physical security systems devices data and processes. Representation of the systems and data includes the data mapping formatting hierarchical and other relationships and the commands specific to the individual types of systems. A stencil is the container repository of these objects that are used in the policy manager for creating actionable rules for integration of physical security systems data and processes.

In one embodiment the system rules are created visually through the use of a stencil of object shapes that represent physical systems data flow and processes. A web based interactive visual editor such as Microsoft Visio Drawing Control can be used. Such a program should have a stencil of shapes representing physical security systems data objects workflows processes identities events and users. Each stencil object is data driven which means that it is based on data definitions in the database. This allows for extensibility as well as easy addition of new objects in the stencil to represent new security systems processes etc. A rule is created by dragging and dropping drawing objects on to the map and interconnecting them to create rules. The policy control component monitors user events and communicates with the server over the network in order to obtain data necessary for defining the rules in real time. The user is provided a real time design view of the rule being constructed. Object properties can be changed to construct the rules by selecting the options provided in the property editor of the connected objects. Options and data available to the user while constructing rules is based on the properties of the objects and data available in the system.

Embodiments of the integrated physical security management process described herein provide a system to process data and events in real time while enforcing rules and policies thus persisting propagating physical security data and or creating alarms and alerts as well as a system and process to integrate data output and alerts from policies to internal or external physical network or IT systems and to create distributed multi tier physical security integration rules processing and event generation system for flexible deployment in small to large corporate government or public establishments.

Embodiments of the process directly integrate with physical security hardware in a distributed multi tier environment to provide a system process and apparatus for multi vendor multi technology physical system integration that is media and transport independent to receive data and events create and enforce policies to affect the outcome of security data persistence propagation and generation of alerts affecting other physical security network and IT systems. In this way processes and systems are provided to discover and define an organizations spatial hierarchy of its global physical security assets doors buildings etc . The disclosed system also provides processes and systems to generate unique physical access credentials for exclusive mapping between an individual s profile job department location etc and an organizations spatial hierarchy of its global physical security system deployments doors buildings etc and generates unique access credentials based on individual profiles and automatic assignment across multiple physical security systems overcoming certain hardware software limitations of standard access control system hardware.

Embodiments are directed to methods and systems for maintaining rules based physical security states from disparate multi vendor Physical Security Systems which can be mapped to affect network data flow and IT applications access through network equipment through a physical security services software module that can be embedded in network equipment or deployed as discrete equipment to receive physical security systems access control data and events that is used to build and maintain physical security access states in real time. Such a module provides a system process and software interfaces for receiving and processing physical security data and events that are used to build and maintain physical security access states in real time. It also provides a system process and software interfaces for receiving and translating security policy rules that are applied by the PSS to ongoing physical security data changes and events. The PSS provides a means for rules based mapping of physical security access states and events to data network flow and applications access control that can affect the flow of data and access to network applications in real time. It also provides software interfaces to register for and obtain physical security related states or rule based states mapped into actions that can be used by network equipment or IT applications to make data flow or access control decisions. The PSS module can be configured to send physical security state rules based control commands to network equipment or IT applications affecting data flow or access control and to provide a method system process and apparatus to embed physical security state rules based control commands in network equipment or IT applications affecting data flow or access control.

Aspects of the integrated physical security system described herein may be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry including programmable logic devices PLDs such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable array logic PAL devices electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell based devices as well as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Some other possibilities for implementing aspects of the physical security system and methods include microcontrollers with memory such as electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM embedded microprocessors firmware software etc. Furthermore aspects of the described methods may be embodied in microprocessors having software based circuit emulation discrete logic sequential and combinatorial custom devices fuzzy neural logic quantum devices and hybrids of any of the above device types. The underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET technologies like complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar technologies like emitter coupled logic ECL polymer technologies e.g. silicon conjugated polymer and metal conjugated polymer metal structures mixed analog and digital etc.

It should be noted that components of the systems and methods embodying the physical security system and methods disclosed herein may be described using computer aided design tools and or expressed or represented as data and or instructions embodied in various computer readable media in terms of their behavioral functional and or other characteristics. Computer readable media in which such formatted data and or instructions may be embodied include but are not limited to non volatile storage media in various forms e.g. optical magnetic or semiconductor storage media and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such formatted data and or instructions through wireless optical or wired signaling media or any combination thereof. Examples of transfers of such formatted data and or instructions by carrier waves include but are not limited to transfers uploads downloads e mail etc. over the Internet and or other computer networks via one or more data transfer protocols e.g. HTTP FTP SMTP etc. . When received within a computer system via one or more computer readable media such data and or instruction based expressions of the above described systems and methods may be processed by a processing entity e.g. one or more processors within the computer system in conjunction with execution of one or more other computer programs.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in a sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein hereunder above below and words of similar import refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word or is used in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above description of illustrated embodiments of the physical security system and methods is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise form disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the methods are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of other systems and methods as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. The teachings of the physical security system and methods provided herein can be applied to other processing systems and methods not only for the systems and methods described above.

The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. These and other changes can be made to the described methods in light of the above detailed description.

