---

title: System and method for providing database utilities for mainframe operated databases
abstract: A system and method for performing database utilities on a database. The system may include a mainframe computer that includes a storage unit and at least one database stored on the storage unit. A processing unit may be configured to receive and schedule jobs submitted for execution. An electronic display may be in communication with the processing unit and execute a software program configured to cause the processing unit to display a menu of selectable utilities on the electronic display, display a utility parameter entry screen in response to receiving a utility selection, and generate information including parameters entered in the utility parameter entry screen for use in performing the selected database utility on the database(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07734665&OS=07734665&RS=07734665
owner: Embarq Holdings Company, LLC
number: 07734665
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070122
---
Companies in many different industries handle large database operations using mainframe computers. One such industry is the telecommunications industry where databases are used to store detailed subscriber records. These databases are large and require routine maintenance to manage them due to a number of reasons including crashes updates corrections and verifications.

One mainframe manufacturer is International Business Machines IBM . IBM also provides a database software program known as DB2 which can manage very large databases e.g. several hundred Gigabytes . As understood in the art mainframe computers operate by processing jobs that are scheduled in a queue. These jobs are formed by a series of statements or commands that are processed by a processor of the mainframe computer. Jobs are generally statements formatted in the job control language JCL . Typically a mainframe computer runs a job by scheduling and executing a file with JCL commands or statements configured for the mainframe computer to perform a task such as re loading a database from a certain time. In addition to the file with JCL statements control cards are used to set parameters for the jobs and know the syntax of the control cards. The control cards are typically eighty byte strings that have each byte and groups of bytes representative of the different parameters. The JCL commands and control cards are comprehensive and generally require well trained database administrators to adequately generate proper job files and control cards to perform even routine procedures and maintenance on DB2 databases.

To aid database administrators IBM provides database utilities. These utilities are JCL programs that are configured to perform certain functions. The database administrator however must generate a control card for each job. This process is time consuming costly and reliant on a limited number of skilled employees. Even with skilled employees it is not uncommon for run time errors to be caused by improperly written control cards. The DB2 databases come with a user interface but the user interface is a single screen that is confusing to skilled database administrators and limited to utilities provided by IBM. Other vendors provide different utility programs but these too require control cards having different formats to be generated by the user. And the other vendors utilities have different similarly complex user interfaces. Another problem that exists with existing utilities provided by IBM and other vendors is the complexity of reports produced by the utilities. The reports generated by current utilities are cluttered provide too much information and are generally difficult to interpret.

These and other issues result in significant costs and expenses to staff database operations with database administrators. For example in a typical telecommunications company twenty or more database administrators are needed to manage the customer database and support database developers because the database developers are unfamiliar and generally unskilled to generate the necessary database utility operations needed during database development projects and interpret the resulting reports. This number of database administrators is generally needed because of the amount of time needed to generate control cards and set up JCL routines using the utilities available by both IBM and other vendors.

To overcome the difficulties of using database utilities on mainframes minimize costs of staffing a database with database administrators and increase the speed at which utility jobs can be created the principles of the present invention provide for a system with a utilities menu or panel that is intuitive and provides a user with selectable utilities. In response to a user selecting a utility a respective utility parameter entry screen is provided to the user for entering parameters to run a utility in a particular manner. Resulting from the utility parameter entry screen the system generates JCL command files that can be submitted as a job without control cards because the utility parameters entered by the user are embedded within the JCL command files. By providing such intuitive screens eliminating control cards and providing easy to read and understand reports developers may perform utilities on databases with little or no assistance from a database administrator.

One embodiment for implementing the principles of the present invention includes a system for performing database utilities on a database. The system may include a mainframe computer that includes a storage unit and at least one database stored on the storage unit. A processing unit may be configured to receive and schedule jobs submitted for execution. An electronic display may be in communication with the processing unit and execute a software program configured to cause the processing unit to display a menu of selectable utilities on the electronic display display a utility parameter entry screen in response to receiving a utility selection and generate information including parameters entered in the utility parameter entry screen for use in performing the selected database utility on the database s .

A method for performing database utilities on a database may include storing at least one database. A menu of selectable database utilities may be displayed. A utility parameter entry screen may be displayed in response to receiving a database utility selection. Information including parameters entered by a user in the utility parameter entry screen may be generated for use in performing a database utility on the database s . A job may be submitted with the information to perform the selected database utility on the database s .

In operation the mainframe computer may execute the software for operating the database s stored in the storage unit . In the case of the database s being DB2 databases these databases are challenging for users to perform utilities due to confusing user interfaces provided by utility developers including IBM and control cards that are difficult to understand even by the most seasoned database administrator. In accordance with the principles of the present invention the software may include a database utility system that provides intuitive user interfaces that is capable of generating JCL command files that include parameters thereby eliminating the need for control cards to be used during execution of a job as the parameters entered by a user are included in the JCL command file.

The user may press the PF key and receive help. In response to the user pressing the PF key a tutorial page may be generated that includes definitions and or instructions for the user in selecting a subsystem and utility. For example in response to the user pressing the PF key while viewing the main menu a tutorial page may be generated. The tutorial page may state 

Similar to the tutorial page available for the main menu of a tutorial page may be requested for the Find Recovery Points utility parameter entry screen. Definitions and instructions on the tutorial page may read as follows 

Continuing with the list of selectable utility options provided may be software utilities produced by multiple vendors. The utility options that include BMC are database utilities provided by BMC Software Inc. a company that produces database utility software. The utilities without the BMC are utilities provided by IBM the developer of DB2. Normally IBM and BMC provide single user interfaces that are incapable of showing utilities other than those of the respective utilities developers. In addition custom database utilities generated by database administrators at the company operating the database may be included in the list of selectable utility options However in accordance with the principles of the present invention utilities by both utilities developers maybe displayed and executed from a single menu such as that shown in . This aggregation of database utilities reduces the amount of time effort and knowledge needed to perform utilities on the databases.

In addition to the principles of the present invention streamlining the process for preparing and using utilities results of the utilities are provided in an easy to read format. As database administrators have come to realize reports generated by existing utilities are difficult to read and interpret because they are filled with unnecessary information and have formats that are not conducive to quick analysis and review. These reports can be 60 pages or longer due to the extra information and format. The software of may include a parsing engine that receives the results of the utility after being executed parse the information to collect a reduced set of information that is relevant for a user to quickly and easily determine the results of the database utility. The reduced set of results may be included in a table of rows and columns to enable the user to easily scan the results. By generating a table with a reduced set of result information the number of pages of results may be significantly reduced and the user may more easily review the results.

The previous detailed description is of a small number of embodiments for implementing the invention and is not intended to be limiting in scope. One of skill in this art will immediately envisage the methods and variations used to implement this invention in other areas than those described in detail. The following claims set forth a number of the embodiments of the invention disclosed with greater particularity.

