---

title: Optical bench fiber optic transmitter
abstract: The subassembly includes a laser for emitting signals towards fibers to be monitored, a passive alignment carrier, a photodetector for monitoring reflected laser signals from the fibers and for monitoring laser output power, and an optical fiber. The laser is disposed within the passive alignment carrier. The optical fiber is embedded in the passive alignment carrier, and has an angled fiber facet. The laser emits signals toward and through the angled fiber facet, whereby a portion of the laser signal illuminates the photodetector, and another portion illuminates the fibers that are being monitored and reflects back to the photodetector such that faults on the fibers can be detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07853144&OS=07853144&RS=07853144
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07853144
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070905
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The above listed invention is hereby cross referenced and related to U.S. patent application Ser. 11 789 120 filed Apr. 25 2007 entitled Transceiver Optical Subassembly by inventor Mark W. Beranek and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 789 121 filed Apr. 25 2007 entitled Hybrid Fiber Optic Transceiver Optical Subassembly by inventor Mark W. Beranek. U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 789 120 and 11 789 121 are not admitted to be prior art with respect to the present invention. The applications are hereby incorporated by reference. All the inventions are assigned to the same assignee and have been invented by the same inventor.

The present invention relates to an optical bench fiber optic transmitter or a receiver optical subassembly for use in fiber optic communication systems. More specifically but without limitation the present invention relates to a transmitter and a receiver optical subassembly with vertical cavity surface emitting laser power monitoring and optical time domain reflectrometry functionality.

Laser diode power monitoring is often used to control and monitor output power and modulation parameters of a laser diode inside a transmitter package. Laser power monitoring can also be used in conjunction with receiver signal strength indication to report the health characteristics in fiber optic links. In particular laser power monitoring may be used to determine isolate and find faults in avionics fiber optic links.

Previous methods to find faults in fiber optic cables utilize a silicon optical bench based digital laser transmitter optical subassembly that enables both digital optical communication and optical time domain reflectrometry. These optical subassembly configurations however do not allow vertical cavity surface emitting laser power monitoring or edge emitting laser diode power monitoring in optical subassemblies configured for isolating faults down to the fiber optic transmitter receiver and cable plant level.

For the foregoing reasons there is a need for monitoring the optical power of both vertical cavity surface emitting and edge emitting laser diodes in optical subassemblies configured for isolating faults down to the fiber optic transmitter receiver and cable plant level.

The present invention is directed to a transmitter or subassembly that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to an optical bench fiber optic transmitter that includes a laser for emitting laser signals a passive alignment carrier a photodetector for monitoring reflected laser signals from fiber s being monitored and for monitoring laser output power and an optical fiber. The passive alignment carrier is disposed between the laser and the photodetector and the optical fiber is embedded in the passive alignment carrier and disposed perpendicularly to the laser signal emitted by the laser. The optical fiber has an angled fiber facet and a mirrored end face surface. The laser emits signals toward and through the angled fiber facet whereby a portion of the laser signal illuminates the photodetector and another portion traverses down the optical fiber toward the mirrored end face surface and reflects off the mirrored end face surface toward the fibers that are being monitored and reflects back from the fibers being monitored to the photodetector such that faults on the fibers can be detected.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an optical bench fiber optic transmitter that allows vertical cavity surface emitting laser power monitoring and or edge emitting laser diode power monitoring.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an optical bench fiber optic transmitter that can accurately locate and isolate faults in fiber optic cables and or fiber optic transceivers.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As seen in the optical bench fiber optic transmitter for laser power monitoring includes a laser for emitting laser signals a passive alignment carrier a photodetector for monitoring reflected laser signals from fiber s being monitored and for monitoring laser output power and an optical fiber . The passive alignment carrier is disposed between the laser and photodetector . The optical fiber is embedded in the passive alignment carrier and has an angled fiber facet and a mirrored end face surface . The laser emits signals toward and through the angled fiber facet whereby a portion of the laser signal the photodetector laser portion illuminates the photodetector and another portion the end face surface light portion traverses down the optical fiber toward the mirrored end face surface and reflects off the mirrored end face surface the reflected portion from the mirrored end face surface may be referred to as the fiber light portion toward the fiber s that are being monitored and reflects back from the fiber s being monitored the light portion reflected from the fiber s may be referred to as the reflected laser signal to the photodetector such that faults on the fiber s can be detected.

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in an avionic or aircraft fiber link environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of need that requires use of an optical bench fiber optic transmitter or transceiver optical subassembly. The subassembly or transmitter may be used but without limitations in military operations communications and various other electronic uses. Additionally the same techniques and or subassembly described here for laser diodes can be applied to surface emitting and edge emitting LEDs as well as other types of lasers.

A laser may be defined but without limitation as a light source producing through stimulated emission coherent near monochromatic light or light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. One embodiment of the invention includes a laser that is a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL . A vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL is typically but without limitation a specialized laser diode a laser diode also known as an injection laser or diode laser may be defined but without limitation as a semiconductor device that produces coherent radiation in which the waves are all at the same frequency and phase in the visible or infrared IR spectrum when current passes through it . The transceiver optical subassembly may also include a laser driver circuit . The laser driver circuit provides current to the laser such that the laser emits signals specifically optical signals or light.

A passive alignment carrier may be but without limitation defined as a substrate with topographically etched features and metallizations that enable the automatic alignment of optical and optoelectronic components including optical fibers laser diodes LEDs and photodetectors. The passive alignment carrier may be a silicon optical bench or a silicon v groove passive alignment carrier. In the preferred embodiment the passive alignment carrier includes a silicon substrate. In the embodiment of the invention shown in the silicon substrate may also include a first aperture to allow easier luminal or optical communication with the photodetector and a second aperture to allow easier luminal or optical communication with the laser .

A photodetector may be defined but without limitation as a device capable of sensing light and converting it to electricity. The photodetector may be a positive intrinsic negative p i n photodetector either front illuminated or back illuminated a metal semiconductor metal MSM or an avalanche photodiode or photodetector. However any type of photodetector can be utilized as practicable.

An optical fiber may be defined but without limitation as a waveguide medium used to transmit information via light impulses rather than through the movement of electrons. The preferred optical fiber is a multimode optical fiber transmitting in the about 800 to about 1600 nm range. The angled fiber facet is a polished plane that is angled or oblique to the axis of the optical fiber and acts as a beam splitter. The optical fiber may include a transmitting reflective angled fiber facet which splits the signal into the photodetector laser portion and the end face surface light portion and a reflective signal angled fiber facet which reflects the reflected laser signals toward the photodetector . The mirrored end face surface may be defined but without limitation as a polished plane that is angled perpendicular to the axis of the optical fiber . The mirror typically is a reflective thin film material. However any material that allows a light or optical signal to reflect may be utilized.

In operation in the transmitter shown in the laser signal emitted from the laser passes through the angled fiber facet specifically the transmitting reflective angled fiber facet . The transmitting reflective angled fiber facet splits the laser signal . A portion of the laser signal the photodetector laser portion passes through the first aperture and illuminates the photodetector . Another portion of the laser signal the end face surface light portion travels to the mirrored end face surface typically along the axis of the optical fiber and then is reflected along the axis of the optical fiber back in the opposite direction towards and to the fiber s the fiber light portion . The light is then reflected from the fibers in the opposite direction toward and to the photodetector the reflected laser signal and illuminates the photodetector . The photodetector is in electronic communication with a processor that based on the illumination of the photodetector can determine if and where the fiber s are experiencing a fiber optic link fault.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to a certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

