---

title: Underwater surface cleaning vehicle for integrated cleaning and effluent treatment system
abstract: A method and apparatus for the cleaning of an underwater surface, such as a hull. The method and apparatus enables cleaning to be conducted while mitigating the release of removed material into surrounding waters. The integrated apparatus includes a cleaning deck for removing fouling from the underwater hull surface, and a pre-processing deck with integrated components for the processing of cleaning effluents. According to the method and apparatus, materials removed by the shroud are sucked into the pre-processing deck, crushed, and separated into a separator effluent that may be recycled to the shroud, and a concentrate, which is discharged to a land treatment unit for further processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07971547&OS=07971547&RS=07971547
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07971547
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071105
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 856 472 filed Nov. 3 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 998 989 filed Nov. 5 2007 entitled Integrated Underwater Surface Cleaning and Effluent Treatment System which is based on U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 856 473 filing date Nov. 3 2006 hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an underwater surface cleaning vehicle and in particular to an integrated underwater surface cleaning vehicle having a pre processing unit for the initial processing of cleaning effluents.

Navy ships are periodically cleaned using open cycle cleaning devices such as for example submerged cleaning and maintenance platform SCAMP technology that utilizes integrated impeller and cleaning brush technology and results in the direct discharge of removed constituents such as for example biological fouling hull coatings and corrosion byproducts into surrounding water. Most antifouling coatings utilize heavy metals such as Cu and Zn as biocides that are released during cleaning operations at levels that can exceed water quality criteria. This has prompted governments to develop standards to manage this discharge or in some cases to prohibit open water cleaning of hulls with coatings that have antifoulants in them without special permission.

Waterborne underwater hull cleaning is critical to the worldwide operation and maintenance of Navy ships and impacts operating capability e.g. speed and maneuverability acoustic signature fuel efficiency and the maintainability and lifecycle of critical systems including underwater hull coatings impress current cathodic protection systems and propulsion systems.

Disclosed are systems and techniques for conducting advanced waterborne underwater ship hull and other submerged or partially submerged surface cleaning using integrated surface contaminant removal capture containment collection comminution concentration separation reuse and transport technology. The concentrate stream generated is transported for subsequent processing for recycle or disposal at a substantially reduced volume. This invention mitigates the release of toxicants and other material during the waterborne hull cleaning operations.

In one aspect the invention is a cleaning vehicle for cleaning an underwater surface. In this aspect the cleaning vehicle has a pre processing deck and a cleaning deck or shroud pivotally connected to the processing deck. The pre processing deck includes one or more circulation pumps downstream of the cleaning deck for initiating the suctioning of the cleaning deck onto the underwater surface and for initiating a particulate flow of water entrained material removed by the cleaning deck. The invention further includes a solids processing unit downstream of the cleaning deck for crushing and fracturing solids in the particulate flow. Additionally the apparatus includes a separator unit downstream of the solids processing unit for partitioning the particulate flow into a separator effluent and a concentrate of crushed material. According to the invention the cleaning deck has one or more abrasion devices for removing fouling from the underwater surface and a deck mouth for the intake of the particulate flow of water entrained material.

In another aspect the invention is a method of cleaning an underwater hull surface using a cleaning vehicle having a pre processing deck and a cleaning deck pivotally connected to the processing deck. The pre processing deck has one or more circulation pumps a solids processing unit and a separator unit. The cleaning deck comprises one or more abrasion devices and a cleaning deck mouth. In this aspect the method includes the drawing of the cleaning deck into contact with the underwater surface by using the one or more pumps to generate a reduced pressure between the cleaning deck and the underwater hull surface. The method also includes the removing of fouling from the underwater hull surface by applying the one or more abrasion devices to the underwater hull surface. The method further includes the generating of a particulate flow of water entrained material removed by the one or more abrasion devices by using the one or more pumps to draw the removed material and surrounding water and the crushing and fracturing in the solids processing unit solid material in the particulate flow. The method further includes the partitioning in the separator unit the particulate flow into a separator effluent and a concentrate of crushed fouling material.

The described systems and techniques entail an underwater cleaning and integrated water and solids capturing containing comminuting separating concentrating reusing and transferring process for conducting waterborne underwater cleaning. By design the below described method and apparatus enables cleaning to be conducted while mitigating the release of removed material into surrounding waters. is an exemplary flow diagram of an integrated hull cleaning and effluent system for performing the above recited functions.

As illustrated in the system includes a ship hull having a hull surface the ship hull docked in relatively close proximity to a pier . The system further includes a cleaning vehicle having two parts decks a cleaning deck or shroud and a pre processing deck . The cleaning deck moves across the hull surface to physically remove fouling and other undesired buildups from hull surface. The pre processing deck via a reduced pressure gradient sucks the particulate flow of removed fouling material and other cleaning material such as antifoulant coatings having heavy metal toxicants along with surrounding water through the cleaning deck into the pre processing deck . The surrounding water may be seawater freshwater or another type of water depending on the environment in which the ship is docked. A flexible hose may facilitate the transportation of the water entrained material or slurry from the cleaning deck to the pre processing deck . As will be outlined below the pre processing deck treats the water entrained material separating the particulate flow into a separator effluent and a concentrate of crushed fouling material. The separator effluent is directed back towards the cleaning deck via line . Line may comprise a flexible hose having a diameter of about 2 inches to 4 inches. The separator effluent may be reused to supplement further cleaning operations. Alternatively the separator effluent may be discharged directly into the water. shows line through which the concentrate of crushed fouling material is transported to a land treatment unit for subsequent processing of the concentrate. The land treatment unit may be located on the pier. Alternatively the land treatment unit may be located on a ship such as a barge or on another platform. The line may be a flexible hose of sufficient length and diameter for example the hose may be about 400 feet to about 1000 feet in length and about 1 inch to about 2 inches in diameter. Although the system shows a ship hull the cleaning vehicle may be used to clean other submerged surfaces.

As stated above the different elements of the pre processing deck are also shown in . shows the deck having a solids processing unit which is a crusher . also shows the crusher motor and crusher control lever for operating the crusher . The crusher crushes and fractures solids removed during cleaning to for example about in or smaller while having minimal impact on flow. Incoming solids to be processed can be significant in size for example as large as 4 inches. also shows a circulation pump which may have a drive of about 30 HP. The pump initiates the flow needed to generate shroud suction the particulate flow of water entrained material and subsequent downstream pressures for solids separation separator fluid discharge or reuse and concentrate transport.

The above outlined apparatus for the cleaning vehicle enables the cleaning operation in the shroud which involves simultaneous brushing overflow injection slurry evacuation while maneuvering across the surface to be cleaned. In operation the cleaning vehicle incorporates the simultaneous application of mechanical and hydrodynamic energy to remove fouling and uses a differential pressure to induce fluid flow for evacuating removed material. The cleaning vehicle further utilizes the direct injection and diffusion of processed working fluid to increase efficiency and enhance the transport of removed material from the working surface to the shroud through the mouth . A method of cleaning an underwater hull surface that incorporates the above described cleaning vehicle is outlined below.

As shown in step is the positioning of the cleaning deck shroud into a reduced pressure contact with the hull surface . A diver performs this function after submerging the cleaning vehicle in the water by known means such as a crane for example. As outlined with respect to the embodiments of A B and C the pre processing deck includes one or more circulation pumps that create a suctioning force through the mouth of the cleaning deck. Consequently when a diver brings the cleaning deck into contact with a hull surface a suction like working contact is created between the hull and the deck because of the reduced pressure created by the one or more pumps .

Step is the removing of fouling from the hull surface . As shown in the embodiments of the shroud includes cleaning units that comprise motorized circularly arranged brushes that are mounted for rotational or reciprocating movement. The scrubbing or sweeping action of the brushes removes the fouling from the hull surface . Step is the generating of a particulate flow of water entrained fouling material. The pressure created by the one or more pumps draws fouling and other cleaning material such as antifoulants removed by the brushes into the mouth of the cleaning deck with the material entrained in a stream of surrounding water which includes water peripheral to the cleaning deck and separator effluent injected into the deck. The particulate flow is sucked through the cleaning deck towards the solids processing unit located on the pre processing deck . The particulate flow is sucked through the cleaning deck at an appropriate rate for example at a rate of about 150 gallons per minute to about 170 gallons per minute. At step the solid material in the particulate flow is crushed and fractured in the solids processing unit in a manner that has minimal impact on the rate of the flow. After passing through the solids processing unit the slurry of particulate flow is pumped to the separator unit.

At step the particulate flow including the crushed and fractured material is partitioned into a separator effluent or overflow and concentrate of crushed fouling material or underflow. The separator unit may be hydrocyclone or a similarly robust phase separator device. To maximize the process the slurry enters a processing device at an optimized flow rate for example at approximately 50 65 psi. Step is the discharging of the concentrate to a land treatment unit for further treatment of the concentrate and step is the discharging of the effluent to the cleaning deck or directly into the surrounding water. Steps and preferably take place simultaneously. Although the flow rates may vary as necessary the separator effluent may be discharged at a rate of about 100 to 110 gallons per minute or higher and the concentrate may be discharged to the land treatment unit at about 50 to 60 gallons per minute. As outlined above the concentrate is discharged to the land unit via an appropriately sized flexible conduit or hose of about for example about 600 feet in length and about 2.0 inches in diameter. An appropriately sized flexible hose having for example diameter of about 3 inches may also be used to discharge the separator effluent to the shroud or to the water. As outlined above diameters of the hoses assist in maximizing the different flow rates.

The described systems and techniques for waterborne underwater hull cleaning provide a means to mitigate the discharge of removed toxicants from underwater hull cleaning operations. This is accomplished by providing the integrated on board processing of removed material while reusing working fluid to produce a single manageable wastestream concentrate that can be transported at relatively small flows through for example flexible hose over distances for example in excess of 600 feet to a topside or other remote location where further wastestream management can be accomplished. The described systems and techniques improve upon long standing technology that does not process or manage material removed during waterborne hull cleaning.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example the diameters of lines and shown in may vary depending on operating conditions and requirements. For instance line may be made to be smaller or larger to accommodate for the varying sizes of the crushed solid particles in the concentrate. Additionally shows three movable brushes for cleaning hull surfaces but more or less than three brushes may be incorporated in the invention or other cleaning technologies such as waterjets cavitating jets ultrasonic transducers or low pressure whips. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

