---

title: Advanced voting system and method
abstract: An advanced voting system is provided that includes one or more computing devices. The computing devices receive input of authentication data and utilize the authentication data to determine whether a voting session by a voter is authorized and to unlock ballot information specific to the voter or a group of voters. In addition, the computing devices present ballot questions to the voter if the voting session is authorized based on the received authentication data and receive interactive voter selections from the voter. Furthermore, the system includes a ballot generator that generates tangible ballots containing the voter selections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07913905&OS=07913905&RS=07913905
owner: Populex Corp.
number: 07913905
owner_city: West Dundee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071022
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 465 896 filed Jun. 19 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 284 700 by Sanford J. Morganstein entitled Advanced Voting System and Method. This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 294 062 filed Nov. 14 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 306 148 by Sanford J. Morganstein entitled Advanced Voting System and Method which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 001 511 filed Oct. 31 2001 now abandoned by Sanford J. Morganstein entitled Advanced Voting System and Method which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 308 465 filed Jul. 26 2001 entitled Advanced Voting System. All of these prior applications including the entire written description claims and drawings are hereby incorporated into the present application by reference.

This invention relates generally to voting and more particularly to an advanced voting system and method.

Voting systems have a variety of underlying objectives. First a cornerstone of any democracy is an accurate voting system that minimizes disenfranchisement of voters. However count accuracy is difficult because the large number of voters who participate in an election create variances in ballot output. Another objective of voting systems is to accurately gauge voter intent. Despite this objective many factors may lead to situations in which voters are unclear as to what is required of them or unclear in indicating their selections. Such factors include ballot design cumulative voting multiple positions available for one office proximity of candidate names on a ballot unintentional markings left on a ballot and misspelling of write in candidates. Additionally in some elections eligibility requirements or the issues involved restrict who has the right to vote. Thus voting systems must also attempt to ensure that voters only vote the legal number of times and in the proper jurisdiction.

Methods of voting and counting votes have been in use since the earliest of human times. A paper ballot is a simple voting tool that is usually preprinted with the names of the candidates for a given office. In a paper ballot voting system the voter marks an x next to each candidate s name for whom the voter cares to vote. To maintain privacy the voter folds the ballot and hands it to an election judge who deposits it in a ballot box. Alternatively the voter may be requested to place the ballot in the ballot box himself. A second voting system developed to further these objectives uses mechanical voting machines. Typically mechanical voting machines have levers next to the names of candidates and counters that increment each time a voter moves a lever to vote on a specific candidate or question. In a third system the voter is given a paper ballot called a punchcard that contains perforated or otherwise weakened areas. The punchcard is inserted into a machine that displays the names of candidates or the questions in a referendum. The alignment of the punchcard in the machine is such that when the voter inserts a stylus next to the candidate s name a piece of paper is punched out. The paper that is removed is called a chad. The hole in the place where the chad once was can be detected by a light sensitive card reader to determine the vote. In yet another system the voter is given a paper ballot and the voter is asked to fill in a circle or box associated with the candidate or other ballot question. As is other paper ballot systems the ballot is placed in a ballot box and is read at a later time. The machine that reads these ballots find light passing through some circles or boxes and not through others. The presence or absence of a mark in a box or circle indicates the voters choices. Such systems are called mark sense systems or alternatively optical scan systems.

Regardless of the system employed problems have always existed with such systems. The first and foremost deficiency is count accuracy. When it comes to large numbers of ballots human readers are often more prone to error. Mechanical voting machines improve the counting process by creating a tally for each candidate or question that can be recorded by election officials at the end of the election. Although more accurate faster and less labor intensive mechanical voting machines do not leave an audit trail for authorities to follow in times of a recount. Additionally voters have become disenfranchised by mechanical voting machines since allegations of tampering with the counters are difficult to dismiss and also because the voter has no assurance that his vote was tallied correctly.

Another deficiency in current voting systems stems from human error in making a selection. Variances in how voters mark a selection and erase a selection may render paper ballots unclear. Punch card systems attempt to replace human counting and selection entry errors with machine certainty but create problems unique to punch cards. For example voters may not force the stylus through with enough force to completely remove the chad. When entered into the counting machine a partially removed chad may be reinserted into the hole nullifying the voter s intent altogether. Furthermore a punched punchcard cannot be unpunched. An error in making the voter s selection requires the voter to begin the voting process anew.

Furthermore other problems with a paper ballot voting system are overvoting and undervoting which occur when a voter either votes for too many candidates or too few candidates respectively. Mechanical voting machines sufficiently diminish this problem by making it difficult for a voter to vote for more candidates than is appropriate and by reminding the voter when a particular office or question has not been voted on. However punch card and optical scan systems cannot detect an overvote or undervote until the votes are tallied. Additionally where ballots are not counted immediately at the polling place the voter is never afforded the opportunity to correct the situation.

Thus regardless of the system employed whether it is conventional paper ballots mechanical machines or punchcards each system has deficiencies that effect the accuracy and efficiency of the voting process. The presidential election of 2000 has increased public awareness and concern about current systems employed.

According to the present invention disadvantages and problems associated with previous voting methods and systems have been substantially reduced or eliminated.

According to one embodiment of the present invention an advanced voting system is provided that includes one or more computing devices. The computing devices receive input of authentication data and utilize the authentication data to determine whether a voting session by a voter is authorized and to unlock ballot information specific to the voter or a group of voters. In addition the computing devices present ballot questions to the voter if the voting session is authorized based on the received authentication data and receive interactive voter selections from the voter. Furthermore the system includes a ballot generator that generates tangible ballots containing the voter selections.

Voter identifier system includes a computing device one or more data storage locations and an election key generator . A previously created voter signature may be stored as a registration record . Registration records are stored in a data storage location that is operable to communicate with computing device or that is included within computing device . Registration records used to authenticate the voter s right to vote in the particular election are described in greater detail below with respect to . For example an election judge may ask the voter to present a registration card and the signature on the card may be compared against the previously provided signature through the voter identifier system .

In one embodiment of voting system identification of the voter through a registration record allows an election key generator to prepare an election key . Once a voter s identity has been verified using registration record an election key may be generated to enable the voter to vote in a voting booth associated with voter identifier system . Election key generator is operable to communicate with one or more data storage locations and computing device to facilitate generation of the election key . The election key may be encoded with a digital signature of a specific election judge. A digital signature is an electronic signature that can be used to authenticate the identity of the sender of a message or the signer of the document. A digital signature is used to ensure that the original content of the message or document that has been sent is unchanged. Digital signature may be specific to the particular precinct at which the voter is authorized to vote and may be stored in data storage location . Election key may be a bar coded card a magnetic stripe card an optical disc such as a CD RW or CD ROM a magnetic disc such as a floppy disk or any other suitable data storage medium operable to be encoded with digital signature and or any other appropriate information allowing a voter to vote at a voting booth . As another example election key may include a smart card. A smart card is standard credit card sized plastic card within which a microchip has been embedded. The smart card may include a memory only chip with storage space for data or may include a microprocessor chip with the ability to process data onboard. Smart cards typically include cardholder verification techniques and security features built into the smart card chips.

The digital signature encoded on election key may be decoded by the computing device on which the voter makes his voting selections to ensure that the voter does not substitute a different ballot from the one the voter is authorized to use. Validation through digital signature also prevents interested parties from procuring copies of a ballot and hiring citizens to go into the polling place and deposit a ballot completed by someone other than the voter. Digital signature may also be used when the ballot is read as is described below. Additionally or alternatively voting booth may use election key to select the appropriate computer ballot containing the races and questions for which the voter is authorized to vote. In such embodiment election key may be used to unlock electronic ballot information previously stored at voting booth . In another embodiment an electronic ballot may be stored on election key itself. This particular election key may be encrypted using public private key or any other appropriate encryption technology.

As with a traditional voting system the voter may be directed to a voting booth that allows privacy for the voter. As described above system includes one or more electronic voting booths in which a voter may vote using election key if appropriate . Each voting booth may include an associated computing device . In certain embodiments computing device may be a personal computer which might include such components as a mouse headphones keypad and display screen . However any other computing device such as a handheld computer with an appropriate input device may also be used. In an embodiment where a programmable handheld device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a Tablet PC is used the programmable device itself along with its memory may be used to display the ballot record one or more votes and communicate the votes to tallying system . In such a case the memory of the handheld device is read and the handheld device is returned to election booth to allow voting by a different voter.

One embodiment of the present invention may be used to allow voters to adjust the colors and contrast of screen to improve viewabilty. For example in one embodiment the screen colors may be changed by altering the red green and blue components of the screen background using keyboard keys that are non dedicated to screen color changes. As used in this invention non dedicated means that the keys do not have a dedicated function for all applications on computing device . Rather the keys are used for color adjustments in the voting application but are used for some other non visual or non audible function when used in certain other applications or in the operating system run by computing device . Referring to a voter may be provided with keypad and instructed that selecting the 7 key alters the red content by a fixed amount selecting the 8 key alters the blue content by a fixed amount and selecting the 9 key alters the green content by a fixed amount. In one embodiment selecting the 7 8 and 9 keys in equal amounts in any desired order may have the effect of adding all three colors in equal amounts thereby increasing the white content of the screen and thereby increasing the contrast with characters in a black font. In yet another embodiment the voter may set the red green and blue screen color components to default values by selecting the 0 key on keypad . The voter may also select the 0 key to initialize the screen colors and consequently the screen contrast whenever a new voting session begins. Although screen color and contrast adjustments are described using red green and blue contents the approach to changing colors and contrast applies equally well to many mixtures of color components. Furthermore although examples of specific keys associated with specific colors are discussed above any non dedicated keys associated with any appropriate screen colors may be used. For example in another embodiment two non dedicated keys may be assigned to each screen color such that selecting one key will increase the value of the associated screen color and selecting the other key will decrease the value of the associated screen color. In one embodiment after the maximum value of any particular color component is selected by the voter the next incremental selection of the associated key sets that color component value back to zero or some other lowest value such that further incremental selections of the associated key will add that color component again.

In one embodiment in order to avoid setting the screen colors for one voter in a way that makes it difficult for subsequent voters to view the screen the screen colors and screen contrast settings may return to default values after a voter completes his voting session.

In one embodiment of the present invention a computer program may be written in the Visual Basic for Applications VBA programming language for altering screen color and contrast. In this example embodiment display screen of computing device displays a voting form to the voter and keypad contains a numerical keypad. The voting form is programmed so that when any key is pressed on keypad program control is passed to a computer routine called ColorSetting. In one embodiment the computer code for changing the color of the screen utilizes the voter s selection of the 0 key as a way of setting the screen colors to default values. The voter may also touch the 0 key to initialize the screen colors whenever a new voting session begins. A computer program consistent with the present embodiment may include the following routine 

In order to provide a range of screen colors particular embodiments of the present invention may allow the voter to incrementally add the respective red green and blue color content of the screen background in a series of finite steps. Referring to an example method for adjusting the display screen color in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention begins at step . At step the voter may select the 0 key on keypad to reset the screen colors to default values. At step the voter decides if the screen color needs further adjustment based on the needs of the voter. If no further adjustment is required the method ends at step . If further adjustment of the screen color is required the voter may either select individual red green and blue color adjustments in steps through or the voter may select the red green and blue color adjustments in equal amounts in any desired order in step to adjust the white content of screen . If the voter determines that too much of a color component has been selected and that the color component should be reduced the voter may continue to select the desired color component key until the maximum value of the particular color component is set. The next incremental selection of that color component key sets the color component value back to zero or some other lowest value and the voter may then incrementally add the color component with additional color component key selections until the desired color component level is selected. At step the voter again determines if further screen color adjustment is required. If further adjustment is required the voter is directed back to steps through or to step . If no further adjustment is required the process ends at step .

Although an example method is described the steps may be accomplished in any appropriate order. For example adjusting the red green and blue color components can be accomplished sequentially in any order or simultaneously. The present invention contemplates using methods with additional steps fewer steps or different steps so long as the methods remain appropriate for adjusting the screen color and contrast to enable visually impaired voters to use an advanced voting system.

Particular embodiments of the present invention may also or alternatively be used to allow voters to adjust the volume of the computing device of voting booth . For example in one embodiment the volume may be changed by increasing or decreasing the volume using keyboard keys that are non dedicated to volume changes. As used in this invention non dedicated means that the keys do not have a dedicated function for all applications on computing device . Rather the keys are dedicated to volume adjustments for the voting application or at specific times within the voting application but are dedicated to some other function when used in other applications or in the operating system run by computing device . Referring to a voter may be provided with keypad and instructed that selecting the key increases the volume by a fixed amount and selecting the key decreases the volume by a fixed amount. Although examples of specific keys associated with specific volume adjustments are discussed above any non dedicated keys associated with any appropriate volume adjustments may be used.

In one embodiment in order to avoid setting the volume for one voter in a way that makes it difficult or uncomfortable for subsequent voters to hear sounds from the computing device the volume setting may return to a default value after a voter completes his voting session.

In one embodiment of the present invention a computer program may be written in the Visual Basic for Applications VBA programming language for altering volume. In one embodiment this program uses the sound mixer functions which are part of the Microsoft Windows operating system. One skilled in the art can readily find code information about control structures and code fragments for the Application Programming Interface on the Microsoft Developer Network website www.msdn.com . Details can be found by looking for information about Mixer and Volume. 

In particular embodiments of the present invention the voter may be allowed to change the size of the characters and symbols displayed on screen while voting. Changing the size of the displayed characters may be done in an intuitive way so that voters do not need to learn complicated computer instructions. For example one embodiment of the present invention may use assignable function keys or buttons associated with computing device to allow voters to adjust the magnification level of screen . For example on a Tablet PC computing device running Windows XP a function key or button may be assigned that when selected by the voter executes the Windows Magnifier program included with the operating system. As an example the Compaq TC1000 Tablet PC has assignable buttons on the computer screen bezel. One of these buttons may be assigned to execute the Windows Magnifier program. A person of skill in the art will understand how the assignment of buttons to various functions is accomplished. The Windows Magnifier program creates a window on screen that can be moved anywhere on the screen. When the voter moves a stylus or mouse over a part of screen where the Magnifier Window is not displayed a magnified image of that screen area is displayed in the Magnifier Window. Using properties of the Magnifier program and window one skilled in the art can vary the amount of magnification presented to the voter. In addition one skilled in the art will recognize that screen color and contrast and screen magnification can be accomplished in combination or separately to provide the voter with a wide range to screen adjustments to enable a voter to tailor the screen display to his particular viewing needs.

Referring to an example method of adjusting the display screen magnification on a Tablet PC begins at step . At step the administrator of the voting system or other suitable person may assign a function key or button to execute the Windows Magnifier program. At step the voter selects the assignable button associated with the Windows Magnifier program such that the program executes. At step the voter moves the stylus mouse or other appropriate indicating mechanism over the portion of the screen that the voter desires to magnify. At step the voter determines if further magnification is required. If not further magnification is required the method ends at step . If further magnification is required the voter may adjust the level of magnification to the desired amount using the functions of the Windows Magnifier program. After step is complete the method returns to step to allow the voter to determine if further magnification is required.

Although an example method is described the steps may be accomplished in any appropriate order. The present invention contemplates using methods with additional steps fewer steps or different steps so long as the methods remain appropriate for adjusting the screen magnification to enable visually impaired voters to use an advanced voting system

Referring back to to initiate voting computing device may visually and or auditorily prompt the voter to insert election key into computing device or a peripheral associated with computing device . Alternatively computing device may visually and or auditorily prompt the voter to press an appropriate button on a keypad press or touch a touch sensitive screen connected to computing device insert a ballot into a ballot reader or printer or otherwise indicate that the voter is ready to begin. In one embodiment computing device may auditorily and or visually ask the voter to insert into computing device a specially coded compact disc CD which serves as election key . Insertion notification a feature of some operating systems and CD readers may then be used to start the voting process. As previously described computing device may use digital signature to verify that election key is valid. Computing device may then present a screen asking whether the voter would like help screens to assist with the voting process. The voter may choose to proceed through help screens or begin voting immediately without such help screens.

Where computing device includes a set of headphones the voter may listen to prerecorded instructions that may have been stored as .wav files or any other appropriate audio files. The ability to provide instructions in an audio format facilitates the voting process for the visually impaired or by others who may not readily understand written text appearing on a computer screen . Auditory instructions in a language selected by the voter may also be used to emphasize important steps that the voter must take during the voting process to ensure that the voting process is not compromised. In various embodiments appropriate auditory instructions may be played throughout the voting process to aid the voter in making voting selections. In a particular embodiment instructions for using the computing device may have information stored in several languages to accommodate voters for whom English may not be easy to understand. The choice of the language can be encoded in the election key or may be selected by the voter.

The use of such speech files may also be used to provide remote voting over the telephone. One or more computing devices may interface with a telephone system linking a computing device to a voter telephone. The computing device may include any computing device associated with voting system . In one example the voter telephone may be the voter s personal telephone in the voter s home or office. Using the voter telephone the voter may call into a specified number and be connected with a computing device . A computing device may verify the voter s identity using a voice print analysis or any other appropriate technique. A computing device may broadcast recorded auditory instructions to the voter over the voter telephone. The auditory instructions in a language selected by the voter may instruct the voter on how to enter a voter selection. For example the auditory instructions may instruct the voter to enter a voter selection by pressing a number on the keypad of the telephone in response to the voice messages. Alternatively or additionally the auditory instructions may instruct the voter to enter a voter selection by speaking at a prompt. When the voter has finished voting which the voter may indicate or which a computing device may determine a computing device may generate an encoded ballot . The encoded ballot may be used by the election authority to generate or verify ballot totals.

Computing device may proceed to the computer ballot after the voter has received the instructions or has chosen to forego instructions. As an example the first computer ballot question presented may be for the election of one or more candidates or for a referendum question. Any appropriate ballot formats may be used and presented to the voter. Furthermore the voter may select a choice on a ballot using keypad mouse touch screen or any other suitable technique. An example computer ballot and the process of indicating a selection on the ballot are described in greater detail below with respect to . Once voter has finished voting for a given ballot question by indicating his selections and by indicating his readiness to proceed to the next question computing device may determine if an overvote or an undervote has occurred. Alternatively and additionally computing device may determine all overvotes and undervotes after the voter has voted on all questions. Determining an overvote or undervote in an election in which only one choice is allowed as for president of the United States is very simple as only one selection may be made. However certain elections may ask the user to select n candidates from a list of m as for a town council . An overvote occurs when voter selects more than n number of candidates. Conversely an undervote occurs when voter selects less than n number of candidates. Computing device will detect an overvote condition and proceed according to the rules of the election authority. Such rules could be the allowance of the overvote at voting time but disallowance of the vote at counting time or not allowing the voter to overvote at all. On the other hand if an undervote is detected the voter may be warned that it has occurred and given a choice to proceed without adding another choice or to vote for another candidate.

When the voter has finished voting which the voter may indicate or which computing device may determine the voter is presented with a summary on screen showing the voter s selections. The voter may be presented with the choice of printing a completed ballot or returning to voting. When the voter indicates that all choices are final computing device generates an encoded ballot using ballot generator included in voting booth or otherwise in communication with computing device . In one particular embodiment the encoded ballot includes a barcode encoded with the voter s choices. However those skilled in the art will realize that generating a ballot may include generating a magnetic card punching a punch card or producing any other machine readable medium. In one embodiment the encodings on ballot may be printed using magnetic ink character recognition MICR technology. MICR is a character recognition system that uses special ink and characters. MICR provides a secure high speed method of scanning and processing information. When ballot that contains encodings printed in MICR ink is to be read ballot is passed through a machine having MICR reading capabilities. The machine magnetizes the ink and then translates the magnetic information into characters. In another embodiment encoded ballot may also contain a human readable indicator of the voter s selections that may also later be read by a document reader employing Optical Character Recognition OCR technology . The election authority may decide which type of ballot should be printed by computing device .

In addition to or instead of generating ballot computing device may store a voting record of the voter s choices in a data storage location . Voting record may be used by the election authority as the official result of the election for that computing device or the election authority may choose the encoded ballot to be the official result. Where the voting record is chosen to be the official result of the election computing device may communicate directly with a tallying computer which will tally the votes as contained in voting records of one or more computing devices . Alternatively the computing device upon which voter selections are entered may tally the votes directly and report results for that computing device . In either case encoded ballots may be used to verify the result of tallying system in the case of a recount or audit. As such there should be a correlation between the voting records in the memory of computing device and the machine readable encodings on an associated ballot . This correlation may be examined by election or judicial authorities should there be a recount or challenge after the election. By combining electronically tallying voting records and generating encoded ballots a technical advantage may be provided since advanced voting system may offer election authority multiple checks on election results.

Voting record may also contain a unique identifier linking voting record to a particular computing device . Voting record is described in greater detail below with respect to . The unique identifier may also be added to the encoded ballot . The identifier may be used as a fraud detection device since it would be difficult for counterfeit ballots to contain a code identifying a computing device . Additionally the memory of computing device and the encoded ballot may also be encoded with the digital signature of an election judge. Digital signature may be used as a method of authenticating encoded ballot . Using public key technology ballots so marked have a much smaller chance of being substituted with fraudulent ballots.

Encoded ballot may also include one or more ballot data fields. The ballot data field may be represented by a barcode magnetic stripe series of characters printed using magnetic ink character recognition MICR technology or other machine readable medium. Alternatively or additionally the ballot data field may include a series of human readable numbers and or letters. To prevent fraud the ballot data field may be unique to a particular encoded ballot .

In particular embodiments the ballot data field may provide information about the election the voter and or the voter s selections. For example when read by the appropriate machine the machine readable ballot data field may translate to 

A ballot data field may also include a field recording a double count protection code DCPC such as 2345 in the example ballot data field above . A DCPC may be randomly assigned to each voter voting at the precinct. Each DCPC generated is stored in the voting computer. The voting computer is programmed to consult a table of assigned DCPCs to ensure that no DCPC is assigned more than once. The DCPC of a ballot is read by an appropriate computer when tallying votes and that computer and potentially other associated computers keep a record of which ballots have been tallied according to the DCPC of the ballot. Therefore if an attempt is made to accidentally or fraudulently recount the ballot such a recount will be rejected since the DCPC of the ballot is already recorded as having been read. Because the DCPC is randomly assigned inspection of the DCPC cannot lead to an association of the ballot with a specific voter and ballot secrecy is maintained.

A ballot data field may also include a series of digits or other indicators that identify the voter s selections. For example the voter generating the example ballot data field made five choices and voted for candidates 10 20 30 40 and 50 . Although digits are used in the example ballot data field any other appropriate technique may be used for identifying the voter s selections.

Although the ballot data field of an encoded ballot may seem as if it is randomly generated one studying a series of encoded ballots and ballot data fields may decode the arrangement of numbers and or letters. Accordingly unscrupulous persons might generate fraudulent encoded ballots in an attempt to effect or compromise the outcome of the election. To prevent fraud the example ballot data field may also include a field for two or more anti fraud digits. In the example ballot data field described above the anti fraud digits are indicated as xx. Anti fraud digits provide a check of all other digits in a ballot data field. The anti fraud digits may be generated in any appropriate manner and may be encrypted in a way that is unique for each election or as often as desired by the election authority . One method of generating the anti fraud digits sums the digital value of each character in a ballot data field and reduces that sum modulo 99 to arrive at the 2 anti fraud digits. In one embodiment before summing the digital values are looked up on an encryption key that has every possible alphabetic and numeric character code. For example the string ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ1234567890 may be an encryption key. Finding the position of the character to be encoded on the key gives the encrypted value. One skilled in the art can use other well known encryption methods.

A component of voting system may operate to verify the authenticity of the ballot using the ballot data field. For example ballot reader and or vote tallying reader may store the anti fraud digits or the algorithm used to generate the anti fraud digits and may verify the authenticity of encoded ballot by comparing the anti fraud digits included in the ballot data field to anti fraud digits known or generated by ballot reader and or vote tallying reader . Other components of voting system may also be used to verify the authenticity of encoded ballot by verifying the anti fraud digits appended to the ballot data field.

In some elections the number of voter choices may be very large. For example a large number of voter selections are possible in a general election that includes questions regarding the retention of a large number of judges. In such cases the ballot may contain more than one ballot data field. Alternatively one or more ballot data fields may include information about the election and or the voter and one or more other data fields may be used to identify the voter s selections.

Each ballot data field may contain anti fraud and ECC digits to ensure the integrity of the ballot data field. Furthermore when more than one ballot data field appears on the ballot each ballot data field is numbered with the ballot data field number and the total of number of ballot data fields. For example in one embodiment the ballot data fields appear according to the following form 

Although the example ballot data field described above includes digits for storing information about the election the precinct the voter and the voter s selections the described ballot data field is for example purposes only. The ballot data field may include any information that is useful to the election authority and this information may be included in any order. In alternative embodiments the ballot data field may not be coded to include information relevant to the election or the voter. Instead the ballot data field may include any randomly generated arrangement of numbers or letters. Regardless of the techniques used to generate the ballot data field the fraudulent duplication of encoded ballots may be prevented where the ballot data field is unique to the particular encoded ballot . If during the tallying or verifying process duplicate ballot data fields are encountered the encoded ballots with such duplicate ballot data fields may be scrutinized or excluded from the election totals. One skilled in the art will notice that duplication of ballots is prohibited despite the fact that voters may make identical selections. The combination of DCPC computer number and precinct number is assured to be unique across the entire election jurisdiction for each election.

In certain embodiments of system voting booth may also include a ballot reader capable of reading encoded ballot in the form generated by ballot generator . Alternatively the reader may be shared in a separate private location within the polling place. Voters may use the reader to verify that the encodings on ballot actually express the voter s intent. If after receiving a translation of encoded ballot from ballot reader the voter desires to change encoded ballot the voter may ask an election judge for a new election key and the previously generated encoded ballot may be destroyed. This ensures that in the case where encoded ballot is the official vote there is no opportunity for the voter who changes his mind to vote more than once.

The next step in the voting process is a formal tallying of the all cast votes using tallying system . In one embodiment tallying system may be at the polling place. The voter may present encoded ballot to an election judge who then inserts encoded ballot into a vote tallying reader . Vote tallying reader is preferably capable of reading barcodes and other machine readable formats and may be connected to a tallying computer . Additionally vote tallying reader may be adapted to accommodate reading a large number of ballots . The tallying computing device verifies that digital signature of the election judge is correct and also verifies that the ballot data field on encoded ballot has not been used before. This ensures that votes may not be counted twice as a result of confusion at the polling place. The tallying computing device may also check that the computing device identifier when added to encoded ballot is valid.

To ensure that there is no misreading of the encoded ballot encodings on ballot may include error correcting codes ECCs . ECCs are derived from the other digits in the encodings and may be used to independently verify that a reading of the encodings is correct. Because an ECC may be derived from the encodings the ECC may be said to include redundant information. A system employing ECCs can identify redundant information contained within a character string to determine the presence of errors within the remaining characters of the character string. Example systems employing error correcting codes to detect and correct errors may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4 334 309 issued to Bannon et al. on Jun. 8 1982 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 282 686 issued to Cypher on Aug. 28 2001. As implemented in voting system any computing device within system may include ECC software enabling the computing device to generate identify and translate ECCs within the encodings on ballot .

In particular embodiments the ballot data field or other encoding on ballot may include one or more ECCs within the stream of characters or bits comprising the ballot data field or other encoding. For example the field described above as storing anti fraud digits may alternatively or additionally store ECCs. In certain embodiments the anti fraud digits may serve both purposes. For example purposes only and not by way of limitation assume that the encodings on ballot include the following binary string 10110011 10. In this example the first eight bits of the binary string comprise the ballot data field and the last two bits of the binary string comprise the ECC. In this example each digit or bit of the ECC is a function of a four bit portion of the binary string. The first ECC bit is a function of the first four bits of the ballot data field and the second ECC bit is a function of the last four bits of the ballot data field. The example binary string uses a simple function to create the ECC bits. It is recognized however that the function may include any mathematical algorithm applicable to the binary string. The example function merely adds the relevant four bits and determines whether the sum is even or odd. In the example the ECC digit or bit representing an odd sum is a numeral 1 and the ECC digit or bit representing an even sum is a numeral 0. Accordingly because the sum of the first four bits is an odd five the first ECC bit is a 1. Because the sum of the second four bits is an even two the second ECC bit is a 0. The process of calculating sums over different groups of bits is repeated in order to arrive at a total ECC. Recreating these sums when the characters are read provides the ability to correct single bit errors as described in the references.

Various components of voting system may be software enabled to generate and or identify ECC digits or bits. In particular embodiments computing device and ballot generator may generate ECC digits or bits and encode the ECC digits or bits on encoded ballot at voting booth . ECC digits or bits may be generated and appended to the ballot data field. Alternatively ECC digits or bits may be encoded independently on encoded ballot . ECC digits or bits may be identified by the placement of the ECC digits or bits in the binary string comprising the ballot data field or by the location of the ECC digits or bits on encoded ballot . In particular embodiments ballot reader vote tallying reader tallying computing device and or any other computing device within voting system may be enabled with ECC technology. When reading a ballot an ECC enabled component of voting system may ensure that there are no errors by re performing the function used to create the ECC digits or bits and comparing the result to the ECCs stored in the binary string. In this manner components of voting system such as ballot reader vote tallying reader and tallying computing device may verify that the bits within a binary string have been correctly read. ECC technology enables voting system to detect single and double bit errors in the binary string or other encodings on encoded ballot i.e. an error in one or two bits of the ballot data field. The detection of single and double bit errors enables tallying computing device to determine if an encoded ballot should be re read discredited or flagged for visual inspection by the election authority. In particular embodiments ECC technology may also allow for the automatic correction of single bit errors i.e. a bit in the ECC does not match an associated portion of the binary string comprising the ballot data field. By automatically correcting single bit errors tallying computing device may count encoded ballots that might otherwise be discarded or disqualified from consideration.

When polling place tallying is used tallying computer maintains an ongoing and updated count for votes cast at that particular precinct. If tallying computer loses its memory or must be reset for some reason encoded ballots can be reread by vote tallying reader to recreate the precinct totals. After the last vote is cast tallying computer may be used to create a special printed report of precinct totals and may also contain digital signature of an election judge. In one embodiment the report may be called in to a central counting facility sent by fax or other electronic means or manually carried to the central counting facility. The special report may also be machine readable. Thus the central counting facility need only read or otherwise tally the special reports of multiple precincts in order to obtain an authority wide result. In another embodiment centralized tallying may be used. In this embodiment tallying computer and vote tallying reader are located at a centralized location rather than at each precinct. As a further alternative the tallying system may not be necessary at all except for auditing votes in case of a recount or election challenge. In such an embodiment the vote may be tallied electronically using the voting record as described above.

The various components of system may be associated with one or more computers in one or more locations. For example some or all of voter identifier system voting booth and tallying system may be located in the same location and be implemented using one or more computing device . Furthermore voter identifier system voting booth and tallying system may share one or more components if appropriate. Additionally although data storage device for storing digital signature is illustrated in as a separate storage location from data storage location for storing registration record it is recognized that all data could be stored in a single data storage location. Similarly although shown as separate from computing device it is recognized that data storage locations may be included in computing device . For example the hard drive of computing device may serve as a data storage location

As a further modification system may operate without using an election key generator and election key . In one embodiment a voter may be given a ballot after being verified as a registered voter. The voter may take the ballot to voting booth and insert the ballot into ballot generator . After completing the voting process ballot generator may then encode the ballot with the voter s selections to create encoded ballot . In an alternative embodiment the voter need not be given a ballot before entering voting booth . Rather ballot generator may independently create encoded ballot . Regardless of whether system includes an election key and regardless of the process used to create encoded ballot encoded ballots may be read verified tallied or otherwise handled by election authority as described above.

A paper ballot voting system as described above requires printing specialized ballots prior to each election. In addition to being expensive a pre printed paper ballot system requires a sufficient amount of lead time for preparing and printing the ballots. Because system requires no preprinted ballots system may be leased to an election authority to mitigate election costs. In one embodiment system could be leased to an election authority for the same cost of preparing preprinted ballots for a printed ballot system.

According to one embodiment of system a voter registers to vote as described above and provides identification information such as a driver s license indicating the voter s name and address. Pertinent information pertaining to the voter is stored in a registration record as described above with regard to . Registration record may include a number of fields or segments that each includes information or other data relating to the voting process. This information or other data may be in alphanumeric graphical or any other appropriate format. Contained in the fields within registration record may be the voter s name the voter s street address the voter s city of residence and the voter s state of residence and postal code . The address fields are often important to the registration process because the address fields may be used to determine the voter s precinct which may also be stored in voting record . The address fields and or precinct may also be used to determine the specific ballot questions to be issued to a voter in an election where local issues vary from place to place. The voter may also be required to sign a voter registration card. The signature provided may be used to verify that the person presented is the bona fide registered voter. In one embodiment an election authority may choose to store an image of voters signature in signature field of registration record .

In another embodiment the voter may be required to provide a biometric sample in addition to or in lieu of the signature . A biometric sample may be associated with a high degree of certainty to certain personal biological characteristics of a person and may be stored for later authentication purposes. The digital representation of a biometric sample may be stored in the biometric field . According to the biometric method selected by the election authority more than one biometric sample may be stored and additional fields for additional biometric samples may be reserved in registration record . The analysis of the biometric sample and the linkage of that biometric sample to a voter is called a biometric identification. That biometric identification may be a based on a thumbprint such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 729 334 a retinal scan as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 956 122 a voice print such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 901 203 or 6 205 204 or any other biometric identification or combinations thereof. In order to account for changes in physical characteristics of registrants over time the dates that each biometric sample was created may be stored in date fields and of registration record . As shown in the biometric identification is stored in data storage location . In other embodiments the election authority may opt to store the biometric identification in a centralized storage database or print the biometric identification on a portable medium such as a magnetic stripe card bar coded card or other suitable medium.

Registration record is used to authenticate the voter s identity at election time. In one embodiment when the voter arrives at the polling place the voter is asked to present a signature and that signature is compared against digitized signature . Election judge may also or alternatively ask the voter to present a polling place biometric sample of the same type that was provided when the voter registered and as is currently stored in field or of registration record . Polling place biometric sample can be used in conjunction with appropriate computing facilities to match the polling place biometric sample with biometric sample stored in the registration record . The election authority may opt to store the biometric identification in a centralized storage database or print the biometric identification on a portable medium such as a magnetic strip car bar coded card or other suitable medium. One advantage of storing registration record in a portable medium that is retained by the voter is avoiding centralized storage of biometric identification data which may be seen by some as a threat to privacy. Nonetheless the election authority may prefer a centralized storage to ensure that voters are not denied the right to vote simply because the voter lost his voter registration card or other medium storing the biometric sample. In such an embodiment the polling place biometric sample provided by the user may be compared via communication techniques with the biometric sample stored centrally or the centrally stored information may be copied or communicated to computing facilities at the polling place.

A computerized voting system may be new to many voters who are not experienced in using computers. Therefore in one embodiment the voting authority may decide to present only one question at a time on screen . Also context sensitive instructions may appear on screen after each voter action. According to one embodiment when a ballot question first appears instructions may be displayed on the screen regarding how to select a candidate and instructions may be displayed regarding how to proceed to the next or previous questions. Instructions to the voter may be placed in a part of the screen that is not related to voting. To further minimize voter confusion instructions to the voter may be displayed in a different typeface color and or font size. Additionally an election authority may decide to include instructions informing the voter that spoken instructions are available on a headset if the voter clicks on instructions . As is illustrated in after the voter indicates a selection the context sensitive on screen instructions may be displayed to inform the user how to change his selection. The voter may then proceed with the next question or may return to a previous question.

Particular embodiments also provide the ability to guide the voter through casting a write in ballot. Some election jurisdictions do not count write in votes unless a candidate has properly registered as a write in candidate. In that case the voting system may show a box on the screen indicating that write in votes may be made when a voter has a write in choice. The voter may be allowed to select write in as a candidate choice using any of the above described methods. Once selected an instruction may appear explaining that the voter will be able to write the name of the write in candidate on encoded ballot once produced by ballot generator . A space may be created on encoded ballot allowing the voter to add such a name. The fact that there is a write in candidate on the computer ballot is encoded in ballot to allow for manual processing of the write in. Alternatively the voter may be instructed that he should type the name of the write in candidate on keyboard or otherwise enter the candidate s name. The voter may also or alternatively write in the name manually.

As mentioned above particular embodiments of the present invention allow the visually impaired or those who are not proficient in reading to vote. If the voter selects to listen to instructions on headphones as described above the voter is guided through the voting process by prerecorded spoken instruction. The name of the office and the candidates names are spoken to let the voter know who all the candidates are. The list may be repeated to minimize confusion. The voter may then be told to press a mouse button press anywhere on the touch sensitive screen or take any other appropriate action to indicate the selection of a candidate whose name is spoken at that time. To ensure the user s selection was properly registered the system may then repeat to voter the selection that was made. Similarly computing device may speak instructions to voter on how to proceed for example click now to go back or click now to go forward . The voter s intent is registered by the time proximity between the spoken prompt and voter s pressing of the button or other appropriate action.

In one embodiment the election authority may decide at the time the user leaves each ballot question to perform an undervote overvote test as described with regard to . Again depending on a particular embodiment and election laws overvotes and undervotes may or may not be allowed. According to the options provided by particular embodiments the user may be warned that an undervote or an overvote has occurred at the time the voter leaves a ballot question. Alternatively or additionally such warnings may be presented to the voter at the end of the voting session according to the rules of the election authority.

After voter s identity is authenticated an election key is generated at step and given to the voter. An encoded digital signature of the election judge for voter s precinct may be stored on election key . The voter inserts election key into computing device associated with a voting booth or a peripheral in communication with computing device at step . Computing device may communicate with election key at step to retrieve voter information. For example voter information may include an electronic ballot to be used by the voter that was stored on election key or information identifying an electronic ballot stored at computing device to be used by the voter.

At step after an appropriate ballot or other voter information is retrieved computing device presents an instruction screen to the voter to allow the voter to decide whether to see detailed instructions before voting. In one embodiment step may also include the voter choosing to listen to auditory instructions and donning headphones connected to computing device . Alternatively voter may choose at step to forgo the instruction screens altogether. At step the first ballot question is presented to the voter. Example ballot questions were described in greater detail above in regard to . Voter then enters voter selections to the ballot question at step . In one embodiment step includes the voter indicating a selection by typing on keyboard . In other embodiments step may include voter indicating a selection by clicking on mouse or touching touch sensitive monitor . As part of step and after voter has indicated his voter selection a screen may appear that informs the voter of how he may proceed to the next ballot question or return to the previous ballot question. Computing device may audit voter s selection as a step to determine whether there has been an undervote or overvote before proceeding to the next ballot question. Where such an irregularity is detected computing device may inform voter of the situation and may prompt voter to remedy the situation if local election laws allow. Alternatively this step may not be performed at all or may be performed after the voter has completed the ballot.

At step computing device determines whether there are additional ballot questions to be presented to the voter. If additional questions exist to present to the voter the method returns to step and computing device presents the next question to the voter. Computing device will continue the process by proceeding through steps until the last ballot question is presented to the voter. After all ballot questions are presented to the voter the method proceeds to step where computing device presents the voter with a summary of voter selections. In one embodiment step includes giving the voter the choice of either finalizing voting selections as they appear in the summary or returning to previous screens to change his voting selections before finalizing his voter selections. Where voter chooses to return to previous screens the method will return to step and proceed forward from there. At step the voter s selections are stored in an anonymous voting record . Multiple voting records may be used for audit purpose when irregularities are discovered or when a vote is challenged.

As described above computing device may be coupled to ballot generator . Step includes production of a machine readable encoded ballot by ballot generator . Encoded ballot may be encoded with the voter s selections. At step voter selections are tallied. In one embodiment the multiple encoded ballots may be tallied by a tallying computing device . Step may include feeding the encoded ballots to a ballot reader that tallies the votes at each precinct. Alternatively or additionally step may include tallying encoded ballots at a centralized location. In such embodiment encoded ballots may be carried to the centralized location or may be electronically transmitted to the centralized polling place. As a further alternative step may include tallying the multiple anonymous voting records generated by computing device to produce precinct totals.

At step a determination is made as to whether any irregularities have occurred in either the tallying process or the selections cast. This determination may be made by a computing device the tallying computer a ballot reader or a person associated with the election authority. If such a problem has occurred the method may continue by recounting encoded ballots at step . Additionally or alternatively voting records as stored in computing device may be recounted to provide an additional check on ballot totals. Recounts may also be made using a substantially similar procedure as described in above with regard to step in response to requests by candidates or others challenging election results.

Computing device may proceed through the voting process in the order as shown in steps in and as described above. However it is recognized that one skilled in the art may perform the steps of the method in any suitable order.

One embodiment of the present invention allows absentee ballots to be distributed to voters without such adhesive backing. As shown in associated with each candidate is a bar code that contains an encrypted code that will define the voter s choice. The ballot also contains an identifying area with the name picture and or other information identifying the candidate. Near the start of the bar code is a box and two arrows straddling bar code . When indicating a choice the absentee ballot voter is asked to fill in box between the pair of arrows with a pen or pencil. When box is filled in the appropriate bar code will be obliterated. For an example to demonstrate this technique assume that bar code for candidate George Washington contains the code 2. Assume that the bar code for candidate John Adams contains the code 1. When the voter fills in box in order to vote for George Washington the code 2 will no longer be able to be read by the machine reader. When read the absence of the code associated with the candidate along with the codes not obliterated of the other candidates for the same office unequivocally indicates the voter s choice in a machine readable fashion.

Although illustrates absentee ballot as including bar code absentee ballot may include any other machine readable means for indicating a voter selection. Each machine readable area may be proximate to and associated with identifying area . In one example the machine readable area may include a symbol or character that may be marked or otherwise altered by a voter to indicate the voter s selection. Accordingly machine readable area may include one or more dashes underscores or a box proximate to identifying area . A voter may indicate a voter selection by checking or otherwise marking the dashes underscores or box.

In another example absentee ballot may include a series of numbers and or letters associated with each candidate. In particular embodiments the numbers and or letters may be printed using magnetic ink character recognition MICR technology. MICR is a character recognition system that uses special ink and characters. MICR provides a secure high speed method of scanning and processing information. When absentee ballot that contains encodings printed in MICR ink is to be read absentee ballot is passed through a machine having MICR reading capabilities. The machine magnetizes the ink and then translates the magnetic information into characters. For reading and decoding absentee ballots any computing system or ballot reader such as ballot reader vote tallying reader and tallying computer may include software enabling MICR recognition and translation.

In making a voter selection the voter may be requested to obliterate or alter the machine readable area. For example the voter may be requested to scratch through the machine readable area associated with the candidate for whom the voter is selecting. When scratched through or otherwise altered the machine readable area associated with a candidate and the corresponding identifying area will no longer be readable by the machine reader. In this example the absence of a code associated with the candidate along with the codes not obliterated for the other candidates for the same office unequivocally indicates the voter s choice in a machine readable fashion.

In other embodiments the voter may be requested to obliterate or alter the machine readable areas associated with each candidate that the voter is not selecting. In these embodiments the scratched through or obliterated machine readable area will not be readable by the machine reader. The only machine readable area that will be detected and read by the machine reader will be the machine readable area that the voter has not marked or altered. In this example when read the presence of the code associated with the candidate chosen and the absence of any other machine readable codes unequivocally indicates the voter s choice in a machine readable fashion. Regardless of the type of machine readable indicator used possible technical advantages of such a system are improved accuracy and rate of speed in counting absentee ballots . After absentee ballots are read tallying system may be used to count such absentee ballots .

Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments numerous changes substitutions variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations transformations and modifications as fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

