---

title: Charging member cleaning roller, charging member cleaning roller for charging device, process cartridge and image forming apparatus
abstract: There is provided a charging member cleaning roller including: a core body; and an elastic layer that is provided on a peripheral surface of the core body and includes a polyurethane foam obtained from at least a polyester polyol, a foam stabilizer, and a catalyst. Moreover, there is provided a charging member cleaning roller including: a core body; and an elastic layer that is provided on a peripheral surface of the core body and includes a urethane foam having an open-cell structure, a resilience of approximately 15% to 30%, and a hardness of approximately 150N to 230N.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07801461&OS=07801461&RS=07801461
owner: Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
number: 07801461
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070216
---
This application is based on and claims priority under 35 USC 119 from Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 195956 filed Jul. 18 2006 and No. 2006 195954 filed Jul. 18 2006.

The present invention relates to a charging member cleaning roller which is applied to an image forming apparatus for forming an image by the electrophotographic method and cleans a charging member for charging an image holding member. Moreover the present invention relates to a charging device a process cartridge and an image forming apparatus using the charging member cleaning roller.

A photoreceptor drum is used as the image holding member in image forming apparatuses such as electrophotographic copiers and laser beam printers and in electrostatic recording apparatuses which form a toner image on the surface of an image holding member and transfer the toner image onto paper by an electrophotographic method. Moreover a corotron member is arranged with respect to the photoreceptor drum so that the surface of the photoreceptor drum is charged by the electric discharge from the corotron. However when the corotron is used in order to charge the surface of the photoreceptor drum to a predetermined potential it is necessary to apply a high voltage of several kV which causes a problem in that ozone is generated by the corona discharge and the ozone causes deterioration of the photoreceptors or any rubber provided in the image forming apparatus. Therefore in such an image forming apparatus using the corotron as described above in addition to selecting the material and shape of members used in the apparatus it is necessary to provide an exhaust fan for discharging the ozone to the outside of the apparatus and to provide an auxiliary device which makes the ozone contained in the emission gas harmless.

Moreover in an apparatus provided with such a corona discharge means there is a problem in that if dust in the air fixing oil or the like float inside the apparatus the corotron wire gets dirty and the photoreceptor drum is not uniformly charged so that image unevenness easily occurs. Here in some cases in order to periodically clean the corotron wire so as to prevent nonuniformity of the electric discharge a device for periodically cleaning the wire is used by arranging a cleaning device or the like for the corotron wire. However providing a cleaning device or the like for the corotron wire involves additionally providing an extra device causing a problem in terms of space. Moreover attaching an extra device to a small photoreceptor drum or the like causes a problem of increasing the constraints for designing the apparatus. In order to solve such an inconvenience in the case of using the corotron wire as described above devices are drawing attention in which a charging member such as a charging roller is used to charge the photoreceptor drum by bringing into contact therewith.

Furthermore mechanisms which use a charging member such as a charging roller generally utilize pulse discharge. However since the image holding member surface is charged by a pulse discharge generated in a minute space between the image holding member and the charging roller the state of the image holding member surface becomes one of being continuously etched resulting in further acceleration of film wearing of the image holding member and having an adverse effect of becoming unsuable with long term usage in some cases.

Here in order to suppress the pulse discharge so as to reduce the film wearing of the image holding member a charging device is proposed in which charging involving applying a direct current voltage DC hereunder DC charging is utilized as follows.

In this method the image holding member surface is charged only by a direct current voltage and no alternating voltage is applied. Therefore the amount of current flowing into the image holding member is very small. That is it means that the pulse discharge into the image holding member is also decreased and it is considered that as a result the etching effect on the image holding member photoreceptor is reduced and the film wearing of the image holding member is kept small.

The amount of discharging current in DC charging is determined by the resistance value of the contact charging roller and the state of the pulse discharge greatly depends on the surface nature of the contact charging roller. Consequently in order to uniformly charge the image holding member surface only by applying a direct current voltage a more uniform electrical resistance and a surface smoothness are required compared to the case of superimposing an alternating voltage. Consequently in order to improve the uniformity of the electrical resistance and the surface smoothness a cost increment is unavoidable. Moreover in DC charging dirt mainly external additives of the toner is easily adhered onto the charging roller surface and the adhered dirt changes the electrical resistance and the surface state thereby easily interfering with uniform charging. The reason is considered that since no alternating voltage is applied no oscillating electric field is generated and thus the dirt adhered onto the charging roller is hard to remove.

Therefore in order to keep satisfactory images for a long time while reducing the film wearing of the image holding member by DC charging a device for cleaning the charging roller or a device for preventing dirt from being adhered onto the charging roller is essential.

With respect to the above problem there are attempted a method of forming the surface layer of the charging roller from a highly releasable material a method of applying a reverse bias that is opposite to the charging polarity at each of fixed timings so as to reverse the polarity of a residue toner to move toward the image holding member and so forth.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a charging member cleaning roller including 

an elastic layer that is provided on a peripheral surface of the core body and comprises a polyurethane foam obtained from at least a polyester polyol a foam stabilizer and a catalyst.

A charging member cleaning roller according to an exemplary embodiment of an aspect of the present invention hereunder simply referred to as the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention includes a core body and an elastic layer that is provided on the peripheral surface of the core body and includes a polyurethane foam obtained from at least a polyester polyol a foam stabilizer and a catalyst. Moreover as necessary between the core body and the elastic layer may be provided an intermediate layer using a hot melt adhesive or the like and on the peripheral surface of the elastic layer may be provided a surface layer using a fluoroplastic tube an acrylic emulsion or the like.

A charging member cleaning roller according to another exemplary embodiment of an aspect of the present invention hereunder simply referred to as the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention includes a core body and an elastic layer that is provided on the peripheral surface of the core body and includes a urethane foam having an open cell structure a resilience in a range of 15 to 30 and a hardness in a range of 150N to 230N. Moreover as necessary between the core body and the elastic layer may be provided an intermediate layer using a publicly known adhesive or a conductive adhesive having conductive particles such as a carbon black added in a thermoplastic resin such as an ethylene vinyl acetate resin and on the peripheral surface of the elastic layer may be provided a surface layer using a natural rubber latex a butadiene rubber latex a styrene butadiene rubber latex an acrylonitrile butadiene rubber latex an acrylic rubber latex a polyurethane rubber latex a polyester rubber latex a polyester rubber latex a fluoro rubber latex or the like containing conductive particles such as a carbon black.

Next is a description of respective members of the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention and the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention hereunder both may be referred to as cleaning roller of an aspect of the present invention .

The core material is described. As the core material there is generally used a molding of iron copper brass stainless steel aluminum nickel and the like. In addition as the core material there may be also used a resin molding having conductive particles dispersed therein or the like.

Here is a description of the elastic layer of the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention. As described above the urethane foam of the elastic layer is obtained from at least a polyester polyol a foam stabilizer and a catalyst.

Here is a description of the polyester polyol. Examples of the polyester polyol include a condensed polyester polyol specific examples of which include those obtained by a dibasic acid and a hydroxyl compound. That is an adipate polyol obtained by dehydration condensation of these. Examples of the adipate polyol include an ethylene glycol adipate a diethylene glycol adipate a butylene glycol adipate and a trimethylolpropane diethylene glycol adipate.

Specific examples of the condensed polyester polyol include those obtained by condensation of a dicarboxylic acid such as an adipic acid a glutaric acid a succinic acid a sebacic acid a pimelic acid and a suberic acid a diol such as an ethylene glycol a diethylene glycol a 1 4 butanediol a 1 6 hexanediol a propylene glycol and a neopentyl glycol or a triol such as a trimethylolethane and a trimethylolpropane .

Examples of the condensed polyester polyol also include a polycarbonate polyol such as a polycarbonate diol having a structure in which an alkylene group such as a hexylene group a xylylene group or the like is aligned in the main chain via a carbonate bond .

The dosage of the polyester polyol may be such that the ratio of hydroxyl value in the polyester polyol to isocyanate groups in an isocyanate is desirably 0.5 to 1.5 more desirably 0.8 to 1.1 and yet more desirably 0.9 to 1.0.

As the isocyanate there may be used a tolylenediisocyanate a diphenylmethanediisocyanate a naphthalenediisocyanate a tolidinediisocyanate an isophoronediisocyanate a hexamethylenediisocyanate a xylylenediisocyanate a hydrogenated xylenediisocyanate a hydrogenated diphenylmethanediisocyanate a triisocyanate a tetramethylxylenediisocyanate a lysine ester triisocyanate a lysinediisocyanate a trimethylhexamethylenediisocyanate a dimer acid diisocyanate and a norbornenediisocyanate. The isocyanate may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in combination.

Next is a description of the foam stabilizer. Examples of the foam stabilizer include an anionic surfactant and a cationic surfactant.

Specific examples of the anionic surfactant include fatty acid soaps such as potassium laurate sodium oleate and sodium castor oil sulfate esters such as octyl sulfate lauryl sulfate lauryl ether sulfate and nonyl phenyl ether sulfate sulfonate salts such as sodium salt of alkylnaphthalenesulfonate e.g. lauryl sulfonate dodecyl sulfonate dodecylbenzene sulfonate triisopropylnaphthalene sulfonate and dibutylnaphthalene sulfonate naphthalene sulfonate formalin condensate monooctyl sulfosuccinate dioctyl sulfosuccinate lauric acid amide sulfonate and oleic acid amide sulfonate phosphate esters such as lauryl phosphate isopropyl phosphate and nonyl phenyl ether phosphate and sulfosuccinate salts such as sodium dialkyl sulfosuccinate e.g. sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate disodium lauryl sulfosuccinate and disodium lauryl polyoxyethylene sulfosuccinate.

Specific examples of the cationic surfactant include amine salts such as laurylamine hydrochloride strearylamine hydrochloride oleylamine acetate stearylamine acetate and stearylaminopropylamine acetate and quaternary ammonium salts such as lauryltrimethylammonium chloride dilauryldimethylammonium chloride distearylammonium chloride distearyldimetylammonium chloride lauryldihydroxyethylmethylammonium chloride oleylbispolyoxyethylenemethylammonium chloride lauroylaminopropyldimethylethylammonium ethosulfate lauroylaminopropyldimethylhydroxyethylammonium perchlorate alkylbenzenedimethylammonium chloride and alkyltrimethylammonium chloride.

Among them sulfate esters such as octyl sulfate lauryl sulfate lauryl ether sulfate and nonyl phenyl ether sulfate are desirable in terms of the form stability. The foam stabilizer may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in combination.

Here because abnormal images are generated by contamination of the charging member a foam stabilizer other than generally used silicone surfactants such as dimethyl silicone oil and polyether denatured silicone oil may be used as the foam stabilizer.

The dosage of the foam stabilizer is desirably 0.1 to 5 weight more desirably 0.3 to 3 weight and yet more desirably 0.5 to 2 weight based on the total amount of the polyol and the isocyanate.

Next is a description of the catalyst. Example of the catalyst include amine compounds such as triethylamine tetramethylethylenediamine triethylenediamine TEDA bis N N dimethylamino 2 ethyl ether N N N N tetramethylhexamethylenediamine bis 2 dimethylaminoethyl ether trade name TOYOCAT ET manufactured by Tosoh Corporation metal carboxylate such as potassium acetate and potassium octylate and organic metal compounds such as dibutyltin dilaulate. Among them an amine catalyst may be used in terms of the suitability for manufacturing a water foaming polyurethane foam. These reactive catalysts may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

The dosage of the catalyst is desirably 0.01 to 5 weight more desirably 0.05 to 3 weight and yet more desirably 0.1 to 1 weight based on the total amount of the polyol and the isocyanate. If a catalyst is not used unreacted polymers remain on the cleaning roller and bleed in the contact area with the charging member causing image defects.

Next is a description of other components which may be added. Examples of other compounds which may be added include a conductive agent. Examples of the conductive agent include carbon conductive agents such as Ketchen black acetylene black oil furnace black and thermal black and ionic conductive agents such as ammonium compounds e.g. tetraethylammonium and stearyltrimethylammonium chloride.

Examples of other components which may be added also include additives such as a flame retardant an antidegradant and a plasticizer. These other components may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in combination. These additives may be solely used or two or more thereof may be simultaneously used.

Next is a description of a method of manufacturing the urethane foam. The method of manufacturing the urethane foam is not specifically limited and may be according to an ordinary method an example of which is as follows. Firstly as raw materials a polyurethane polyol a foam stabilizer a catalyst and as necessary a conductive agent and the like are mixed and are then heated to effect a reaction of curing so as to obtain the urethane foam.

The temperature and time for mixing the raw materials are not specifically limited. The temperature for mixing is normally in a range of 10 to 90 C. and desirably 20 to 60 C. The time for mixing is normally about 10 seconds to 20 minutes and desirably 30 seconds to 5 minutes. Moreover when the mixture is heated to effect a reaction of curing the polyurethane foam can be obtained by foaming using a conventionally and publicly known method.

Here the foaming method is not specifically limited and any method may be used such as a method of using a foaming agent and a method of mixing in bubbles by means of mechanical agitation.

The elastic layer of the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention is described. As mentioned above the urethane foam forming the elastic layer has an open cell structure a resilience of 15 to 30 and a hardness of 150N to 230N. Here the open cell structure means a structure having multiple cells inside of the urethane foam in a state where adjacent cells are joined with each other.

The resilience of the urethane foam is 15 to 30 preferably 18 to 27 and more preferably 20 to 25 . By bringing this resilience into the above range a sufficient cleaning performance of the cleaning roller may be obtained.

If this resilience is less than 15 the force generated for restoring from the compressed state where the cleaning roller is in contact with the charging member is too weak to obtain a sufficient cleaning performance and thus transfer residue of toner and foreign matter are adhered accumulated on the charging member generating defects in the image.

On the other hand if this resilience is greater than 30 even if the cleaning performance is satisfactory the force generated for restoring from the compressed state where the cleaning roller is in contact with the charging member is too strong nonuniformly increasing the shaved amount of the charging member surface. Therefore if the charging member is continuously used the charging ability is nonuniformly decreased generating stripe shaped defects in the image.

Here the resilience of the foam urethane can be controlled by for example a crosslink point concentration for synthesizing polyurethane and a number of bubbles cells in the foam body. As the crosslink point concentration gets higher the resilience is prone to be increased. Moreover as the number of bubbles cells in the foam body is greater the resilience is prone to be decreased.

The measurement of the resilience is according to JIS K 6400 1997 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. A test piece of 50 100 100 mm or more is cut out. A steel ball having a diameter of 16 mm and a weight of 16 g is dropped down from a height of 500 mm to the top face of the test piece. The maximum height of rebound is represented by a percent of the drop height 500 mm .

The hardness of the polyurethane foam is 150N to 230N more preferably 170N to 220N and yet more preferably 190N to 210N. When this hardness is in the above range a sufficient cleaning performance of the cleaning roller may be obtained.

If this hardness is less than 150N even if the abovementioned force generated for restoring the cleaning roller is sufficient the effect of getting rid of adhered substances on the charging member may be decreased and satisfactory cleaning performance may not be demonstrated.

On the other hand if this hardness is greater than 230N even if the cleaning performance is satisfactory the surface of the charging member is scratched at an early stage generating fine stripe shaped defects in the image.

Here the hardness of the urethane foam may be controlled by the crosslink point concentration for synthesizing polyurethane. As the crosslink point concentration gets higher the hardness is prone to be increased.

The measurement of the hardness is according to JIS K 6400 1997 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. A test piece of 50 380 380 mm is cut out which is vertically pushed in such that the thickness thereof becomes 75 of the initial thickness. Immediately after that the load is removed and again the test piece is pushed in such that the thickness thereof becomes 25 of the initial thickness which is then left still for 20 seconds. The load at this time is read out.

The urethane foam preferably has a number of bubbles number of foamed cells in the open cell structure in a range of 40 cells 25 mm to 58 cells 25 mm more preferably a range of 45 cells 25 mm to 55 cells 25 mm and yet more preferably a range of 48 cells 25 mm to 53 cells 25 mm. When this number of cells is in the above range the cleaning roller may demonstrate a further improved cleaning performance.

If this number of cells is less than 40 cells 25 mm the cleaning roller itself may increase the effect of scratching the charging member surface with the adhered substance on the charging member and the contamination of the charging member may be worsened.

On the other hand if the number of cells is more than 58 cells 25 mm the strength of the skeleton part of the foam body held by the mesh constituted by fine cells may be decreased and the cleaning roller itself may be easily torn off or peeled off. Furthermore the resilience may be decreased causing a problem of damaging the cleaning performance. The number of cells may be controlled by the dosage of a publicly known foaming agent such as carbon dioxide and a fluorine compound.

Here the number of cells is measured using an optical microscope by means of a visual observation in which a line having a length of 50 mm is drawn in an arbitrary position on the surface of a test piece of 100 100 10 mm and the number of cells on the line is counted so as to obtain the number of cells per 25 mm. The line is drawn in three arbitrary positions on the test piece and the average value of these three positions is set as the number of cells.

The urethane foam may be either one of a polyester polyurethane foam and a polyether urethane foam but is desirably a polyester urethane foam. Since the polyester urethane foam has a hydrophilic property if it is used as the cleaning roller adhered substances on the charging member surface are readily adsorbed and a further improved cleaning performance may be demonstrated.

The polyester foam is obtained from for example at least a polyester polyol and an isocyanate. Moreover as required other additives such as a foam stabilizer a catalyst a curing agent a crosslinking agent a foaming agent a flame retardant an antidegradant a plasticizer and a conductive agent may be used.

Here is a description of the polyester polyol. Suitable examples of the polyester polyol include a condensed polyester polyol specific example of which include those obtained by a dibasic acid and a hydroxyl compound that is an adipate polyol obtained by dehydration condensation of these. Specific examples of the adipate polyol include those described for the elastic layer in the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention. Specific examples of the condensed polyester polyol include those described for the elastic layer in the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention.

The amount of the polyester polyol to be used is preferably 68 weight to 80 weight and more preferably 70 weight to 78 weight based on the total solid amount constituting the elastic layer.

Next is a description of the isocyanate. As the isocyanate there may be used a tolylenediisocyanate a diphenylmethanediisocyanate a naphthalenediisocyanate a tolidinediisocyanate an isophoronediisocyanate a hexamethylenediisocyanate a xylylenediisocyanate a hydrogenated xylene diisocyanate a hydrogenated diphenylmethanediisocyanate a triisocyanate a tetramethylxylenediisocyanate a lysine ester triisocyanate a lysinediisocyanate a trimethylhexamethylenediisocyanate a dimer acid diisocyanate and a norbornenediisocyanate. The isocyanate may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in combination.

The dosage of the isocyanate may be 16 weight to 28 weight and desirably 18 weight to 26 weight based on the total solid amount constituting the elastic layer.

Next is a description of other additives. For example suitable examples of the foam stabilizer include an anionic surfactant and a cationic surfactant.

Specific examples of the anionic surfactant include those described for the elastic layer in the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention. Specific examples of the cationic surfactant include those described for the elastic layer in the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention.

The amount of the foam stabilizer to be used is preferably 1.4 weight to 1.6 weight and more preferably 1.4 weight to 1.5 weight based on the total solid amount constituting the elastic layer.

Examples of the catalyst include an amine compound and an organic metal compound. Examples of the amine compound include triethylamine tetramethylethylenediamine and triethylenediamine. Examples of the organic metal compound include dibutyltin dilaurate dioctyltin dilaurate and dibutyltin dimalate.

The dosage of the catalyst is preferably 0.47 weight to 0.97 weight and more preferably 0.5 weight to 0.95 weight based on the total solid amount constituting the elastic layer. If a catalyst is not used unreacted polymers remain on the cleaning roller and bleed in the contact area with the charging member causing image defects.

Examples of the conductive agent include carbon conductive materials such as Ketchen black acetylene black oil furnace black and thermal black and ionic conductive materials such as ammonium compounds e.g. tetraethylammonium and stearyltrimethylammonium chloride.

Next is a description of a method of manufacturing the urethane foam. The method of manufacturing the urethane foam is not specifically limited and may be according to an ordinary method an example of which is as follows. Firstly as raw materials a polyol an isocyanate and as necessary other additives are mixed and are then heated to effect a reaction of curing so as to obtain the urethane foam.

The temperature and time for mixing the raw materials are not specifically limited. The temperature for mixing is normally in a range of 10 to 90 C. and desirably 20 to 60 C. The time for mixing is normally about 10 seconds to 20 minutes and desirably 30 seconds to 5 minutes. Moreover when the mixture is heated to effect a reaction of curing the polyurethane foam can be obtained by foaming using a conventionally and publicly known method.

Here the foaming method is not specifically limited and any method may be used such as a method of using a foaming agent and a method of mixing in bubbles by means of mechanical agitation.

Next is a description of suitable exemplary embodiments of the cleaning roller of an aspect of the present invention. The cleaning roller may be either insulative or conductive. That is the conductive layer may be either insulative or conductive.

If the cleaning roller of an aspect of the present invention is conductive it may have also have a function as a charging member which charges the image holding member. Moreover a cleaning bias may be applied thereto. Furthermore said conductive includes semiconductive.

Here insulative means a range of 10 cm or more in the volume resistivity. On the other hand conductive means a range of 10 cm or less in the volume resistivity.

The measurement of the volume resistivity is according to JIS K 6911 1995 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. A circular electrode UR probe of HIRESTER IP manufactured by Mitsubishi Yuka Kabushiki Kaisha cylindrical electrode outer diameter 16 mm ring electrode inner diameter 30 mm and outer diameter 40 mm is used and under a condition of 22 C. 55 RH a voltage of 100 V is applied. The current value at 5 seconds after the application is measured by using a micro current meter R8340A manufactured by ADVANTEST CORPORATION. The volume resistivity is obtained from the current value and the volume resistance.

The method of making the cleaning roller of an aspect of the present invention conductive is not specifically limited and may be a method of kneading a conductive material in the elastic layer and a method of spraying a conductive powder thereto. However an impregnation method is desirably applied in which the cleaning roller is impregnated with a conductive coating liquid whose electrical resistance is adjusted to 103 to 10 cm desirably 10to 10 cm . According to the impregnation method it is possible to produce the cleaning roller having a very stable volume resistivity with a very low cost. Examples of such a conductive coating liquid includes urethane silicone styrene or the like having carbon dispersed therein which is dissolved in a solvent such as ethyl acetate toluene and methylethylketone .

Next is a description of a method of manufacturing the cleaning roller of an aspect of the present invention. Examples of the method of manufacturing the cleaning roller include a method in which a raw material is injected into a mold and foamed then the urethane foam in a desired shape is coated on the core material and a method in which a urethane foam slab is obtained and processed in a desired shape by grinding or the like and then coated on the core material.

As shown in the charging device of an aspect of the present invention has for example a charging roller A for charging a charge target member such as an image holding member and a cleaning roller B arranged in contact with the peripheral surface of the charging roller A. The cleaning roller of an aspect of the present invention is applied as the cleaning roller B. In the drawing denotes the charging device.

The cleaning roller B is set such that the peripheral surface elastic layer surface thereof is for example detachably in contact with the peripheral surface of the charging roller A and the cleaning roller B is reciprocally movable in the axial direction of the charging roller A. As a result in a case where cleaning is not necessary such as a case where the image forming apparatus is halted for a long time the cleaning roller B can be put separately from the charging roller A and the surface of the charging roller A may be uniformly cleaned.

When the cleaning roller B is in contact with the charging roller A it is put in a state of being pressed by the charging roller A so as to be driven to rotate together with the rotation of the charging roller A. As a result scratches on the charging roller A may be prevented.

In the charging device of an aspect of the present invention while the charging roller surface is being cleaned by the cleaning roller B the charge target member such as an image holding member can be charged by the charging roller A.

Moreover in the case of the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention an application of a cleaning roller described later enables satisfactory cleaning of the charging roller A for a long time.

Furthermore in the case of the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention substances adhered on the charging member surface may be efficiently removed a satisfactory cleaning performance may be kept for a long time and it becomes possible to prevent image defect generation caused by contamination due to transfer residue of toner and foreign matter adhered accumulated on the charging member surface.

Hereunder is a description of the charging roller. The reference symbols are omitted in the description.

The charging roller is a member of a contact charging type and is capable of suppressing a decrease in the film thickness of the image holding member. Moreover the charging roller of a contact charging type is to charge the image holding member surface by applying a voltage to a conductive member that has been brought into contact with the image holding member surface.

Examples of the charging roller include those including of a core body having an elastic layer and a resistive layer sequentially formed on the peripheral surface thereof. The outside of the resistive layer may be provided with a protective layer as necessary.

The charging roller may be arranged pressingly in contact with the image holding member so as to be driven to rotate together with the rotation of the image holding member. Moreover the charging roller may be fitted with a driving device and arranged so as to rotate at a different peripheral velocity from that of the image holding member.

Next is a description of respective members of the charging roller. The core body is conductive and there is generally used a molding of iron copper brass stainless steel aluminum nickel or the like. In addition there may be also used a resin molding having conductive particles dispersed therein or the like.

Next is a description of the elastic layer. The elastic layer is for example conductive or semiconductive and is generally a rubber material having conductive particles or semiconductive particles dispersed therein.

As to the rubber material there may be used EPDM polybutadiene natural rubber polyisobutylene SBR CR NBR silicone rubber urethane rubber epichlorohydrin rubber SBS thermoplastic elastomer norbornene rubber fluorosilicone rubber ethyleneoxide rubber and the like.

As to the conductive particles or the semiconductive particles there may be used carbon black metals such as zinc aluminum copper iron nickel chromium and titanium and metal oxides such as ZnO AlO SnO SbO InO SnO ZnO TiO MgO AlO FeO TiO TiO SnO SbO InO ZnO and MgO. These materials may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

The resistive layer and the protective layer each may be a layer including a binder resin having conductive particles or semiconductive particles dispersed therein so as to control the resistance with a volume resistivity of 10to 10 cm desirably 10to 10 cm and more desirably 10to 10 cm. The film thicknesses of the resistive layer and the protective layer are each preferably 0.01 to 1000 m desirably 0.1 to 500 m and more desirably 0.5 to 100 m.

As to the binder resin there may be used an acrylic resin a cellulose resin a polyamide resin a methoxymethylated nylon an ethoxymethylated nylon a polyurethane resin a polycarbonate resin a polyester resin a polyethylene resin a polyvinyl resin a polyalylate resin a polythiophene resin a polyolefine resin PFA Tetrafluoroethylene perfluoroalkoxy vinyl ether copolymer FEP Perfluoroethylene propylene copolymer and PET Polyethylene terephthalate a styrenebutadiene resin or the like.

As to the conductive particles or the semiconductive particles there may be used carbon black metals and metal oxides similar to those of the elastic layer. Moreover as required an antioxidant such as hindered phenol and hindered amine a filler such as clay and kaoline and a lubricant such as silicone oil may be added thereto.

As to the method of forming these layers there may be used blade coating wire bar coating spray coating dip coating bead coating air knife coating curtain coating or the like.

Examples of the method of charging the image holding member by using the charging roller include a method of applying a voltage to the charging roller wherein the applied voltage may be a direct current voltage or a direct current voltage superimposed with an alternating voltage. These methods are not specifically limited however a method of applying a direct current voltage is desirable. In particular if the image holding member surface is charged only by a direct current voltage no alternating voltage is applied. Therefore the amount of current flowing into the image holding member is very small. That is it means that the pulse discharge into the image holding member is also decreased and it is considered that as a result the etching effect on the image holding member photoreceptor may be reduced and the film wearing of the image holding member may be kept small.

On the other hand the charging roller surface is more easily contaminated in the case where only a direct current voltage is applied to the charging roller rather than the case where a direct current voltage superimposed with an alternating voltage is applied thereto. The reason is explained as follows. If a direct current voltage superimposed with an alternating voltage is applied positive and negative electric fields alternatively and continually occur on the charging roller surface due to the application of the alternating voltage and thus positively charged contaminants and negatively charged contaminants receive an electrostatically repulsive force against the charging roller surface which enables to relatively readily remove the adhered substances from the charging roller surface. It is possible to use a conventionally known cleaning roller including a resin in a brush shape a pad shape or a roller shape.

However if only a direct current voltage is applied to the charging roller a positive or negative single polar voltage is always applied to the charging roller surface contributing a state where a toner toner additives and foreign matter such as paper powder having the opposite polarity to the charging polarity are easily adhered and difficult to remove. If the above conventionally known cleaning roller including a resin in a brush shape a pad shape or a roller shape is used a satisfactory cleaning performance may not be obtained. However by using the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention a satisfactory cleaning performance may be obtained.

Here the range of the voltage is preferably positive or negative 50 to 2000 V according to the required electrostatic charge potential of the image holding member and particularly desirably 100 to 1500 V. If an alternating voltage is superimposed the peak to peak voltage is 400 to 1800 V desirably 800 to 1600 V and more desirably 1200 to 1600 V. The frequency of the alternating voltage may be 50 to 20 000 Hz and desirably 100 to 5 000 Hz.

The process cartridge includes a casing in which the charging device the electrophotographic photoreceptor a developing device a cleaning device and a fibrous member flat brush shape are combined and integrated by an installation rail. The cleaning device includes a fibrous member roll shape and a cleaning blade blade member . In the casing is provided an opening for light exposure.

Moreover the charging device of an aspect of the present invention is applied as the charging device . As described above the charging device includes the charging roller A and the cleaning roller B.

Here in the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention the cleaning roller B may be arranged in contact with the charging roller A in the following condition. As shown in in the cross section orthogonal to the respective axes of the charging roller A the cleaning roller B and the electrophotographic photoreceptor the cleaning roller B may be arranged so that a contact area of the cleaning roller B and the charging roller A is not positioned on the circumference T of the charging roller A between the position and the position on the side of the arrangement position of the electrophotographic photoreceptor from the axis point of the charging roller A assuming that is the position on the vertically upper side from the axis point of the charging roller A among the crossing positions of the line vertically passing through the axis point of the charging roller A and the circumference of the charging roller A and is a contact position of the charging roller A and the electrophotographic photoreceptor .

By arranging the cleaning roller B in this way it is possible to prevent foreign matter falling down from the cleaning roller from dropping on the charging roller A and the electrophotographic photoreceptor . Therefore since defective charge to the electrophotographic photoreceptor due to such a foreign matter may be suppressed color spot generation on the image may be prevented and thus image defects may be prevented for a long time.

Next is a description of the electrophotographic photoreceptor . is a cross sectional schematic diagram showing an exemplary embodiment of the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention. The electrophotographic photoreceptor shown in includes a conductive support and a photosensitive layer . The photosensitive layer has a structure in which an undercoating layer a charge generating layer a charge transporting layer and a protective layer are sequentially laminated on the conductive support .

Moreover to are respectively cross sectional schematic diagrams showing other exemplary embodiments of the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention. Similarly to the electrophotographic photoreceptor shown in the electrophotographic photoreceptors shown in and include the photosensitive layer having separate functions of the charge generating layer and the charge transporting layer . In and a charge generating material and a charge transporting material are contained in one layer single layer type photosensitive layer .

The electrophotographic photoreceptor shown in has a structure in which the conductive support has the charge generating layer the charge transporting layer and the protective layer sequentially laminated thereon. Moreover the electrophotographic photoreceptor shown in has a structure in which the conductive support has the undercoating layer the charge transporting layer the charge generating layer and the protective layer sequentially laminated thereon.

The electrophotographic photoreceptor shown in has a structure in which the conductive support has the undercoating layer the single layer type photosensitive layer and the protective layer sequentially laminated thereon. Moreover the electrophotographic photoreceptor shown in has a structure in which the conductive support has the single layer type photosensitive layer and the protective layer sequentially laminated thereon.

In the electrophotographic photoreceptors shown in to the undercoating layer and the protective layer are not necessarily provided.

The photosensitive layer of the electrophotographic photoreceptor may be either a single layer type photosensitive layer containing a charge generating material and a charge transporting material in one layer or a function separation type photosensitive layer in which a layer containing a charge generating material charge generating layer and a layer containing a charge transporting material charge transporting layer are separately provided. In the case of the function separation type photosensitive layer regarding the lamination sequence of the charge generating layer and the charge transporting layer either one may be the upper layer. In the case of the function separation type photosensitive layer since functions can be separated such that each layer simply has to satisfy each function higher functions may be realized.

The electrophotographic photoreceptor is not specifically limited and a publicly known photoreceptor may be applied. Hereunder is a description of respective components based on the electrophotographic photoreceptor shown in as a representative example.

Examples of the conductive support include a metal plate a metal drum and a metal belt formed from a metal or an alloy of aluminum copper zinc stainless steel chromium nickel molybdenum vanadium indium gold platinum and the like. Moreover as the conductive support there may be also used a paper a plastic film or a belt which is coated deposited or laminated with a conductive compound such as a conductive polymer and indium oxide or a metal or an alloy of aluminum palladium gold or the like.

In order to prevent interference fringes generated when laser beams are irradiated the surface of the conductive support is desirably roughened so that the center line average roughness Ra is 0.04 m to 0.5 m. If the center line average roughness Ra of the surface of the conductive support is less than 0.04 m the effect of preventing the interference is prone to be insufficient since the surface of the conductive support becomes like a mirror surface. On the other hand if the center line average roughness Ra exceeds 0.5 m even if a coating film is formed the image quality is prone to be insufficient. Using incoherent light for a light source may be suitable for prolonging the service life since roughening for preventing the interference fringes is not particularly required and defects generated due to ruggedness on the surface of the conductive support may be prevented.

The method of roughening may be wet honing in which a polishing agent is suspended in water and sprayed onto the support centerless grinding in which the support is pressed against a rotating whetstone so as to be continuously ground anodizing or the like.

Moreover as another method of roughening there is also preferably used a method in which the surface of the conductive support is not roughened but a conductive or semiconductive powder is dispersed in a resin and a layer is formed on the support surface so as to roughen the surface by the particles dispersed in the layer.

The anodizing is such that aluminum is used as the anode and anodized in an electrolytic solution so as to form an oxide film on the aluminum surface. Examples of the electrolytic solution include a sulfuric acid solution and an oxalic acid solution. However the porous anodized film as it stands is chemically active and easily contaminated and the resistance greatly varies by the environment. Therefore sealing is performed in which micropores in the anodized film are closed by means of volume expansion due to a hydration reaction in steam under pressure or boiling water a metal salt of nickel or the like may be added so as to change into a more stable hydrous oxide.

The thickness of the anodized film is desirably 0.3 m to 15 m. If the film thickness is less than 0.3 m the barrier property against the injection is prone to be poor and the effect is prone to be insufficient. On the other hand if it exceeds 15 m the residual potential is prone to be increased by repetitive usage.

Moreover the conductive support may be subjected to a treatment by an acidic water solution or a boehmite treatment. The treatment by an acidic treatment solution including phosphoric acid chromic acid and hydrofluoric acid is performed in the following manner. Firstly the acidic treatment solution is prepared. The blending proportion of phosphoric acid chromic acid and hydrofluoric acid in the acidic treatment solution may be such that phosphoric acid is in a range of 10 weight to 11 weight chromic acid is in a range of 3 weight to 5 weight hydrofluoric acid is in a range of 0.5 weight to 2 weight and the concentration of the total acids thereof is in a range of 13.5 weight to 18 weight . The treatment temperature may be 42 C. to 48 C. however the coating film may be further quickly and thickly formed by keeping a high treatment temperature. The thickness of the coating film may be 0.3 m to 15 m. If it is less than 0.3 m the barrier property against the injection may be poor and the effect is prone to be insufficient. On the other hand if it exceeds 15 m the residual potential is prone to be increased by repetitive usage.

The boehmite treatment can be performed by immersing the support in pure water at 90 C. to 100 C. for 5 minutes to 60 minutes or bringing the support into contact with heated steam of 90 C. to 120 C. for 5 minutes to 60 minutes. The thickness of the coating film may be 0.1 m to 5 m. It may be further anodized with an electrolytic solution having a low solubility with the coating film such as an adipic acid a boric acid a borate salt a phosphate salt a phthalate salt a maleate salt a benzoate salt a tartrate salt and a citrate salt.

The undercoating layer is formed on the conductive support . The undercoating layer may include for example an organic metal compound and or a binder resin.

Examples of the organic metal compound include an organic zirconium compound such as a zirconium chelate compound a zirconium alkoxide compound and a zirconium coupling agent an organic titanium compound such as a titanium chelate compound a titanium alkoxide compound and a titanate coupling agent and an organic aluminum compound such as an aluminum chelate compound and an aluminum coupling agent as well as an antimony alkoxide compound a germanium alkoxide compound an indium alkoxide compound an indium chelate compound a manganese alkoxide compound a manganese chelate compound a tin alkoxide compound a tin chelate compound an aluminum silicon alkoxide compound an aluminum titanium alkoxide compound and an aluminum zirconium alkoxide compound.

In particular as the organic zirconium compound there is preferably used an organic zirconium compound an organic titanium compound and an organic aluminum compound since the residual potential is low to exhibit good electrophotographic characteristics.

Examples of the binder resins include publicly known resins such as polyvinyl alcohol polyvinyl methyl ether poly N vinylimidazole polyethylene oxide ethyl cellulose methyl cellulose an ethylene acrylic acid copolymer polyamide polyimide casein gelatin polyethylene polyester a phenolic resin a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer an epoxy resin polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinylpyridine polyurethane polyglutamic acid and polyacrylic acid. If two or more of these binder resins are used in combination the blending proportion may be appropriately set as required.

Moreover the undercoating layer may contain a silane coupling agent such as vinyltrichlorosilane vinyltrimethoxysilane vinyltriethoxysilane vinyltris 2 methoxyethoxysilane vinyltriacetoxysilane glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane aminopropyltriethoxysilane chloropropyltrimethoxysilane 2 aminoethylaminopropyltrimethoxysilane mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane ureidopropyltriethoxysilane and 3 4 epoxycyclohexyltrimethoxysilane.

In the undercoating layer an electron transporting pigment may be also mixed dispersed from the viewpoint of lowering the residual potential and improving the stability against the environment. Examples of the electron transporting pigment include an organic pigment such as a perylene pigment a bisbenzimidazole perylene pigment a polycyclic quinone pigment an indigo pigment and a quinacridone pigment described in JP A No. S47 30330 other organic pigments such as a bisazo pigment and a phthalocyanine pigment having an electron attracting substituent such as a cyano group a nitro group a nitroso group and a halogen atom and an inorganic pigment such as zinc oxide and titanium oxide.

Among these pigments a perylene pigment a bisbenzimidazole perylene pigment a polycyclic quinone pigment zinc oxide and titanium oxide may be used since the electron mobility is high.

Moreover the surface of these pigments may be treated with the above coupling agent binder resin or the like in order to control the dispersibility and the charge transporting property.

If the amount of the electron transporting pigment is too much the strength of the undercoating layer may be decreased to cause defects in the coating film and thus it is desirably used in an amount of 95 weight or less and more desirably 90 weight or less based on the total solid amount of the undercoating layer .

Moreover the undercoating layer is desirably added with a fine powder of various organic compounds or inorganic compounds in order to improve the electrical characteristics the light scattering property or the like. In particular white pigments such as titanium oxide zinc oxide zinc white zinc sulfide white lead and lithopone inorganic pigments serving as an extender pigment such as alumina calcium carbonate and barium sulfate and polytetrafluoroethylene resin particles benzoguanamine resin particles styrene resin particles and the like are effective.

The volume average particle diameter of the fine powder to be added is desirably 0.01 m to 2 m. The fine powder is added as required and the dosage thereof is preferably 10 weight to 90 weight and more desirably 30 weight to 80 weight based on the total solid amount of the undercoating layer .

The undercoating layer is formed by using an undercoating layer forming coating liquid containing the above respective constituent materials. Any organic solvent may be used for the undercoating layer forming coating liquid as long as it dissolves the organic metal compound and the binder resin and does not cause gelation or aggregation when the electron transporting pigment is mixed and or dispersed.

Examples of the organic solvent include ordinary solvents such as methanol ethanol n propanol n butanol benzyl alcohol methyl cellosolve ethyl cellosolve acetone methyl ethyl ketone cyclohexanone methyl acetate n butyl acetate dioxane tetrahydrofuran methylene chloride chloroform chlorobenzene and toluene. These may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

The method of mixing dispersing the respective constituent materials may be an ordinary method using a ball mill a roll mill a sand mill an attritor a vibratory ball mill a colloid mill a paint shaker ultrasonic waves or the like. The mixing dispersing is performed in an organic solvent.

As to the coating method for forming the undercoating layer an ordinary method may be used such as blade coating wire bar coating spray coating dip coating bead coating air knife coating curtain coating or the like.

Drying is normally performed at a temperature which allows the solvent to be evaporated and the film to be formed. In particular since the conductive support which has been subjected to the acidic solution treatment or the boehmite treatment is prone to have an insufficient effect of concealing defects of the base material the undercoating layer may be formed thereon.

The thickness of the undercoating layer is desirably 0.01 m to 30 m and more desirably 0.05 m to 25 m.

As the charge generating material publicly known materials may be used including an organic pigment such as an azo pigment e.g. bisazo pigment and trisazo pigment a condensed ring aromatic pigment e.g. dibromoanthoanthrone a perylene pigment a pyrrolopyrrole pigment and a phthalocyanine pigment and an inorganic pigment such as trigonal selenium and zinc oxide. The charge generating material may be in particular when a light source with an exposure wavelength of 380 to 500 nm is used metal or metal free phthalocyanine pigment trigonal selenium dibromoanthoanthrone or the like. Among them hydroxygalliumphthalocyanines disclosed in JP A No. 5 263007 and JP A No. 5 279591 chlorogalliumphthalocyanines disclosed in JP A No. 5 98181 dichlorotinphthalocyanines disclosed in JP A No. 5 140472 and JP A No. 5 140473 and titanylphthalocyanines disclosed in JP A No. 4 189873 and JP A No. 5 43813 are particularly desirable.

Moreover among the above hydroxygalliumphthalocyanines in particular those having an absorption maximum of 810 nm to 839 nm in absorption spectrum a primary particle diameter of 0.10 m or less and a specific surface area value of 45 m g or more by the BET method are desirable.

The binder resin may be selected from a wide range of insulating resins and also may be selected from organic photoconductive polymers such as poly N vinylcarbazole polyvinylanthracene polyvinylpyrene and polysilane. Desirable examples of the binder resin include insulating resins such as a polyvinylbutyral resin a polyarylate resin such as a polycondensation product of bisphenol A and phthalic acid a polycarbonate resin a polyester resin a phenoxy resin a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer a polyamide resin an acrylic resin a polyacrylamide resin a polyvinylpyridine resin a cellulose resin a urethane resin an epoxy resin casein a polyvinylalcohol resin and a polyvinylpyrrolidone resin. However the binder resin is not limited to these. These binder resins may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

The charge generating layer is formed by deposition of a charge generating material or from a charge generating layer forming coating liquid containing a charge generating material and a binder resin. If the charge generating layer is formed by using a charge generating layer forming coating liquid the blending ratio weight ratio of the charge generating material and the binder resin may be in a range of 10 1 to 1 10.

The method of dispersing the respective constituent materials in the charge generating layer forming coating liquid may be an ordinary method such as a ball mill dispersion method an attritor dispersion method and a sand mill dispersion method. At this time there is required a condition in which the crystal form of the pigment is not changed by the dispersion. Furthermore at the time of this dispersion it is effective to use particles having a size of desirably 0.5 m or less more desirably 0.3 m or less and yet more desirably 0.15 m or less.

Examples of the solvent used for the dispersion include ordinary organic solvents such as methanol ethanol n propanol n butanol benzyl alcohol methyl cellosolve ethyl cellosolve acetone methyl ethyl ketone cyclohexanone methyl acetate n butyl acetate dioxane tetrahydrofuran methylene chloride chloroform chlorobenzene and toluene. These may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

The coating method for forming the charge generating layer using the charge generating layer forming coating liquid may be an ordinary method such as blade coating wire bar coating spray coating dip coating bead coating air knife coating curtain coating or the like.

The thickness of the charge generating layer is desirably 0.1 m to 5 m and more desirably 0.2 m to 2.0 m.

The charge transporting layer includes a charge transporting material and a binder resin or includes a polymer charge transporting material.

Examples of the charge transporting material includes electron transporting compounds such as a quinone compound e.g. p benzoquinone chloranil bromanil and anthraquinone a tetracyanoquinodimethane compound a fluorenone compound e.g. 2 4 7 trinitrofluorenone a xanthone compound a benzophenone compound a cyanovinyl compound and an ethylene compound and hole transporting compounds such as a triarylamine compound a benzidine compound an arylalkane compound an aryl substituted ethylene compound a stilbene compound an anthracene compound and a hydrazone compound. However it is not specifically limited to these. These charge transporting materials may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

Moreover the charge transporting material may be a compound represented by the following formulae a 1 a 2 or a 3 from the viewpoint of the mobility.

In formula a 1 Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group and n10 represents 1 or 2. Moreover Arand Areach independently represent a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group CH C R C R R or CH CH CH CH C Ar . The substituent may be for example a halogen atom an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms an alkoxy group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or a substituted amino group substituted with an alkyl group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms. R R and Reach independently represent a hydrogen atom a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group or a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group and Ar represents a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group.

In formula a 2 Rand R each independently represent a hydrogen atom a halogen atom an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms or an alkoxy group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms. R R R and R each independently represent a halogen atom an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms an alkoxy group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms an amino group substituted with an alkyl group having 1 or 2 carbon atoms a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group C R C R R or CH CH CH C Ar . R R and Reach independently represent a hydrogen atom a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group or a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group. Ar represents a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group. Moreover n2 and n3 each independently represent an integer of 0 to 2.

In formula a 3 Rrepresents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms an alkoxy group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group or CH CH CH C Ar . Ar represents a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group. Rand Reach independently represent a hydrogen atom a halogen atom an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms an alkoxy group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms an amino group substituted with an alkyl group having 1 or 2 carbon atoms or a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group.

Examples of the binder resin used for the charge transporting layer include a polycarbonate resin a polyester resin a methacrylic resin an acrylic resin a polyvinyl chloride resin a polyvinylidene chloride resin a polystyrene resin a polyvinyl acetate resin a styrene butadiene copolymer a vinylidene chloride acrylonitrile copolymer a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate maleic anhydride copolymer a silicone resin a silicone alkyd resin a phenol formaldehyde resin and a styrene alkyd resin. These binder resins may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture. The blending ratio weight ratio of the charge transporting material and the binder resin may be 10 1 to 1 5.

Moreover as the polymer charge transporting material publicly known charge transporting materials may be used such as poly N vinylcarbazole and polysilane. In particular the polyester based polymer charge transporting materials disclosed in JP A No. 8 176293 and JP A. No. 8 208820 are particularly desirable since they have a high charge transporting property.

The polymer charge transporting material may be used by itself as the constituent material of the charge transporting layer and may be mixed with the binder resin to form a film.

The charge transporting layer is formed by using a charge transporting layer forming coating liquid containing the constituent materials as mentioned above.

Examples of the solvent for the charge transporting layer forming coating liquid include ordinary organic solvents such as aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. benzene toluene xylene and chlorobenzene ketones e.g. acetone and 2 butanone halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbons e.g. methylene chloride chloroform and ethylene chloride and cyclic or linear ethers e.g. tetrahydrofuran and ethyl ether. These may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

The coating method of the charge transporting layer forming coating liquid may be an ordinary method such as blade coating wire bar coating spray coating dip coating bead coating air knife coating curtain coating or the like.

The thickness of the charge transporting layer is desirably 5 m to 50 m and more desirably 10 m to 30 m.

In the photosensitive layer an additive such as an antioxidant a photostabilizer and a thermal stabilizer may be added in order to prevent deterioration of the photoreceptor due to ozone or an oxidizing gas generated in the image forming apparatus or light or heat.

Examples of the antioxidant include hindered phenol hindered amine paraphenylendiamin arylalkane hydroquinone spirochromane and spiroindanone and derivatives thereof an organic sulfur compound and an organic phosphoric compound. Examples of the photostabilizer include derivatives of benzophenone benzotriazole dithiocarbamate tetramethylpiperidine and the like.

Moreover the photosensitive layer may contain at least one type of electron accepting substance in order to improve the sensitivity to reduce the residual potential and to reduce the fatigue due to repetitive usage.

Examples of the electron accepting substance include succinic anhydride maleic anhydride dibromomaleic anhydride phthalic anhydride tetrabromophthalic anhydride tetracyanoethylene tetracyanoquinodimethane o dinitrobenzene m dinitrobenzene chloranil dinitroanthraquinone trinitrofluorenone picric acid o nitrobenzoic acid p nitrobenzoic acid and phthalic acid. Among these fluorenone compounds quinone compounds and benzene derivatives having an electron attracting substituent such as Cl CN and NOare particularly desirable.

As the resin there may be used polymer charge transporting materials such as a polycarbonate resin a polyester resin a methacrylic resin an acrylic resin a polyvinyl chloride resin a polyvinylidene chloride resin a polystyrene resin a polyvinyl acetate resin a styrene butadiene copolymer a vinylidene chloride acrylonitrile copolymer a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate maleic anhydride copolymer a silicone resin a silicone alkyd resin a phenol formaldehyde resin a styrene alkyd resin poly N vinylcarbazole polysilane and polyester based polymer charge transporting materials disclosed in JP A No. 8 176293 and JP A. No. 8 208820. Among these thermosetting resins such as a phenolic resin a thermosetting acrylic resin a thermosetting silicone resin an epoxy resin a melamine resin a urethane resin a polyimide resin and a polybenzimidazole resin are desirable. Among these in particular a phenolic resin a melamine resin a benzoguanamine resin a siloxane resin and a urethane resin are preferably used. A coating liquid containing these resins or the precursor thereof as a main component is coated then in the step of drying the solvent a heat treatment is concurrently performed thereby curing the coating liquid to form an insoluble cured film.

Examples of the phenolic resin include a monomer of phenols such as monomethylolphenols dimethylolphenols and trimethylolphenols the mixture of these monomers oligomers thereof and the mixture of these monomers and oligomers. Such a phenolic resin can be obtained by reacting a compound having a phenolic structure such as resorcine bisphenol substituted phenols having one hydroxyl group e.g. phenol cresol xylenol paraalkylphenol and paraphenylphenol substituted phenols having two hydroxyl groups e.g. catechol resorcinol and hydroquinone bisphenols e.g. bisphenol A and bisphenol Z and biphenols with a compound such as formaldehyde and paraformaldehyde under the presence of an acidic catalyst or an alkali catalyst. As the phenolic resin commercially available phenolic resins may be used. Moreover as the phenolic resin a resol type phenolic resin is desirable. In the present specification a relatively large molecule having about 2 to 20 repetitive molecular structural units is referred to as an oligomer and a molecule smaller than the above molecule is referred to as a monomer.

As the acidic catalyst a sulfuric acid a paratoluene sulfonic acid a phosphoric acid or the like is used. Moreover as the alkali catalyst a hydroxide of an alkali metal or an alkali earth metal such as NaOH KOH Ca OH Ba OH or an amine catalyst is used.

Examples of the amine catalyst include ammonia hexamethylenetetramine trimethylamine triethylamine and triethanolamine. However the amine catalyst is not limited to these. If a basic catalyst is used the carrier is remarkably trapped by residual catalyst and the electrophotographic characteristic is prone to be worsened. Therefore the basic catalyst may be neutralized with an acid or may be deactivated or removed by bringing into contact with an ion exchange resin or an absorbent such as silicagel.

As to the melamine resin and the benzoguanamine resin various types may be used such as a methylol type having a methylol group as it is a full ether type having all methylol groups alkyletherificated a full imino type and a mixed type of methylol and imino groups. Among these from the viewpoint of coating liquid stability the ether type may be used.

As the urethane resin there may be used a polyfunctional isocyanate an isocyanurate a blocked isocyanate having such a polyfunctional isocyanate or an isocyanurate blocked with alcohol or ketone or the like. Among these from the viewpoint of coating liquid stability the blocked isocyanate or the isocyanurate may be used. These are desirable since they are cross linked with additives for the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention under heating.

As the silicone resin there may be used a resin derived from compounds represented by the following formula X or the like.

In the protective layer conductive particles may be added in order to reduce the residual potential. Examples of the conductive particles include metals metal oxides and carbon black. Among these metals or metal oxides are more desirable. Examples of the metals include aluminum zinc copper chromium nickel silver and stainless steel and plastic particles having these metals deposed on the surface thereof. Examples of the metal oxides include zinc oxide titanium oxide tin oxide antimony oxide indium oxide bismuth oxide indium oxide doped with tin tin oxide doped with antimony or tantalum and zirconium oxide doped with antimony. These may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in combination. When two or more thereof are used in combination they may be simply mixed or may be in the form of a solid solution or fusion. The average diameter of the conductive particles is preferably 0.3 m or less and particularly desirably 0.1 m or less from the viewpoint of transparency of the protective layer .

In the curable resin composition for forming the protective layer a compounds represented by the following formula X may be added in order to control various physical properties such as the strength and the film resistance of the protective layer . Si R Q X 

In formula X Rrepresents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group or a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group Q represents a hydrolyzable group and c represents an integer of 1 to 4.

Specific examples of the compounds represented by formula X include the following silane coupling agents. Examples of the silane coupling agents include tetrafunctional alkoxysilane c 4 such as tetramethoxysilane and tetraethoxysilane trifunctional alkoxysilane c 3 such as methyltrimethoxysilane methyltriethoxysilane ethyltrimethoxysilane methyltrimethoxyethoxysilane vinyltrimethoxysilane vinyltriethoxysilane phenyltrimethoxysilane glycidoxypropylmethyldiethoxysilane glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane aminopropyltriethoxysilane aminopropyltrimethoxysilane aminopropylmethyldimethoxysilane N aminoethyl aminopropyltriethoxysilane tridecafluoro 1 1 2 2 tetrahydrooctyl triethoxysilane 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl trimethoxysilane 3 heptafluoroisopropoxy propyltriethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluoroalkyltriethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecyltriethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorooctyltriethoxysilane bifunctional alkoxysilane c 2 such as dimethyldimethoxysilane diphenyldimethoxysilane and methylphenyldimethoxysilane and monofunctional alkoxysilane c 1 such as trimethylmethoxysilane. In order to improve the strength of the film trifunctional or tetrafunctional alkoxysilane may be used. In order to improve the flexibility and the film forming property monofunctional or bifunctional alkoxysilane may be used.

A silicone hard coating agent mainly formed from these coupling agents may be used. As a commercially available hard coating agent there may be used KP 85 X 40 9740 and X 40 2239 manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. and AY42 440 AY42 441 and AY49 208 manufactured by Dow Corning Toray Co. Ltd. .

In the curable resin composition for forming the protective layer a compound having two or more silicon atoms as shown in the following formula XI may be used in order to improve the strength of the protective layer . B Si R Q XI 

In formula XI B represents a divalent organic group Rrepresents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group or a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group Q represents a hydrolyzable group and d represents an integer of 1 to 3.

More specifically desirable examples of the compound represented by the above formula XI include the following compounds XI 1 to XI 16 . Me represents a methyl group and Et represents an ethyl group.

Furthermore in order to control the film characteristics and to prolong the liquid life a resin soluble in an alcohol or ketone solvent may be added. Examples of such a resin include a polyvinylbutyral resin a polyvinylformal resin a partially acetalized polyvinylacetal resin having a part of butylal modified by formal acetoacetal or the like for example S LEC B and K manufactured by Sekisui Chemical Company Limited a polyamide resin a cellulose resin and a phenolic resin. In particular from the viewpoint of improving the electrical characteristics a polyvinylacetal resin is desirable.

Moreover various resins may be added in order to control the electric discharging gas resistance the mechanical strength the scratch resistance the particle dispersibility and the viscosity to decrease the torque to control the amount of abrasion to prolong the pot life and the like. In the present exemplary embodiment a resin soluble in alcohol may further be added. Examples of the resin soluble in an alcohol solvent include a polyvinylbutyral resin a polyvinylformal resin a partially acetalized polyvinylacetal resin having a part of butylal modified by formal acetoacetal or the like for example S LEC B and K manufactured by Sekisui Chemical Company Limited a polyamide resin and a cellulose resin. In particular from the viewpoint of improving the electrical characteristics a polyvinylacetal resin may be used.

The weight average molecular weight of the above resin is preferably 2000 to 100000 and more desirably 5000 to 50000. If the weight average molecular weight is less than 2000 a desired effect is prone to be unobtainable. If it is more than 100000 the solubility is prone to be lowered limiting the dosage or causing defects of film formation at the time of coating. The dosage is preferably 1 weight to 40 weight more desirably 1 weight to 30 weight and yet more desirably 5 weight to 20 weight . If the dosage is less than 1 weight a desired effect is difficult to obtain. If it is more than 40 weight image blurring may be easily generated in high temperature and high humidity. The above resins may be used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

Moreover in order to prolong the pot life and to control the film characteristics a cyclic compound having a repetitive structure unit represented by the formula XII or the derivative of such a compound may be contained therein.

Examples of the cyclic compound having the repetitive structure unit represented by formula XII include a commercially available cyclic siloxane. Specific examples of the cyclic siloxane include cyclic dimethylcyclosiloxanes such as hexamethylcyclotrisiloxane octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane decamethylcyclopentasiloxane and dodecamethylcyclohexasiloxane cyclic methylphenylcyclosiloxanes such as 1 3 5 trimethyl 1 3 5 triphenylcyclotrisiloxane 1 3 5 7 tetramethyl 1 3 5 7 tetraphenylcyclotetrasiloxane and 1 3 5 7 9 pentamethyl 1 3 5 7 9 pentaphenylcyclopentasiloxane cyclic phenylcyclosiloxanes such as hexaphenylcyclotrisiloxane fluorine atom containing cyclosiloxanes such as 3 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl methylcyclotrisiloxane hydrosilyl group containing cyclosiloxanes such as a mixture of methylhydrosiloxane pentamethylcyclopentasiloxane and phenylhydrocyclosiloxane and a vinyl group containing cyclosiloxanes such as pentavinylpentamethylcyclopentasiloxane. These cyclic siloxane compounds may be used or two or more thereof may be used in a mixture.

Furthermore in order to control the dirt adhesion resistance the lubricity and the hardness of the surface of the electrophotographic photoreceptor various particles may be added to the curable resin composition for forming the protective layer .

One example of the particles includes a silicon atom containing particle. The silicon atom containing particle means a particle containing silicon in the constituent elements and specific examples thereof include colloidal silica and a silicone particle. The colloidal silica used as the silicon atom containing particle is selected from those having a volume average particle diameter of desirably 1 nm to 100 nm and more desirably 10 nm to 30 nm and is dispersed in an acidic or alkaline aqueous dispersion or an organic solvent such as alcohol ketone and ester. Commercially available silicon atom containing particles may be used. The solid content of the colloidal silica in the curable resin composition is not specifically limited however it is desirably in a range of 0.1 weight to 50 weight and more desirably a range of 0.1 weight to 30 weight based on the total solid amount in the curable resin composition in terms of the film forming property the electrical characteristics and the strength.

The silicone particle used as the silicon atom containing particle is selected from a silicone resin particle a silicone rubber particle and a silica particle having the surface treated with silicone which are in a spherical shape and have a volume average particle diameter of desirably 1 nm to 500 nm and more desirably 10 nm to 100 nm. Commercially available silicone particles may be used.

The silicone particle is a particle of a small diameter that is chemically inactive and superior in the dispersibility into a resin and the required contents thereof may be small in order to obtain satisfactory characteristics. Therefore the surface properties of the electrophotographic photoreceptor may be improved without interfering with the crosslink reaction. That is in a state where the silicone particles are evenly taken into a strong crosslink structure the lubricity and the water repelling property of the surface of the electrophotographic photoreceptor may be improved and satisfactory abrasion resistance and dirt adhesion resistance may be kept for a long time. The content of the silicone particle in the curable resin composition is desirably in a range of 0.1 weight to 30 weight and more desirably a range of 0.5 weight to 10 weight based on the total solid amount in the curable resin composition.

Moreover examples of other particles include fluoro particles such as tetrafluoroethylene trifluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene vinyl fluoride vinylidene fluoride and the like particles formed from a copolymer resin obtained by copolymerization of a fluororesin and monomers having a hydroxyl group as described in Proceedings of Lectures of the 8th Polymer Materials Forum p. 89 and semiconductive metal oxide such as ZnO AlO SnO SbO InO SnO ZnO TiO ZnO TiO MgO AlO FeO TiO TiO SnO InO ZnO and MgO.

Moreover in order to control the dirt adhesion resistance the lubricity the hardness or the like of the surface of the electrophotographic photoreceptor oil such as silicone oil may be added. Examples of the silicone oil include silicone oils such as dimethylpolysiloxane diphenylpolysiloxane and phenylmethylsiloxane and reactive silicone oils such as amino modified polysiloxane epoxy modified polysiloxane carboxyl modified polysiloxane carbinol modified polysiloxane methacrylic modified polysiloxane mercapto modified polysiloxane and phenol modified polysiloxane. These may be previously added in the curable resin composition for forming the protective layer or may be impregnated under a reduced pressure or a pressurized condition after forming the photoreceptor.

Furthermore additives such as a plasticizer a surface modifier an antioxidant and a photoantidegradant may be added. Examples of the plasticizer include biphenyl chlorinated biphenyl terphenyl dibutylphthalate diethylene glycol phthalate dioctylphthalate triphenyl phosphate methylnaphthalene benzophenone chlorinated paraffin polypropylene polystyrene and various fluorocarbon hydrogens.

An antioxidant having a substructure of hindered phenol hindered amine thioether or phosphite may be added which is effective for improving the potential stability and the image quality under environmental changes.

Examples of the antioxidant include the following compounds a hindered phenol type such as SUMILIZER BHT R SUMILIZER MDP S SUMILIZER BBM S SUMILIZER WX R SUMILIZER NW SUMILIZER BP 76 SUMILIZER BP 101 SUMILIZER GA 80 SUMILIZER GM and SUMILIZER GS manufactured by SUMITOMO CHEMICAL CO. LTD IRGANOX 1010 IRGANOX 1035 IRGANOX 1076 IRGANOX 1098 IRGANOX 1135 IRGANOX 1141 IRGANOX 1222 IRGANOX 1330 IRGANOX 1425WL IRGANOX 1520L IRGANOX 245 IRGANOX 259 IRGANOX 3114 IRGANOX 3790 IRGANOX 5057 and IRGANOX 565 manufactured by Ciba Specialty Chemicals Co. Ltd. ADEKASTAB AO 20 ADEKASTAB AO 30 ADEKASTAB AO 40 ADEKASTAB AO 50 ADEKASTAB AO 60 ADEKASTAB AO 70 ADEKASTAB AO 80 and ADEKASTAB AO 330 manufactured by Asahi Denka Kogyo KK a hindered amine type such as SANOL LS2626 SANOL LS765 SANOL LS770 and SANOL LS744 manufactured by Sankyo Lifetech Co. Ltd. TINUVIN 144 TINUVIN 622LD manufactured by Ciba Specialty Chemicals Co. Ltd. MARK LA57 MARK LA67 MARK LA62 MARK LA68 and MARK LA63 manufactured by Asahi Denka Kogyo KK a thioether type such as SUMILIZER TPS manufactured by SUMITOMO CHEMICAL CO. LTD and a phosphite type such as MARK 2112 MARK PEP 8 MARK PEP 24G MARK PEP 36 MARK 329K and MARK HP 10 manufactured by Asahi Denka Kogyo KK. In particular a hindered phenol type antioxidant and a hindered amine type antioxidant is desirable. Furthermore these may be modified by a substituent capable of a cross linking reaction with a material for forming a crosslinked film such as an alkoxysilyl group.

Furthermore in order to remove the catalyst for synthesizing from a resin having a crosslink structure such as a phenolic resin a melamine resin and a benzoguanamine resin the resin may be dissolved in an appropriate solvent such as methanol ethanol toluene or ethyl acetate and then subjected to a treatment such as washing with water and reprecipitation using a poor solvent or a treatment using the following materials. Examples of such a material include a cation exchange resin such as AMBERLITE 15 AMBERLITE 200C and AMBERLYST 15E manufactured by Rohm Haas Corp. DOWEX MWC 1 H DOWEX 88 and DOWEX HCR W2 manufactured by Dow Chemical Inc. LEWATIT SPC 108 and LEWATIT SPC 118 manufactured by Bayer AG DIAION RCP 150H manufactured by Mitsubishi Kasei Corp. SUMIKAION KC 470 DUOLITE C26 C DUOLITE C 433 and DUOLITE 464 manufactured by Sumitomo Chemical Co. Ltd. and NAFION H manufactured by Du Pont Company an anion exchange resin such as AMBERLITE IRA 400 and AMBERLITE IRA 45 manufactured by Rohm Haas Corp. inorganic solids to whose surfaces protonic acid group containing groups are bonded such as Zr OPCHCHSOH and Th OPCHCHCOOH polyorganosiloxane containing a protonic acid group such as polyorganosiloxane having a sulfonic acid group heteropolyacids such as cobalt tungstic acid and phosphorous molybdic acid isopolyacids such as niobic acid tantalic acid and molybdic acid unitary metal oxides such as silica gel alumina chromia zirconia CaO and MgO complex metal oxides such as silica alumina silica magnesia silica zirconia and zeolite clay minerals such as acid clay activated clay montmorillonite and kaolinite metal sulfates such as LiSOand MgSO metal phosphates such as zirconium phosphate and lanthanum phosphate metal nitrates such as LiNOand Mn NO inorganic solids to whose surfaces amino group containing groups are bonded such as a solid obtained by reacting aminopropyltriethoxysilane on silica gel and polyorganosiloxane containing an amino group such as an amino modified silicone resin.

Moreover in order to adjust the film characteristics such as the hardness the adhesiveness and the flexibility there may be added an epoxy containing compound such as polyglycidylmethacrylate glycidylbisphenols and a phenol epoxy resin a terephthalic acid a maleic acid a pyromellitic acid a biphenyltetracarboxylic acid and the like and the anhydrides thereof. The dosage thereof is desirably 0.05 to 1 weight parts and more desirably 0.1 to 0.7 weight parts based on 1 weight part of additives for the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention.

Furthermore an insulating resin such as a polyvinylbutyral resin a polyarylate resin such as a polycondensation product of bisphenol A and phthalic acid a polycarbonate resin a polyester resin a phenoxy resin a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer a polyamide resin an acrylic resin a polyacrylamide resin a polyvinylpyridine resin a cellulose resin a urethane resin an epoxy resin casein a polyvinylalcohol resin and a polyvinylpyrrolidone resin may be mixed at a desired proportion. As a result defects of the coated film due to heat contraction cissing or adhesiveness with the charge transporting layer may be suppressed.

The protective layer is formed by using a protective layer forming coating liquid containing the above respective constituent materials. That is the protective layer may be formed by coating and curing the protective layer forming coating liquid on the charge transporting layer .

In the protective layer forming coating liquid a solvent may be used as required such as alcohols e.g. methanol ethanol propanol and butanol ketones e.g. methylethylketone tetrahydrofuran and ethers e.g. diethylether and dioxane. Other various solvents may also be used. However in order to apply dip coating generally used for the production of the electrophotographic photoreceptor an alcohol type or ketone type solvent or the mixed solvent thereof may be used. Moreover solvents having a boiling point of 50 to 150 C. are preferred. The solvents may be arbitrarily mixed for use. The amount of the solvent may be arbitrarily set. However if the amount of the solvent is too small precipitation may easily occur. Therefore the amount of the solvent is preferably 0.5 to 30 weight parts and more desirably 1 to 20 weight parts based on 1 weight part of the total solid amount contained in the protective layer forming coating liquid.

Furthermore a curing catalyst may be used in the protective layer forming coating liquid for crosslinking. Preferred examples of the curing catalyst include bissulfonyldiazomethanes such as bis isopropylsulfonyl diazomethane bissulfonylmethanes such as methylsulfonyl p toluene sulfonylmethane sulfonylcarbonyldiazomethanes such as cyclohexylsulfonylcyclohexylcarbonyldiazomethane sulfonylcarbonyl alkanes such as 2 methyl 2 4 methylphenylsulfonyl propiophenone nitrobenzylsulfonates such as 2 nitrobenzyl p toluene sulfonate alkyl sulfonates and aryl sulfonates such as pyrogallol trismethanesulfonate benzoinsulfonates such as g benzointosylate N sulfonyloximides such as N trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy phthalimido pyridones such as 4 fluorobenzenesulfonyloxy 3 4 6 trimethyl 2 pyridone sulfonic acid esters such as 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 trifluoromethyl 1 3 vinylphenyl ethyl 4 chlorobenzenesulfonate a photoacid generator such as an onium salt e.g. triphenylsulfonium methanesulfonate and diphenyliodonium trifluoromethanesulfonate a compound prepared by neutralizing a proton acid or a Lewis acid with a Lewis base a mixture of a Lewis acid and trialkylphosphate sulfonic acid esters phosphoric acid esters an onium compound and a carboxylic acid anhydride compound.

Examples of the compound prepared by neutralizing a proton acid or a Lewis acid with a Lewis base include a compound prepared by neutralizing a halogenocarboxylic acid a sulfonic acid a monoester of sulfuric acid a monoester of phosphoric acid a diester of phosphoric acid an ester of polyphosphoric acid a monoester of boric acid or a diester of boric acid with an amine such as ammonia monoethylamine triethylamine pyridine piperidine aniline morpholine cyclohexylamine n butylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine and triethanolamine or trialkylphosphine triaryl phosphine trialkyl phosphite or triarylphosphite and commercially available acid base blocked catalysts such as NACURE 2500X 4167 X 47 110 3525 and 5225 Product Names manufactured by King Industries Co. Ltd. . Examples of the compound prepared by neutralizing a Lewis acid with a Lewis base include compounds prepared by neutralizing a Lewis acid such as BF FeCl SnCl AlCl and ZnClwith a Lewis base described above.

Examples of the onium compound include triphenylsulfoniummethanesulfonate and diphenyliodoniumtrifluoromethanesulfonate.

Examples of the carboxylic acid anhydride compound include acetic anhydride propionic anhydride butyric anhydride isobutyric anhydride lauric anhydride oleic anhydride stearic anhydride n caproic anhydride n caprylic anhydride n capric anhydride palmitic anhydride myristic anhydride trichloroacetic anhydride dichloroacetic anhydride monochloroacetic anhydride trifluoroacetic anhydride and heptafluorobutyric anhydride.

Specific examples of the Lewis acid include metal halides such as boron trifluoride aluminum trichloride titanium trichloride titanium tetrachloride ferrous chloride ferric chloride zinc chloride zinc bromide stannous chloride stannic chloride stannous bromide and stannic bromide organic metal compounds such as trialkylboron trialkylaluminum dialkylaluminum halides monoalkylalminium halides and tetraalkyltin metallic chelate compounds such as diisopropoxyethylacetoacetate aluminum tris ethylacetoacetate aluminum tris acetylacetonato aluminum diisopropoxy bis ethylacetoacetate titanium diisopropoxy bis acetylacetonato titanium tetrakis n propylacetoacetate zirconium tetrakis acetylacetonato zirconium tetrakis ethylacetoacetate zirconium dibutyl bis acetylacetonato tin tris acetylacetonato iron tris acetylacetonato rhodium bis acetylacetonato zinc and tris acetylacetonato cobalt and metallic soaps such as dibutyltin dilaurate dioctyltin ester maleate magnesium naphthenate calcium naphthenate manganese naphthenate iron naphthenate cobalt naphthenate copper naphthenate zinc naphthenate zirconium naphthenate lead naphthenate calcium octylate manganese octylate iron octylate cobalt octylate zinc octylate zirconium octylate tin octylate lead octylate zinc laurate magnesium stearate aluminum stearate calcium stearate cobalt stearate zinc stearate and lead stearate. These may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in combination.

The dosage of these catalysts is not specifically limited. However it is preferably 0.1 to 20 weight parts and particularly preferably 0.3 to 10 weight parts based on 100 weight parts of the total solid amount contained in the protective layer forming coating liquid.

The coating method for coating the protective layer forming coating liquid on the charge transporting layer may be an ordinary method such as blade coating wire bar coating spray coating dip coating bead coating air knife coating curtain coating or the like. Then after the coating the coated film is dried to form the protective layer .

At the time of coating if a necessary film thickness is not obtained by one time coating the necessary film thickness can be obtained by repeated coatings for multiple times. If repeated coatings are performed for multiple times a heat treatment may be performed at each time of coating or may be performed after the repeated coatings for multiple times.

If the protective layer is formed by using a resin having a crosslink structure the curing temperature is desirably 100 to 170 C. and more desirably 100 to 160 C. at the time of crosslinking. Moreover the curing time is desirably 30 minutes to 2 hours and more desirably 30 minutes to 1 hour and the heating temperature may be changed in multi steps.

Regarding the atmosphere for performing the crosslinking reaction the electrical characteristics may be prevented from being worsened by performing the reaction under an atmosphere of a so called inactive gas against oxidation such as nitrogen helium and argon. If the crosslinking reaction is performed under an inactive gas atmosphere the curing temperature can be set higher than that of the air atmosphere and the curing temperature is desirably 100 to 180 C. and more desirably 110 to 160 C. Moreover the curing time is desirably 30 minutes to 2 hours and more desirably 30 minutes to 1 hour.

The thickness of the protective layer is preferably 0.5 to 15 m more preferably 1 to 10 m and yet more preferably 1 to 5 m.

The oxygen permeability coefficient of the protective layer at 25 C. is preferably 4 10fm s Pa or less more preferably 3.5 10fm s Pa or less and yet more preferably 3 10fm s Pa or less.

Here the oxygen permeability coefficient is an index showing the readiness of oxygen gas permeation into a layer. However from a different point of view it can be considered as a substitutional characteristic of a physical clearance ratio in the layer. Although the absolute value of the permeability coefficient differs as the type of gas changes the magnitude correlation between layers serving as a specimen is hardly reversed. Consequently the oxygen permeability coefficient may be interpreted as an index showing the readiness of general gas permeation.

That is if the oxygen permeability coefficient of the protective layer at 25 C. satisfies the above condition gas hardly permeates into the protective layer . Consequently permeation of an electric discharge product generated during the image formation process may be suppressed deterioration of compounds contained in the protective layer may be suppressed and the electrical characteristics may be kept at a high standard which is effective for improving the image quality and prolonging the service life.

If a single layer type photosensitive layer is used in the electrophotographic photoreceptor a single layer type photosensitive layer contains a charge generating material and a binder resin. For the charge generating material a similar material to that used for the charge generating layer in the function separation type photosensitive layer may be used. For the binder resin a similar binder resin to that used for the charge generating layer and the charge transporting layer in the function separation type photosensitive layer may be used. The content of the charge generating material in the single layer type photosensitive layer is desirably 10 to 85 weight and more desirably 20 to 50 weight based on the total solid amount in the single layer type photosensitive layer. In the single layer type photosensitive layer a charge transporting material or a polymer charge transporting material may be added in order to improve the photoelectronic property or the like. The dosage thereof is desirably 5 to 50 weight based on the total solid amount in the single layer type photosensitive layer. Moreover the solvent used for coating and the coating method may be similar to those for the above respective layers. The thickness of the single layer type photosensitive layer is preferably about 5 to 50 m and more preferably 10 to 40 m.

Next is a description of the developing device . The developing device is to develop an electrostatic latent image on the electrophotographic photoreceptor so as to form a toner image.

A toner used for the developing device is described. If the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention is used such a toner may have an average shape factor SF1 of 100 to 140 SF1 ML A 4 100 wherein ML represents a maximum length of the particle and A represents a projected area of the particle . The average shape factor SF1 can be obtained such that the image of the toner particle on a slide glass is measured through a video camera with an optical microscope and is taken into an image analyzer LUZEX III manufactured by Nireco Corp. so as to calculate the maximum length ML and the projected area A of the toner which are then substituted into the above equation to obtain a shape factor. The average shape factor is an average value of shape factors calculated by the above equation for arbitrary 100 toner particles. Furthermore if the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention is used the toner may have a volume average particle diameter of 2 m to 12 m more preferably 3 m to 12 m and yet more preferably 3 m to 9 m. By using such a toner satisfying the above ranges of the average shape factor and volume average particle diameter a high developing property a high transferring property and a high quality image may be obtained.

If the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention is used the toner may have an average shape factor SF1 of 110 to 135. The average shape factor shows a degree of roundness of the toner. As the shape is more rounded transfer residue of toner slipping through the cleaning blade is increased which may increase the contamination of the charging roller. On the contrary if the shape is too indeterminate the transferring property may be decreased and the transfer residue of toner may be increased which may increase the contamination of the charging roller.

Furthermore if the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention is used the toner preferably may have a volume average particle diameter of 5 m to 10 m. If this volume average diameter is too small transfer residue of toner slipping through the cleaning blade may be increased which may increase the contamination of the charging roller. In addition the fluidity of the toner may be worsened and a sufficient charging ability may not be easily applied from the carrier which may cause fogging on the background and decrease in the density reproducibility. Moreover if the volume average diameter is too large as a result the particle diameter distribution is enlarged and thus the distribution of the charging amount of toner becomes nonuniform increasing the toner having the reversed polarity which may easily cause a problem of increasing the contamination of the charging roller and may worsen the reproducibility of fine dots and gradation property.

The toner is not particularly limited by the production method. Examples of a method of producing the toner which may be used include a kneading pulvelizing method in which a mixture of a binder resin a colorant a releasing agent and as required a charge controlling agent and the like are kneaded pulvelized and classified a method in which the particle obtained by a kneading pulvelizing method is changed in shape by mechanical impact or thermal energy an emulsion polymerization coagulating method in which a polymerizable monomer of a binder resin is emulsion polymerized to obtain a dispersion liquid the dispersion liquid thus obtained is mixed with a dispersion liquid containing a colorant a releasing agent and as required a charge controlling agent and the mixture is coagulated and fused under heating to obtain toner particles a suspension polymerization method in which a polymerizable monomer used to obtain a binder resin and a solution containing a colorant a releasing agent and as required a charge controlling agent are suspended in an aqueous medium to polymerize and a dissolution suspension method in which a solution containing a binder resin a colorant a releasing agent and as required a charge controlling agent are suspended in an aqueous solvent and granulated.

Moreover a publicly known method may be used such as a production method in which the toner particle obtained in the above method is used as a core and a coagulated particles are adhered to the core and fused under heating to make a toner have a core shell structure. As to the method of producing the toner in terms of the shape controllability and the particle size distribution controllability the suspension polymerization method the emulsion polymerization coagulating method and the dissolution suspension method for producing in an aqueous solvent are preferred and the emulsion polymerization coagulating method is particularly preferred.

The toner mother particle includes a binder resin a colorant and a releasing agent and if required includes a silica and a charge controlling agent.

Examples of the binder resin used for the toner mother particle include homopolymers or copolymers of styrenes such as styrene and chlorostyrene monoolefins such as ethylene propylene butylene and isoprene vinylesters such as vinyl acetate vinyl propionate vinyl benzoate and vinyl butyrate methylene aliphatic monocarboxylates such as methylacrylate ethylacrylate butylacrylate dodecylacrylate octylacrylate phenylacrylate methylmethacrylate ethylmethacrylate butylmethacrylate and dodecylmethacrylate vinyl ethers such as vinyl methyl ether vinyl ethyl ether and vinyl butyl ether and vinyl ketones such as vinyl methyl ketone vinyl hexyl ketone and vinyl isopropenyl ketone and a polyester resin formed by copolymerization of a dicarboxylic acid and a diol.

Particularly typical examples of the binder resin include polystyrene a styrene alkylacrylate copolymer a styrene alkylmethacrylate copolymer a styrene acrylonitrile copolymer a styrene butadiene copolymer a styrene maleic acid anhydride copolymer polyethylene polypropylene and a polyester resin. Furthermore it may also include a polyurethane an epoxy resin a silicone resin polyamide modified rosin and paraffin wax.

Typical examples of the colorant include magnetic powders such as magnetite and ferrite carbon black Aniline Blue Chalcoil Blue Chrome Yellow Ultramarine Blue Du Pont Oil Red Quinoline Yellow Methylene Blue Chloride Phthalocyanine blue Malachite Green Oxalate Lamp Black Rose Bengal C.I. Pigment Red 48 1 C.I. Pigment Red 122 C.I. Pigment Red 57 1 C.I. Pigment Yellow 97 C.I. Pigment Yellow 17 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 1 and C.I. Pigment Blue 15 3.

Typical examples of the releasing agent include low molecular polyethylene low molecular polypropylene Fisher Tropsch wax montan wax carnauba wax rice wax and candelilla wax.

As the charge controlling agent publicly known charge controlling agents may be used and there can be used azo type metal complex compounds metal complex compounds of a salicylic acid and resin type charge controlling agents containing a polar group. When the toner is produced by a wet type production method a material which is hardly soluble in water may be used in terms of controlling the ionic strength and reducing waste fluid pollution. Moreover the toner may be either one of a magnetic toner in which a magnetic material is contained and a non magnetic toner containing no magnetic material.

The toner used for the developing device can be produced by mixing the above toner mother particle and the external additives by a Henshel mixer V type blender or the like. Moreover when the toner mother particle is produced by a wet type method it is also possible to externally add the additives by a wet method.

In the toner to be used for the developing device lubricating particles may be added. As the lubricating particles there may be used solid lubricants such as graphite molybdenum disulphide talcum fatty acids and fatty acid metal salts low molecular weight polyolefins such as polyethylene polypropylene and polybutene silicones which can be softened by heating fatty acid amides such as oleamide erucamide ricinoleamide and stearamide vegetable waxes such as carnauba wax rice wax candelilla wax Japan wax and jojoba oil animal waxes such as bees wax mineral and petroleum waxes such as montan wax ozocerite ceresine paraffin wax microcrystalline wax and Fischer Tropsch wax and modified products of these. These lubricating particles may be solely used or two or more thereof may be used in a combination. The volume average diameter thereof is preferably in a range of 0.1 m to 10 m. The particle size may be equalized by crushing these products having the chemical structure mentioned above. The dosage thereof into the toner is desirably in a range of 0.05 weight to 2.0 weight and more desirably a range of 0.1 weight to 1.5 weight .

In the toner used for the developing device inorganic particles organic particles and complex particles having the organic particles adhered with the inorganic particles may be added in order to remove the adhered substance and deteriorated substance on the surface of the electrophotographic photoreceptor.

Examples of the inorganic particles that may be used herein include various inorganic oxides nitrides and borides such as silica alumina titania zirconia barium titanate aluminum titanate strontium titanate magnesium titanate zinc oxide chromium oxide cerium oxide antimony oxide tungsten oxide tin oxide tellurium oxide manganese oxide boron oxide silicon carbide boron carbide titanium carbide silicon nitride titanium nitride and boron nitride.

Moreover the above inorganic particles may be treated with a titanium coupling agent such as tetrabutyltitanate tetraoctyltitanate isopropyltriisostearoyltitanate isopropyltridecylbenzenesulfonyltitanate and bis dioctylpyrophosphate oxyacetate titanate and a silane coupling agent such as 2 aminoethyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane 2 aminoethyl aminopropylmethyldimethoxysilane methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane N N vinylbenzylaminoethyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane hydrochloride hexamethyldisilazane methyltrimethoxysilane butyltrimethoxysilane isobutyltrimethoxysilane hexyltrimethoxysilane octyltrimethoxysilane decyltrimethoxysilane dodecyltrimethoxysilane phenyltrimethoxysilane o methylphenyltrimethoxysilane and p methylphenyltrimethoxysilane. Moreover inorganic particles hydrophobized by silicone oil or metal salts of higher fatty acids such as aluminum stearate zinc stearate and calcium stearate may be also used.

Examples of the organic particle include a styrene resin particle a styrene acrylic resin particle a polyester resin particle and a urethane resin particle.

Regarding the particle diameter the volume average particle diameter is desirably 5 nm to 1000 nm more desirably 5 nm to 800 nm and yet more desirably 5 nm to 700 mm. If the volume average particle diameter is less than the above lower limit the abrasion ability is prone to be insufficient. On the other hand if it exceeds the above upper limit the surface of the electrophotographic photoreceptor is prone to be scratched. Moreover the sum of the dosage of the particles and the lubricating particles mentioned above is preferably 0.6 weight or more.

As the other inorganic oxides to be added into the toner an inorganic oxide of a small diameter having a primary particle diameter of 40 nm or less may be used in order to control the powder flowability the electrification and the like and an inorganic oxide of a larger diameter may be added in order to reduce the adhesive power and to control the electrification. For these inorganic oxide particle publicly known particles may be used. Silica and titanium oxide may be used together in order to accurately control the electrification. Moreover by surface treatment of such an inorganic particle of a small diameter the dispersibility may be increased and the effect of improving the powder flowability may be increased. Furthermore carbonates such as calcium carbonate and magnesium carbonate and inorganic minerals such as hydrotalcite may also added in order to remove the electric discharge product.

The electrophotographic color toner may be used by mixing with a carrier. Examples of the carrier used herein include iron powder glass beads ferrite powder and nickel powder and those having a resin coating on the surface thereof. Moreover the blending proportion thereof to the carrier may be appropriately set.

The cleaning device is provided with a fibrous member and a cleaning blade . However the cleaning device may be provided with either one of these. The fibrous member may be formed in a roll shape or may be formed in a toothbrush shape. Moreover the fibrous member may be fixed to the cleaning device mainbody may be rotatably supported thereon or may be oscillatably supported thereon in the axial direction of the photoreceptor. Examples of the fibrous member include polyester nylon and acrylic fiber a cloth formed from an ultra fine fiber such as TRACY manufactured by Toray Industries Inc. and a brush shaped member having a resin fiber of nylon acrylic compound polyolefine polyester or the like flocked in in a substrate form or a carpet form. Moreover as the fibrous member there may be also used the above mentioned members mixed with a conductive powder and an ion conductive agent so as to apply the conductivity or the fibrous member include a conductive layer inside or outside of each fiber. If the conductivity is applied the resistance value is desirably 10 to 10 per single fiber. The thickness of the fiber of the fibrous member is desirably 30 d denier or less and more desirably 20 d or less. The density of the fiber is desirably 20 000 inchor more and more desirably 30 000 inchor more.

The cleaning device is required to remove adhered substances such as an electric discharge product on the surface of the photoreceptor by a cleaning blade or a cleaning brush. In order to achieve this purpose for a long time and to stabilize the function of the cleaning member the cleaning member may be supplied with a lubricating material lubricating component such as a metallic soap higher alcohol wax and silicone oil.

For example if a roll shaped member is used as the fibrous member it is preferable to bringing into contact with a lubricating material such as a metallic soap and wax so as to supply the lubricating constituent to the surface of the electrophotographic photoreceptor. For the cleaning blade an ordinary rubber blade is used. If such a rubber blade is used as the cleaning blade in this manner supplying a lubricating component to the surface of the electrophotographic photoreceptor is particularly effective to suppress chip off or abrasion of the blade.

The process cartridge described above is detachable with respect to the image forming apparatus mainbody and the image forming apparatus includes the process cartridge and the image forming apparatus mainbody in its structure.

The exposure device may be any type as long as it can expose the charged electrophotographic photoreceptor to form an electrostatic latent image. Moreover as the light source of the exposure device a surface emission laser of a multi beam method may be used.

The transfer device may be any type as long as it can transfer the toner image on the electrophotographic photoreceptor to the transfer target medium intermediate transfer body and for example ordinarily used devices in a roll shape may be used.

For the intermediate transfer body a semiconductive polyimide polyamideimide polycarbonate polyallylate polyester rubber or the like in a belt shape intermediate transfer belt may be used. Moreover the shape of the intermediate transfer body may be a belt shape or may be a drum shape. There is an image forming apparatus of a direct transfer type which does not have this intermediate transfer body and the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention is suitable for such an image forming apparatus. The reason is that an image forming apparatus of a direct transfer type has a tendency in that paper powder talc and the like are generated from a print sheet which are easily adhered onto the electrophotographic photoreceptor and these adhered substances cause image defects. However according to the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention since the cleaning property is excellent paper powder talc and the like are readily removed and a stable image can be obtained even with an image forming apparatus of a direct transfer type.

The transfer target medium in an aspect of the present invention is not specifically limited as long as it is a medium to which the toner image formed on the electrophotographic photoreceptor is transferred. For example if an image is transferred directly from the electrophotographic photoreceptor to a paper or the like the paper or the like is the transfer target medium. If the intermediate transfer body is used the intermediate transfer body is the transfer target medium.

In the image forming apparatus the electrophotographic photoreceptor and the other devices are separated. The charging device the developing device and the cleaning device are detachable by drawing or pushing rather than being fixed to the image forming apparatus mainbody by means of a screw caulking bonding or welding.

Since the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention has excellent abrasion resistance cartridging may be unnecessary in some cases. Consequently the charging device the developing device and the cleaning device are designed to be respectively detachable by drawing or pushing rather than being fixed to the mainbody by means of a screw caulking bonding or welding and thereby the cost for members per each print can be reduced. Moreover two or more devices thereof may be integrated to form a detachable cartridge and thereby the cost for members per each print can be further reduced.

The image forming apparatus has the same structure as that of the image forming apparatus except that the charging device the developing device and the cleaning device are respectively cartridged. The other reference symbols in denote the same parts as those in .

In the tandem type image forming apparatus since the amount of abrasion of each electrophotographic photoreceptor differs due to the usage proportion of each color the electrical characteristics of each electrophotographic photoreceptor is prone to be different. Accompanying this the toner development characteristic gradually changes from the initial state to change the hue of the printed image and therefore a stable image is prone to be unobtainable. In particular in order to miniaturize the image forming apparatus an electrophotographic photoreceptor having a small diameter tends to be used. If an electrophotographic photoreceptor of 30 mm or less is used this proneness becomes remarkable. Here when the structure of the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention is employed even if the diameter is less than 30 mm abrasion of the surface thereof may be suppressed. Therefore the electrophotographic photoreceptor of an aspect of the present invention may be effective for a tandem type image forming apparatus.

Moreover above the charging device is arranged an exposure device which includes a plane emission laser array as an exposure light source. The exposure device modulates multiple laser beams emitting from the light source according to the image to be formed and deflects them in the main scanning direction so as to scan over the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum in parallel with the axis of the photoreceptor drum . As a result an electrostatic latent image is formed on the peripheral surface of the charged photoreceptor drum .

To the side of the photoreceptor drum is arranged the developing device . The developing device includes a roll shaped housing which is rotatably arranged. Inside of this housing is formed with four storage units. In respective storage units are provided developing units Y M C and K. The developing units Y M C and K respectively include developer rolls respectively storing toners of yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K colors inside.

The image forming apparatus forms a full color image while the photoreceptor drum forms an image four times. That is while the photoreceptor drum forms four respective images of four colors the charging device charges the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum and the exposure device repeats to scan with laser beams that have been modulated according to any one of Y M C and K image data showing the color image to be formed over the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum while switching the image data used for modulating the laser beams per each image formation image formation of one color by the photoreceptor drum . Moreover in a state where a developer roll of any one of the developing units Y M C and K is faced to the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum the developing device operates the developing unit faced to the peripheral surface to develop the electrostatic latent image that has been formed on the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum into a specific color and to form a toner image of the specific color on the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum which is repeated while rotating the housing so as to switch over the developing units used for developing the electrostatic latent image per each color image formation image formation of one color by the photoreceptor drum . As a result on the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum Y M C and K toner images are sequentially formed.

Moreover on the lower side of the photoreceptor drum an endless intermediate transfer belt is arranged. The intermediate transfer belt is wrapped over rollers and and arranged so that the peripheral surface thereof is in contact with the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum . The rollers and are rotated by transmission of a driving force of a motor not shown to rotate the intermediate transfer belt in the arrow B direction in .

On the opposite side to the photoreceptor drum over the intermediate transfer belt a transfer device transfer unit is arranged. The toner image that has been formed on the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum is transferred to the image formation surface of the intermediate transfer belt by the transfer device one color by one color. Finally the images of all four colors are superimposed.

Moreover on the opposite side to the developing device over the photoreceptor drum a lubricant supply device and a cleaning device are arranged on the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum . After the toner image that has been formed on the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum is transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt the lubricant supply device supplies a lubricant to the peripheral surface of the photoreceptor drum and an area in which the transferred toner image was held on the peripheral surface is cleaned by the cleaning device .

On the lower side of the intermediate transfer belt a paper receiver is arranged. In the paper receiver multiple sheets of paper P serving as a recording material are piled and contained. On the left oblique upper side a pick out roller is arranged. On the downstream side in the direction of pick out of the paper P by means of the pick out roller a roller pair and a roller are sequentially arranged. A recording paper positioned on the top of the piled paper is picked out from the paper receiver by the rotation of the pick out roller and conveyed by the roller pair and the roller .

Furthermore on the opposite side to the roller over the intermediate transfer belt a transfer device is arranged. The paper P conveyed by the roller pair and the roller is sent to the portion between the intermediate transfer belt and the transfer unit and the toner image that has been formed on the image formation surface of the intermediate transfer belt is transferred by the transfer device . On the downstream side in the conveyance direction of the paper P from the transfer device a fixing device including a fixing roller pair is arranged. After the transferred toner image is fused and fixed by the fixing device the paper P having the toner image transferred thereon is ejected out from the image forming apparatus and placed on the ejection paper receiver not shown .

The structure of the process cartridge of an aspect the present invention and the structure of the image forming apparatus of an aspect the present invention are not specifically limited and each may be a publicly know structure.

Hereunder is a more detailed description of the present invention with reference to examples. However the present invention is not limited to these examples.

As the core material a core metal Ni electroless depositioned SUM having a length of 240 mm and an outer diameter of 8 mm is prepared. On this core material is sequentially formed an ion conductive layer which also functions as a thick conductive elastic layer and a surface layer having a composition shown in the Table 2 below via an adhesive layer 3 m of a phenolic conductive adhesive so as to produce charging rollers A B and C.

Firstly a cylindrical aluminum base material having an outer diameter of 84 mm to which a honing treatment has been applied is prepared. Next 100 weight parts of zirconium compound product name ORGATIX ZC540 manufactured by Matsumoto Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. 10 weight parts of silane compound product name A1110 manufactured by Nippon Unicar Company Limited 400 weight parts of isopropanol and 200 weight parts of butanol are mixed to obtain an undercoating layer forming coating liquid. This coating liquid is coated on the aluminum base material by immersion and heated and dried at 150 C. for 10 minutes to form an undercoating layer of 0.1 m.

Next 1 weight part of hydroxygalliumphthalocyanine having strong diffraction peaks at the Bragg angles 2 0.2 of 7.5 9.9 12.5 16.3 18.6 25.1 and 28.3 in the CuK characteristic X ray diffraction spectrum 1 weight part of polyvinyl butylal trade name name S LEC BM S manufactured by Sekisui Chemical Co. Ltd. and 100 weight parts of n butyl acetate are mixed and are then dispersed together with glass beads for one hour by a paint shaker so as to obtain a charge generating layer forming coating liquid. This coating liquid is coated on the undercoating layer by immersion and heated and dried at 100 C. for 10 minutes to form a charge generating layer of 0.15 m.

Next 2 weight parts of a charge transporting material shown in the following formula V 3 3 weight parts of a high molecular compound viscosity average molecular weight 50 000 having structural units as shown in the following formula V 4 and 20 weight parts of chlorobenzene are mixed to obtain a charge transporting layer forming coating liquid.

The obtained charge transporting layer forming coating liquid is coated on the charge generating layer by immersion coating method and heated at 110 C. for 40 minutes to form a charge transporting layer having a thickness of 20 m. In this manner the photoreceptor having the undercoating layer the charge generating layer and the charge transporting layer formed on the aluminum base material to which a honing treatment is applied is referred to as photoreceptor .

Next 7 weight parts of a resol type phenolic resin trade name PL 2211 manufactured by Gun Ei Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. and 0.03 weight parts of methylphenylpolysiloxane are prepared. This is then dissolved in 15 weight parts of isopropanol and 5 weight parts of methylethylketone to obtain a protective layer forming coating liquid. This coating liquid is coated on the photoreceptor by immersion coating method and dried at 130 C. for 40 minutes to form a protective layer having a thickness of 3 m. The obtained photoreceptor is referred to as photoreceptor .

As shown in Table 3 and Table 4 predetermined materials and blending quantity are weighed out. They are sufficiently mixed using a high speed agitator mixing temperature 25 C. and mixing time 10 seconds . Then this blended liquid is transferred to a metal tray and foamed and is then left at room temperature over night to obtain a urethane foam.

The obtained urethane foam is cut to a size of 20 mm 20 mm 250 mm and a core material of SUS303 having an outer diameter of 5 mm and a length of 230 mm is inserted therein. The core material and the urethane foam are adhered using a hot melt adhesive. Then the urethane foam is cut out respectively by 5 mm from the opposite ends of the core material so as to obtain an elastic roller. Grinding treatment is performed to obtain a charging member cleaning roller having an outer diameter of 9 mm. In Comparative Example I 4 urethane is not sufficiently foamed and thus the cleaning roller may not be produced.

Together with the obtained cleaning roller the charging roller and the photoreceptor as shown in Table 3 and Table 4 are installed in a modified DOCUPRINT 500 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. so as to be pressed against the peripheral surface of the charging roller. A print test of continuous 100 000 sheets is performed to evaluate the cleaning property. The charging is performed by a direct current voltage method of 800 V. Moreover the cleaning roller cleans so as to be driven to rotate together with the rotation of the charging roller.

The evaluation criterion of the cleaning property and the image quality is as follows and the judgement is performed by visual observation.

B Infinitesimal disturbance in the image quality from the initial state but at an unproblematic level at all.

The ozone resistance is evaluated as follows. Ozone deterioration resistance according to JIS K6301 ozone deterioration test the disclosure of JIS K6301 is incorporated by reference herein the sample is exposed to ozone for 200 400 600 and 800 hours and the judgement is performed by visual observation and by touch. The evaluation criterion is as follows.

The abrasion resistance is evaluated as follows. At the time of the abovementioned cleaning property evaluation the presence absence of image defects due to the abrasion powder of the cleaning roller is judged by visual observation. The evaluation criterion is as follows.

The repetitive compression fatigue resistance is evaluated as follows. At the time of completion of the abovementioned cleaning property evaluation the presence absence of image defects of the cleaning roller pitch is judged by visual observation. The evaluation criterion is as follows.

The evaluation was performed in the same manner as that of Example I 1 except that BASOTECT manufactured by BASF is used as the charging member cleaning roller shown as charging roller D in the Table .

Polyetherpolyol SANNIX FA226 manufactured by Sanyo Chemical Industries Ltd. sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate SANMORIN OT 70 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd.

Silicone type foam stabilizer SZ 1142 manufactured by Nippon Unicar Company Limited Bis 2 dimethylaminoethyl ether TOYOCAT ET manufactured by Tosoh Corporation.

As mentioned above in Examples I 1 to I 8 using the cleaning roller of embodiment A of an aspect of the present invention it is found that the charging roller is satisfactorily cleaned by the cleaning roller for a long time. As a result it is also found that satisfactory charging is performed for a long time and thus a satisfactory image is obtained.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with a charging roller roller diameter 14 mm roller length 320 mm shaft diameter 8 mm shaft length 332 mm roller including three layers of an adhesive layer an elastic layer and a resistive layer on a shaft which is the same hereinafter is installed in a modified DOCUCENTER Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

The objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate trade name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 17 a hardness of 155N and a number of cells of 45 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller same as that of Example II 1 is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 25 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 0.7 weight parts of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 1.5 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 28 a hardness of 225N and a number of cells of 55 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTER Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 35 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1.3 weight parts of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.5 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 5.2 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 8.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 115 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 35 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 1 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 65 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 3.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 3.5 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting material is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 12 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 130 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting material is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

In the following manner a cleaning roller in which an elastic layer of a polyester urethane foam having a resilience of 22 a hardness of 195N and a number of cells of 50 cells 25 mm is provided on the core material is formed.

The charging device that has been arranged so that the obtained cleaning roller is in contact with the charging roller is installed in a modified DOCUCENTRE Color a 450 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. At the same time a developer using a toner having a volume average diameter of 6.0 m and an average shape factor SF1 of 140 is installed in the developing device and a print test of 5 000 sheets is performed. The observation result of the charging roller surface state and the observation result of the printed image in the 5 000 sheet print test are shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 30 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1 weight part of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

The test is performed in the same manner as that of example II 1 except that a cleaning roller having a resilience of 10 formed in the following manner is used. The result is shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 15 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 0.5 weight parts of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

The test is performed in the same manner as that of Example II 1 except that a cleaning roller having a resilience of 45 formed in the following manner is used. The result is shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 45 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 1.5 weight parts of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2.0 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

The test is performed in the same manner as that of Example II 1 except that a cleaning roller having a hardness of 125N formed in the following manner is used. The result is shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 17 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 0.4 weight parts of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2.0 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

The test is performed in the same manner as that of Example II 1 except that a cleaning roller having a hardness of 240N formed in the following manner is used. The result is shown in Table 5.

An objective urethane foam material is prepared by mixing 100 weight parts of polyester polyol Product Name SANESTER 22 manufactured by Sanyo Kasei Co. Ltd. 45 weight parts of 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate Product Name MILIONATE MTL manufactured by Nippon Polyurethane Industries Ltd. 2 weight parts of KAOLIZER No. 31 tertiary amine catalyst manufactured by Kao Corporation 2.0 weight parts of water foaming agent and 2.0 weight parts of potassium polyoxyethylene alkylether phosphate foam stabilizer manufactured by Kao Corporation . Next an appropriate amount of the urethane foam material having such a formulation is injected into a mold having a shaft diameter of 6 mm and length of 330 mm previously arranged therein and then left at 60 C. for 5 minutes to effect foaming and curing. Then the resulting product is taken out from the mold and the roller surface is ground to form the objective cleaning roller.

As mentioned above in Examples II 1 to II 12 using the cleaning roller of embodiment B of an aspect of the present invention it is found that substances adhered on the charging member can be efficiently removed a satisfactory cleaning performance can be kept for a long time and it becomes possible to prevent image defect generation caused by contamination due to transfer residue of toner and foreign matter adhered accumulated on the charging member surface.

Moreover it is found that the cleaning property is improved by bringing the number of cells of the elastic layer and the volume average diameter and average shape factor of the toner in the cleaning roller to within predetermined ranges.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of an aspect of the present invention has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments and with the various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

