---

title: Location assistance in a paired device
abstract: Embodiments provide an apparatus, a system, a device, and a method. A method includes a method implemented in a second mobile wireless communication device. The method includes transmitting a request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. The method also includes receiving an affirmative reply to the request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. The affirmative reply originating from the first wireless communication device and generated in response to an input received from a human user of the first wireless communication device. The method further includes receiving the data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. The method may include displaying information usable in directing at least one of a person, vehicle, craft, or airplane associated with the second mobile wireless communication device to the location of the first wireless communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226103&OS=09226103&RS=09226103
owner: Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 09226103
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070911
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s .

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 897 961 entitled AUTHORIZED TRANSMISSION OF NAVIGATION ASSISTANCE naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed Aug. 31 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003 available at http www.uspto.gov web offices com sol og 2003 week11 patbene.htm. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides method implemented in a second mobile wireless communication device. The method includes receiving ongoing data indicative of a location of a first mobile wireless communications device from the first mobile wireless communications device in response to respective human user initiated authorizations exchanged between the two mobile wireless communications devices. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method implemented in a second mobile wireless communication device. The method includes transmitting a request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. The method also includes receiving an affirmative reply to the request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. The affirmative reply originating from the first wireless communication device and generated in response to an input received from a human user of the first wireless communication device. The method further includes receiving the data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. The method may include displaying information usable in directing at least one of a person vehicle craft or airplane associated with the second mobile wireless communication device to the location of the first wireless communication device. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a second mobile wireless communication device. The second mobile wireless communication device includes a navigation pairing initiation circuit operable to call for data indicative of a position of a first wireless communication device. The second mobile wireless communication device also includes a navigation pairing confirmation circuit operable to receive an indication of an authorization permitting provision of the data indicative of a position of a first wireless communication device to the second mobile wireless mobile communication device. The second mobile wireless communication device further includes a guidance circuit operable to receive the data indicative of a position of the first wireless communication device. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a second mobile wireless communication apparatus. The second mobile wireless communication apparatus includes means for transmitting a request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. The second mobile wireless communication apparatus also includes means for receiving an affirmative reply to the request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. The affirmative reply originating from the first wireless communication device and generated in response to an input received from a human user of the first wireless communication device. The second mobile wireless communication apparatus also includes means for receiving the data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. In addition to the foregoing other apparatus embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method performed in a first mobile wireless communications device. The method includes receiving a request originating from a second mobile wireless communication device for data indicative of a position of the first mobile wireless communication device. The method also includes transmitting an affirmative reply to the request in response to an input received from a human user of the first mobile wireless communication device. The method further includes facilitating a transmission of the data originating from the first wireless communication device indicative of a position of the first wireless communication device. The transmitted data being usable by the second mobile wireless communication device in determining a spatial relationship between the location of the first wireless communication device and a location of the second mobile wireless communication device. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and is coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem and or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment and or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications link between the computers may be used.

In an embodiment the first wireless communications device includes a navigation assistance offer authorization circuit an offer acceptance determining circuit and a location information circuit . In some embodiments one or more of the navigation assistance offer authorization circuit the offer acceptance determining circuit and or the location information circuit may be structurally distinct from the remaining circuits. In an embodiment the device or a portion of the device may be implemented in whole or in part using the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the device or a portion of the device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. A person may via a user interface use the device .

The first wireless communication device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a transceiver circuit . In addition the first wireless communication device may include a processor not illustrated such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the first wireless communications unit may include a computer storage media not illustrated . In an embodiment the first wireless communication device may include a mobile wireless communication device and or a positioning enabled wireless communication device .

In an embodiment the navigation assistance offer authorization circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a human initiated offer circuit a location data availability circuit and or an offer authorization to at least two mobile wireless devices circuit .

In another embodiment the offer acceptance determining circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include an acceptance response time determining circuit an acceptance response sequence determining circuit an acceptance origination determining circuit a human initiated offer acceptance determining circuit a reply determining circuit and or localized offer acceptance determining circuit .

In a further embodiment the location information circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a location parameter information circuit a static dynamic location information circuit and or a paired device location information circuit .

After a start operation the operational flow includes automatically providing data indicative of a location of a first mobile wireless communications device from the first mobile wireless communications device to a second mobile wireless communications device in response to respective human user imitated authorizations exchanged between the two mobile wireless communications devices. The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

In an alternative embodiment the automatically providing data indicative of a location of a first mobile wireless communications device includes automatically and continuously providing for a period of time data indicative of a location of a first mobile wireless communications device. The period of time may include a fixed period of time such as one hour twelve hours twenty four or some other measure of time. The period of time may include a determined time or a calculated time. For example a determined time may include a time during which the location of the first mobile wireless communication device has not significantly changed such as no significant location change for more than two hours. A calculated time may include a time when the first mobile wireless communication device and the second mobile wireless communication device have been within a 30 foot radius of each other for more than one hour. Upon the end of the period of time the providing data indicative of a location of a first mobile wireless communications device ends.

In an embodiment the automatically providing data indicative of a location of a first mobile wireless communications device may be implemented using the location information circuit of . In another embodiment the first mobile wireless communications device may be implemented using the first mobile wireless communications device . A first human user initiated authorization may be implemented by the first person user providing an authorization input to the user interface and by the navigation assistance offer authorization circuit transmitting an offer of navigation assistance via the transceiver circuit in a format and manner receivable by the second mobile wireless communications device . A second human user initiated authorization may be implemented by the second person user providing an authorization input to a user interface not shown of the second mobile wireless communications device and by the offer being transmitted by the second mobile wireless communications device in a format and manner receivable by the first wireless communications device . In an alternative embodiment the respective human user imitated authorizations exchanged between the two mobile wireless communications devices are exchanged contemporaneously. For example in an embodiment contemporaneously includes the first wireless communications device and the second mobile wireless communications device exchanging the respective human user imitated authorizations within a five minute window of time. In another embodiment contemporaneously includes the first wireless communications device and the second mobile wireless communications device exchanging the respective human user imitated authorizations within less than a one minute window of time. In a further embodiment contemporaneously includes the first wireless communications device and the second mobile wireless communications device exchanging the respective human user imitated authorizations by a physical touching of the devices together. For example the physical touching may include the second person user holding the second mobile wireless communication device in their hand and touching the second mobile wireless communication device to the first wireless communication device. In another example both the first wireless communications device and the second mobile wireless communication may be handheld by their respective users and touched together.

After a start operation the operational flow includes an assistance offer operation . The assistance offer operation includes transmitting an offer to provide data indicative of a location of the first wireless communications device to a second mobile wireless communication device. In an embodiment the first wireless communications device includes a stationary a mobile handheld and or vehicle borne first wireless communications device. In another embodiment the second mobile wireless communications device includes a handheld and or vehicle borne first wireless communications device. The assistance offer operation may be implemented using the assistance offer authorization circuit of . An authorization operation receives a communication originated by the second mobile wireless communication device accepting the offer to provide data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. The authorization operation may be implemented using the offer acceptance determining circuit of . A navigation assistance operation transmits data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. The transmitted data is useable by the second mobile wireless communication device in determining a spatial relationship between the location of the first wireless communication device and a location of the second mobile wireless communication device. The navigation assistance operation may be implemented using the location information circuit of . The operational flow then proceeds to an end operation.

The operation transmits from a first positioning enabled wireless communications device an offer to provide data indicative of a location of the first wireless communications device to a second mobile wireless communication device. In an embodiment a positioning enabled wireless communications device includes a communications device operable to at least one of know determine or receive from another source its position. For example in an embodiment a positioning enabled wireless communications device is operable to obtain its position from a global positioning satellite system. In another embodiment a positioning enabled wireless communications device is operable to obtain its position from information obtained from its host network such as a cell phone network operator. In a further embodiment a positioning enabled wireless communications device is operable to receive its position from its host network such as a cell phone network operator. The operation may be implemented using the first positioning enabled wireless communication device of .

The operation transmits an offer to provide data indicative of a location of the first wireless communications device to a second mobile wireless communication device and to a third mobile wireless communications device. The operation may be implemented using the offer authorization to at least two wireless devices circuit of .

The follow me module includes a follow me module operable to transmit in response to a received human inputted authorization an offer to provide data indicative of a location of the wireless communications device to a second mobile wireless communication device . In an embodiment the received human inputted authorization includes receiving an inputted authorization by a first person user via a user interface . The acceptance module is operable to receive a communication originated by the second mobile wireless communication device accepting the offer to provide data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. The tracking data module includes a tracking data module operable to transmit data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. The transmitted data is useable by the second mobile wireless communication device in determining a spatial relationship between the location of the first wireless communication device and a location of the second mobile wireless communication device. In an alternative embodiment the tracking data module includes a tracking data module operable to transmit data indicative of changes in location of the first wireless communication device. In an embodiment the digital storage device includes computer storage media such as the computer storage media described in conjunction with .

In an alternative embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation such as a user assistance operation . The user assistance operation displays an aspect of the determined spatial relationship between the location of the first wireless communication device and a location of the second mobile wireless communication device.

In an embodiment the second mobile wireless communications device includes a location assistance request circuit an affirmative reply determining circuit and a location data receiver circuit . In some embodiments one or more of the location assistance request circuit the affirmative reply determining circuit and a location data receiver circuit may be structurally distinct from the remaining circuits. In an embodiment the second mobile wireless communications device or a portion thereof may be implemented in whole or in part using the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the second mobile wireless communications device or a portion thereof may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. A second person may via a user interface to interact with and or use the second mobile wireless communications device.

The second mobile wireless communications device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a transceiver circuit . In addition the first wireless communication device may include a processor not illustrated such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the first wireless communications unit may include a computer storage media not illustrated . In an embodiment the second mobile wireless communications device may include a positioning enabled wireless communication device.

In an embodiment the location assistance request circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a human initiated location assistance request circuit a dynamic location assistance request circuit and or a multiple devices location assistance request circuit . In another embodiment the affirmative reply determining circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include an acceptance response time determining circuit an acceptance response sequence determining circuit an acceptance response determining circuit a multiple data recipient determining circuit and or a data reception circuit as affirmative reply determining circuit . In a further embodiment the location data receiver circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a multiple location data source receiver circuit a multiple location data type receiver a static dynamic location information receiver circuit a spatial relationship data receiver circuit a guidance data receiver circuit a time limited data receiver circuit and or a duration limited data receiver circuit .

After a start operation in a second mobile wireless communication device the operational flow receives ongoing data indicative of a location of a first mobile wireless communications device from the first mobile wireless communications device in response to respective human user initiated authorizations exchanged between the two mobile wireless communications devices. In an embodiment the continuous stream of data includes a time limited continuous stream of data. In a further embodiment the continuous stream of data includes a duration limited continuous stream of data. For example a duration limited continuous stream of data may include a continuous stream of data limited to positions of the first mobile device within a radius of a starting location such as a ten mile radius. In another example a duration limited continuous stream of data may include a continuous stream of data limited to positions of the first mobile device within one hundred miles of a starting location. The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

After a start operation in a second mobile wireless communication device the operational flow moves to a call operation . The call operation transmits a request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. In an embodiment the call operation includes a call operation transmitting a request for at least one of navigation or tracking assistance data. In another embodiment the call operation includes a call operation that transmits a request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device in response to an input received from a second human user such as the second person user of . In a further embodiment the second human user includes a human user that is at least one of physically associated with the second mobile wireless communication device carrying the second mobile wireless communication device holding the second mobile wireless communication device or riding in a vehicle bearing the second mobile wireless communication device. The call operation may be implemented using the location assistance request circuit of .

A pairing operation receives an affirmative reply to the request for data indicative of a location of a first wireless communication device. The affirmative reply originating from the first wireless communication device and generated in response to an input received from a human user of the first wireless communication device. In an embodiment the generated in response to an input received from a human user of the first wireless communication device includes generated in response to an authorization input received from a human user of the first wireless communication device. In another embodiment the first wireless communication device includes a first wireless communication device physically present in a premise. In a further embodiment the first wireless communication device includes a first wireless communication device associated with a first person user such as by the first person user carrying the first wireless communication device holding the first wireless communication device or riding in a vehicle having the first wireless communication device. The paring operation may be implemented using the affirmative reply determining circuit of .

An acquisition operation receives the data indicative of a location of the first wireless communication device. In an embodiment the data indicative of a location includes data indicative of at least one of a fixed stationary transitory moving or in motion location. The acquisition operation may be implemented using the location data receiver circuit of . The operational flow then moves an end operation.

In an alternative embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation such as an operation . The operation displays information usable in directing at least one of a person vehicle craft or airplane associated with the second mobile wireless communication device to the location of the first wireless communication device. The operation may be implemented using the display .

The navigation paring initiation circuit is operable to call for data indicative of a position of a first wireless communication device. The navigation pairing confirmation circuit is operable to receive an indication of an authorization permitting provision of the data indicative of a position of a first wireless communication device to the second mobile wireless mobile communication device. The guidance circuit is operable to receive the data indicative of a position of the first wireless communication device.

In an embodiment the navigation pairing confirmation circuit further includes a navigation pairing confirmation circuit operable to receive an indication of an authorization permitting provision of the data indicative of a position of a first wireless communication device to the second mobile wireless mobile communication device. The authorization generated in response to an input by a human user of the first wireless communication device. In another embodiment the navigation pairing confirmation circuit further includes a navigation pairing confirmation circuit operable to receive an indication of an authorization permitting provision of the data indicative of a position of a first wireless communication device to the second mobile wireless communication device for a period of time.

In an embodiment the guidance circuit further includes a guidance circuit operable to receive the data indicative of a position of the first wireless communication device and determine a spatial relationship between the position of the first wireless communication device and a position of the second mobile wireless communication device. In another embodiment the guidance circuit further includes a guidance circuit operable to receive the data indicative of a position of the first wireless communication device and generate information usable in directing at least one of a person vehicle craft or airplane associated with the second mobile wireless communication device to the position of the first wireless communication device.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems apparatus devices computer program products and or processes using block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. In an embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

