---

title: Ranking of user-generated game play advice
abstract: Management of user-generated game play advice is disclosed. The present invention allows for management of game play advice that is complete and up-to-date regardless of when a particular interactive gaming title is released. Game play advice is pervasive and easily accessible to game players in addition to being accurate and credible such that game players can trust or rely upon the rendered advice.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09126116&OS=09126116&RS=09126116
owner: SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT AMERICA LLC
number: 09126116
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070905
---
The present invention generally relates to interactive game play and more specifically to the ranking of advice rendered to aid a user with interactive game play.

Improvements in processing power and graphics quality have lead to increasingly complex interactive gaming environments. For example the PlayStation 3 s RSX graphics processor allows for freedom of graphics expression in creating next generation real time 3D imagery. Working in tandem with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc s Cell Broadband Engine Architecture RSX processor rendered graphics are unparalleled in quality and realism.

Increasingly complex gaming environments have in turn resulted in more complex story lines game play objectives missions and tasks and capabilities associated with game play avatars. As a result interactive game play has become more challenging even for experienced game players. If a game becomes too challenging however game players may forsake future game play out of frustration.

To help game players overcome obstacles or achieve goals in a variety of interactive games various content providers have begun publishing game magazines. These magazines provide game players with a walk thru that tell the reader game player where to go and what to do in order to win the game or obtain the highest possible score. Hints or suggestions with respect to special moves or avatar capabilities may also be described in these gaming magazines.

While these magazines may be informative they suffer from a number of drawbacks. If the magazine is not published by an official source e.g. an official partner of the game developer the magazine may omit essential information. In some instances an unofficial magazine may publish incorrect information. Incorrect information may also result from the tendency to rush and publish these magazines concurrently with the release of an interactive game title to allow for concurrent purchase even if the magazine is published by an official source.

Game players may also discover Easter Eggs or other secrets during the course of game play. These secrets may not be a part of even an official magazine due to the fact that some game design engineers slip in these Easter Eggs without the knowledge of the magazine publisher. Many interactive games also allow for the creation of special moves that may not have initially been conceived of by the game developer. As a result these special moves are not a part of the game play magazine official or otherwise as their development occur after the magazine and associated game has gone to market.

Once game play magazines publish subsequent editions tend not to be published. The lack of subsequent updated editions may further the information that may be withheld from game players. Unique game play situations or circumstances may not become apparent until the interactive game is played by a large number of game players. These situations and circumstances may not be addressed in the gaming magazine thereby leaving game players at a loss as to how they may properly address the same.

In contrast the internet offers the opportunity for endless publishing and republishing of information. If a particular solution is not offered in a game magazine that solution may subsequently be published on the Internet.

Notwithstanding endless publishing possibilities websites on the Internet are often decentralized and unorganized. In some instances there is no official website as game developers may wish for game players to purchase a for fee official magazine rather than access a free on line website. Additionally one website may offer one solution for one particular game play situation whereas another website may offer a solution for another situation. In order for a game player to obtain a complete walk thru of a particular interactive game the user may have to visit multiple websites on the Internet. Since these websites tend to be unofficial there is often an issue with the veracity or accuracy of the information displayed on these websites.

There is a need in the art for game play advice that is complete and up to date regardless of when a particular interactive gaming title is released. Further there is a need for game play advice that is pervasive and easily accessible to game players. There is also a need for game play advice that is accurate and credible such that game players can trust or rely upon the rendered advice.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a system and methods for managing user generated game play advice.

In one exemplary embodiment a method for managing user generated game play advice includes receiving new game play advice from a user. The new game play advice is displayed to a community of users. The new game play advice is initially displayed in a default ranking position. Display of the new game play advice occurs in conjunction with previously received game play advice. Feedback associated with the quality of the new game play advice and or the previously received game play advice is received from the community of users. The new game play advice is ranked against the previously received game play advice based on the feedback received from the community of users. The new game play advice is then redisplayed in conjunction with the previously received game play advice. The re display of the new game play advice and previously received game play device occurs in accordance with the ranking of the new game play advice and the previously received game play advice and without the default ranking initially allocated to the new game play advice.

In another exemplary embodiment a system for managing user generate game play advice is provided. The exemplary system includes a game play advice submission engine. The game play advice submission engine receives game play advice submissions over a network the submissions are allocated a ranking by a ranking engine. A game play advice display engine displays game play advice submissions in accordance with a ranking allocated by the ranking engine. A feedback engine receives feedback from a community of users with respect to the quality of the game play advice displayed by the game play advice display engine. The feedback engine and the ranking engine operate to allocate anew ranking to the game play advice in accordance with the feedback received from the community of users. The game play advice is subsequently displayed by the game play advice display engine in accordance with the new ranking.

A further exemplary embodiment provides for a method for displaying user generated game play advice. In the present exemplary method new game play advice is received from a first user that user having previously received feedback from a community of users. The new game play advice is ranked against previously received game play advice. The previously received game play advice has been submitted by at least a second user that has previously received feedback from the community of users. The new game play advice is ranked against the previously received game play advice based on the user feedback received from the community of users. The new game play advice is displayed in conjunction with the previously received game play advice. The new game play advice and the previously received game play advice are displayed in accordance with the ranking of the new game play advice and the previously received game play advice.

A still further embodiment provides for a method for managing user generated game play advice where new game play advice is received from a user. The new game play advice is displayed to a community of users. The new game play advice is initially displayed in a default ranking position. Display of the new game play advice occurs in conjunction with previously received game play advice. The user submitting the advice receives feedback from a community of users as does another user that user having previously received feedback from the community of users. Feedback associated with the quality of the new game play advice and or the previously received game play advice is also received from the community of users. A weighting value is assigned to the user feedback and the feedback associated with the quality of the game play advice. The new game play advice is ranked against the previously received game play advice based on the user feedback received from the community of users in addition to feedback associated with the quality of the game play advice. The ranking occurs in accordance with the weighting values assigned to the user feedback and feedback associated with the quality of the game play advice. The new game play advice is displayed in conjunction with the previously received game play advice and in accordance with the ranking of the new game play advice and the previously received game play advice.

The elements identified throughout are exemplary and may include various alternatives equivalents or derivations thereof. Various combinations of hardware software and computer executable instructions may be utilized. Program modules and engines may include routines programs objects components and data structures that effectuate the performance of particular tasks when executed by a processor which may be general purpose or application specific. Computer executable instructions and associated data structures stored in a computer read able storage medium represent examples of programming means for executing the steps of the methods and or implementing particular system configurations disclosed herein.

System may be implemented in a network environment such as the Internet a proprietary communications environment or a combination of the two. In one example system is an integrated component of the Playstation Network. System or components thereof may communicate with the network environment utilizing any number of network interfaces as are known in the art. Examples of such interfaces include a 1000BASE T Ethernet port or an IEEE 802.11 b g network WiFi interface.

System may be implemented in a computing device such as a server dedicated to managing user generated game play advice including maintenance of various databases. Alternatively system may be implemented in a computing device hosting a number of applications such as community maintenance admission and network game data distribution. System may be dedicated to a single network game a genre of games or any number of games having no particular affiliation at all.

System may also be implemented in a distributed peer to peer environment. In such an implementation certain applications and or responsibilities may be managed by a group of computing devices in the environment. A first computing may be represented by a game platform such as the PlayStation 3. This particular computing device may be responsible for ranking operations that take place via a ranking engine and maintaining a database of related information. A second computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer may be responsible for feedback operations that take place via a feedback engine and maintaining a database of related information.

Various engines may be distributed to a community of users e.g. players of a particular game or users in a general gaming network through a push operation from a tasked server in the game community. Alternatively various engines may be embodied in a computer readable storage medium that also includes a particular game application e.g. a disc . Distributed applications and engines may communicate directly via a group of peers or may be administered by a management server.

Game play advice submission engine is configured to allow a user to communicate with the system over network for submission of game play advice. Game play advice submission engine may generate a user interface for allowing user interaction with the system . The interface may be a simple text entry screen where users identify a game title user identity i.e. who is submitting the advice in the form of a real name or screen name and particular game play advice.

Game play advice submission engine may generate a drop down menu to allow for easy entry of information. Drop down menus may identify a variety of game titles in order to maintain consistency of game title naming . Drop down menus may also allow for identification of particular types of advice such as special moves Easter Eggs unlocking weapons or defeating particular enemies. Drop down menus may also identify particular portions of an interactive gaming environment by level or environmental description e.g. Level 1 or The Volcano . Similar identification may occur with respect to particular objects weapons or enemies.

Menus generated by the game play advice submission engine may be level based. A level based menu configuration may cause the selection of one item at a first level of a menu to branch out into a series of options concerning a second level of related menu items. Selection of an entry at the second level may spawn a third level and so on. Spawning of various levels may continue until there is no further information to be entered.

Entry of the game play advice may be textual where a user enters a written description of the game play advice e.g. at the castle gate look behind the statute for a hidden treasure . Text entry may occur through a virtual keyboard manipulated by a game controller coupled to a gaming platform. The gaming platform in turn is coupled to the system via network . Submission of game play advice may be audible and provided by speaking into a USB microphone headset. In some embodiments video clips or still frame images of game play may be submitted in the context of or as game play advice. Combinations of game play advice submissions are also within the scope of the present invention e.g. a video clip with audible narration .

Game play advice database is configured to manage user generated game play advice submitted through an interface generated by the game play advice submission engine . Game play advice database may manage submitted game play advice by user game title nature of the advice date size content of the advice e.g. video audio text combinations of content and so forth. Game play advice database may include non user generated game play advice e.g. pre stocked game play advice from the game publisher that may also be ranked and displayed by system .

Game play advice database may be configured to store all game play advice received through an interface generated by game play advice submission engine . Alternatively certain game play advice may expire over time or upon the occurrence of certain events. For example the game play advice database may only retain the top 100 ranked game play advice submissions. Once a particular instance of game play advice falls below a top 100 threshold that particular instance may be deleted from the game play advice database . Expiration may be temporal such that instances of game play advice that are not accessed for a particular period of time are removed from the game play advice database . Instances of game play advice may also be removed from the game play advice database a predetermined number of days after having been submitted to the system .

Ranking engine is configured to manage the ranking of game play advice stored in game play advice database . When new game play advice is received the ranking engine of will assign a default ranking to that new instance of game play advice. This default ranking and any other ranking including those generated as a result of user feedback may be measured utilizing any rubric capable of distinguishing one instance of user generated game play advice from another. Rankings may be numeric e.g. 1 2 3 . . . 101 102 etc. or characteristic e.g. poor good very good excellent etc. . Simplistic rankings may also be used such as a binary indication of good bad or thumbs up thumbs down . A percentage value may also be used by ranking engine . For example an 86 ranking may reflect that 86 percent of all user feedback received with respect to a particular instance of game play designated the advice as good or better. 

Tie breakers may be utilized by the ranking engine with respect to multiple instances of game play advice that are allocated rankings of equal value. Equally ranked game play advice may be distinguished by an alphabetical ordering of the screen name or real name of the user submitting the game play advice. Equally ranked game play advice may also be displayed based on the time the game play advice was submitted. Previously received and equally ranked game play advice may be moved to the bottom of a ranking ladder versus more recently received and equally ranked game play advice. Equally ranked game play advice may also be displayed in a random order albeit in the context of other equally ranked advice.

Ranking engine may operate in conjunction with ranking database to maintain a record of a current or prior ranking of any particular instance of game play advice. Ranking engine may also work in conjunction feedback engine feedback database and in some embodiments optional weighting engine to more accurately identify the perceived quality of game play advice as adjudicated by a community of users.

Game play advice display engine is configured to display user generated game play advice in accordance with a ranking result generated by ranking engine . Game play advice display engine acquires information from the game play advice database the advice and the ranking database the ranking of the game play advice as determined by ranking engine and displays the game play advice in accordance with an allocated ranking. The game play advice display engine may utilize an asynchronous programming language to provide real time or substantially near real time updates to ranked game play advice for display to a community of users.

Game play advice display engine may utilize a ladder ranking of game play advice. In such an embodiment the highest quality advice is presented at the top of a ladder and the worst advice is relegated to the bottom of the ladder. The quality of the advice decreases as a user moves from the top of the ladder to the bottom. In some embodiments the particular arrangement of the advice may be subject to user or system preferences e.g. the advice may be listed in an inverse order where the best advice is listed at the bottom of the ladder and the worst advice at the top . illustrates an exemplary ladder ranking of user generated game play advice .

In the ladder ranking includes six exemplary instances of user generated game play advice . Each instance of game play advice identifies a title of the interactive game for which the advice is rendered i.e. SOCOM 3 the nature of the advice i.e. pertaining to unlockable weapons and the particular unlockable weapon at issue e.g. an IW 80 A2 an STG 77 a medium scope and a front grip . Each instance also includes the advice itself e.g. Complete the Poland Theater of Operations in the case of instance .

The information displayed in each instance of game play advice e.g. game title nature of the advice etc. and the format of the same e.g. text entries versus graphical illustrations may vary depending on a particular embodiment of system and game play advice display engine . Additional information may also be displayed in each instance of game play advice. For example an embodiment of ladder ranking may include the screen name of the user submitting particular information the date the advice was submitted a visible indication of the ranking of the instance of game play information e.g. 1 of 6 86 approval thumbs up or the number of times feedback has been rendered with respect to that particular instance of game play advice. An indication that a particular ranking is the result of a default ranking may also be displayed.

In the best quality game play advice is displayed at or near the top of the ladder ranking . With respect to this particular game title the IW 80 A2 may represent a particularly desirable weapon. Information regarding acquisition of this weapon may therefore be highly valued i.e. to obtain this weapon Complete the Poland Theater of Operations as reflected by advice of instance .

In another instance of game play advice the weapon is the same as that discussed in the most highly ranked instance i.e. the aforementioned IW 80 A2 but the advice is of such poor quality that the advice is located at the lower most rung of the ladder ranking . With respect to game play advice instance the user submitting the advice has just begun playing this particular game title and does not know what an IW 80 A2 is or how to acquire the same. As such this unhelpful instance of game play advice is appropriately ranked and subsequently displayed at the bottom of the ladder ranking . As a result of this ranking a user searching for information concerning the acquisition of an IW 80 A2 saves time by avoiding review of unhelpful information. Further the user searching for advice on acquiring the IW 80 A2 is more likely to receive complete and accurate advice.

Game play advice display engine may display advice in the context of a real world virtual environment and or a first or third person avatar. In such an embodiment an avatar may move about a virtual environment like that offered by Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. s Home. Home is a three dimensional online user community service that may be accessed utilizing the PlayStation 3 entertainment system.

The Home virtual environment offers a Hall of Fame two examples of which are illustrated in and and that could be used in conjunction with the display of user generated game play advice. For example display area could be used to display a ladder ranking like that discussed in the context of . Virtual objects associated with a reward or particular achievement may also be displayed such as a trophy. Game play advice may be displayed in the context of particular game titles or users.

In a virtual environment like that shown in and game play advice display engine may be integrated with the host of the virtual environment. Game play advice display engine may also access the virtual environment through an application programming interface API native to the environment.

Other means of display of game play advice beyond the aforementioned ladder and virtual environment are within the scope of the present invention. Game play advice may be listed as a series of entries in a chat string. Game play advice may be displayed and detailed commentary in addition to ranking feedback concerning the quality of that advice may be provided by the community of users. Game play advice may also be provided through a series of hyperlinks. Graphic images may also be utilized especially in the context of game play advice that incorporates full motion video or still images. Links to audio files may be appropriate in the ease of audio rendered advice. All of the aforementioned means of providing game play advice to a community of users and in accordance with an assigned default or feedback controlled ranking may be managed by the game play advice display engine .

Feedback engine is configured to accept feedback from other game players following their viewing and subsequent use of game play advice provided via the game play advice display engine . Feedback engine may be integrated or work in conjunction with game play advice display engine with respect to receiving feedback. For example feedback engine may generate a prompt for receiving user generated feedback. The prompt may be displayed in the immediate context of particular instances of game play advice which are displayed by game play advice display engine .

User feedback may be any subjective assessment capable of distinguishing one instance of user generated game play advice from another. User feedback may be numeric e.g. 1 to 10 with 10 being high quality and 1 being low or characteristic e.g. good very good excellent etc. . Simplistic binary indications of good or bad or a thumbs up or thumbs down may also be used. Feedback may include a textual or spoken assessment of the user generated game play advice. Feedback may be entered manually e.g. entry of a 10 through a virtual keyboard selected from drop down menus or submitted via graphic representations such as on screen icons e.g. selecting a thumbs up .

Feedback engine may also be configured to request and accept a grade for a particular user from a community of users the user having submitting game play advice to the system . The user grade may be a subjective assessment of a particular user registered with system . Other users in a community may grade a particular user based on their knowledge of the graded user s in game exploits in a manner similar to providing feedback with respect to game play advice.

User grades may also be assessed automatically by the ranking engine or an independent user grade engine not shown . A grade for a particular user may be allocated with respect to the time that a user has been registered with the system or played a particular game title thus suggesting experience . Grades may also be assessed based on the number of tasks that a user has completed in a particular game or the number of levels that the user has conquered. User grades may be particular to game geographic region or the entirety of the gaming network. The game community may also be defined by various tiers of experience e.g. beginners intermediate users and experts . User grades may also be allocated within the delineation of a particular tier to which a graded user belongs.

Feedback database is configured to manage user feedback to game play advice submitted through feedback engine . Feedback database may be configured to store all community generated feedback as it pertains to game play advice. Certain feedback may expire over time e.g. a predetermined number of days after having been submitted to the system . Feedback database may track the nature of the feedback e.g. a subjective assessment with respect to a particular instance of game play advice. Feedback database may further track the identity of the user submitting user feedback via the feedback engine .

Ranking database is configured to manage ranking of user generated game play advice as ranked by the ranking engine . Ranking database may also store user grade information generated by the ranking engine . Ranking database may be updated in real time or substantially in real time in order to provide game play advice display engine with the most up to date and available ranking information as it pertains to particular instances of game play advice. Ranking information stored in the ranking database may expire after a set period of time. Lower ranked game play advice e.g. advice falling below a certain minimum ranking may be removed from the ranking database while higher ranked information is maintained in the ranking database .

Optional weighting engine may be used for ranking user generated game play advice based on the quality of the advice and the reputation or experience of the user submitting the advice. Optional weighting engine is configured to introduce a weighting algorithm that allocates a particular value to the grade of a user submitting game play advice and another value to the actual game play advice. For example if the user is regarded by the game community i.e. the user has a higher user grade but the game play advice submitted by the player is of low quality as reflected by user feedback the optional weighting engine may apply a first weighting value to the user grade e.g. 75 and a second weighting value to the game play advice e.g. 25 to formulate in conjunction with the ranking engine a ranking of the game play advice. The game play advice is then displayed through the game play advice display engine whereby the first and second weighting values allocated by the optional weighting engine proportionally affect the ranking of the game play advice. The actual weighting valuations applied to the user grade and the game play advice may be set and adjusted by an administrator of the system .

In step user generated game play advice is received from a user in the community via an interface generated by the game play advice submission engine . Upon receipt of the user generated game play advice in step the advice is processed by the system as described in the context of and assigned a default ranking by ranking engine . The game play advice may be stored in game play advice database . The default ranking may be stored in ranking database .

The processed and default ranked game play advice is subsequently displayed via the game play advice display engine in step . Upon display in step the user generated game play advice is available for viewing by other members of the gaming community. The members of the community may then act upon that advice during the course of game play.

The newly received and default ranked game play advice is also displayed in conjunction with previously received game play advice which is also stored in game play advice database . The previously received game play advice may have been previously displayed and ranked or may be displayed for the first time with a default ranking i.e. multiple instances of game play advice are being displayed for the first time . The newly received game play advice may also be displayed with pre packaged game play advice from the game publisher.

A user acting upon any displayed game play advice may return to the system and provide feedback as to the quality of that particular game play advice in step . The feedback may be provided via a prompt generated by feedback engine . The nature of the feedback may be like that described in the context of with respect to feedback engine e.g. a number of stars or thumbs up or thumbs down . Advice that resulted in better game play may receive a higher ranking than advice that resulted in lesser game play. The presentation of the game play advice may also affect the ranking. For example if the advice was presented in such a way as to make the advice confusing notwithstanding the validity of the advice the particular instance may receive a lesser ranking.

After having received feedback in step the ranking engine of system will rank the new game play advice against previously received and possibly ranked game play advice in step . Ranking of the new game play advice with respect to the previously received and perhaps ranked game play advice will take into account the feedback received by the feedback engine and stored in feedback database . After having received an initial indication of quality based on user feedback game play advice will lose its default ranking and move up or down a ladder of all available game play advice based on its valuation against other game play advice.

Following the ranking operation of step the results of which may be stored in ranking database the new game play advice and previously received game play advice will be redisplayed by the game play advice display engine in step . The re display of the game play advice will reflect any received user feedback from step and the subsequent ranking operation of step . Based on the ranking operation of step quality game play advice will rise to the top of a list of game play advice or be communicated to the community of users such that they know the advice that has received high approval from the community versus game play advice perceived to have little or no value.

The method of may operate in real time or substantially in real time using an asynchronous programming language such as Ajax. In an asynchronous language like Ajax small amounts of data are continually exchanged with a database so that an entire user interface need not be reloaded in response to each user interaction. In such an embodiment an XMLHttpRequest object may be utilized to fetch the most recent game play advice rankings from the ranking database of . This ranking information and the corresponding game play advice retrieved from game play advice database may then be displayed via an interface generated by the game play advice display engine . Relationships between rankings user feedback and game play advice may be reflected by metadata or header data stored in the various databases of system . Game play advice rankings may thus be updated as feedback is received and new rankings are calculated.

The method of may also operate subject to a predetermined schedule. For example the ranking engine may update the ranking database at five minute intervals or any other time period as may be determined by a system administrator . Once the ranking database is updated as a result of a regularly scheduled ranking operation the newly updated ranking information may be pushed to the game play advice display engine for display to the community of users in conjunction with the game play advice retrieved from game play advice database . The updated ranking information in the ranking database may also be available for access in response to a user request or query. A user request for ranking information may instantiate the ranking operation and the subsequent display of ranked game play advice.

In step user generated game play advice is received at the system from a user in a game community. Receipt of game play advice may occur through a user Interface generated by the game play advice submission engine . The submitting user may be identified as part of the submission process. Identification may occur through manual entry of a screen name. Identification may also occur via a user profile accessed when the user logged into the gaming community.

Automated grading of the submitting user by the ranking engine takes place in step such that a determination as to the authority of the provided game play advice may be made. For example if a user is playing a particular game for the first time any advice proffered by that player is likely of little value due to that player s general inexperience with the game. If a user is experienced with respect to that game however then any advice provided by that user may be of greater value due to their vast experience with game play. Experience may be derived from game play statistics or other data which may be associated with a user profile.

Alternatively the submitting user may be graded based on their actual performance in a particular game. A particular user may play a game numerous times but lack any exceptional ability with respect to that particular game. In these instances grading the user based on the number of times that they have played the game may be misleading. Grading the user based on performance in the game may be more indicative of the quality of the advice the user might offer.

User performance may be based on any variety of factors. For example a user may be graded based on a score achieved a level reached or a length of the user existed in a particular game environment without being killed. Performance may also be based on objectives completed items obtained weapons mastered enemies killed and so forth.

Once the user is graded in step the ranking engine will rank new game play advice against previously received and perhaps ranked game play advice in step . After having received an initial indication of quality based on grading of the user game play advice will be ranked and that ranking information will be stored in ranking database while the game play advice is stored in game play advice database .

Following the ranking operation of step the new game play advice and previously received game play advice will be displayed in step by the game play advice display engine . The display of the game play advice will reflect the grading of the user with respect to the game play advice as occurred in steps and the subsequent ranking operation of step . Based on the ranking operation of step quality game play advice will rise to the top of a list of game play advice or be communicated to the community of users such that they know the advice was offered by a game player of exceptional ability versus having come from a user with little to no experience or ability.

The method of may operate in real time or substantially in real time. Like the method of such real time functionality may be effectuated using an asynchronous programming language whereby the most recent game play advice rankings vis vis a user grade are retrieved from the ranking database and displayed via the game play advice display engine . In this matter game play advice rankings are updated as user grading is calculated.

Like the method of the method of may also operate subject to a predetermined schedule whereby the ranking engine updates the ranking database at regular intervals. Once the ranking database is updated as a result of a regularly scheduled ranking operation the newly updated ranking information may be pushed to the game play advice display engine for display to the community of users in conjunction with the game play advice retrieved from game play advice database . Alternatively the updated information in the ranking database may available for access in response to a user request or query. A user request for ranking information may instantiate the ranking operation and the subsequent display of ranked game play advice.

User grading may also be in response to feedback received from the gaming community. In such an embodiment user grading step will involve feedback engine calculating a community valuation of a particular user based on information retrieved from the feedback database and prior ranking information retrieved from the ranking database . Steps and of the method of will proceed as described above with the exception that the ranking of game play advice is now based on user feedback rather than an automated determination made solely by ranking engine .

In a still further embodiment the user grade may involve a weighting algorithm imposed by optional weighting engine . In such an embodiment community feedback may be assigned a first weighting value by the weighting algorithm of optional weighting engine . The automated ranking generated by the ranking engine may be allocated a second weighting value. These weighted values may proportionally affect a final ranking also calculated by the ranking engine that is ultimately stored in the ranking database for retrieval by the game play advice display engine .

In step user generated game play advice is received at the system from a user in a game community. Upon receipt of the user generated game play advice in step the advice is processed by the system and assigned a default ranking. Game play advice may be initially received through an interface generated by the game play submission engine and stored in the game play advice database . Allocation of a default ranking may be allocated by ranking engine .

The processed and default ranked game play advice is subsequently displayed by the game play advice display engine in step . The game play advice display engine retrieves the default ranking information from ranking database and the game play advice from the game play advice database . Upon display in step the user generated game play advice is available for viewing by other members of the gaming community who may then act upon that advice during the course of game play.

The newly received and default ranked game play advice may also be displayed in conjunction with previously received game play advice. The previously received game play advice may have been previously displayed and ranked or may be displayed for the first time with a default ranking. Display may take place concurrent with pre packaged game play advice from the game developer which may also be ranked.

In step the submitting user is graded. Grading of the submitting user takes place such that a determination as to the authority of the game play advice provided may be made as was the case in . As was the case in a user may be graded based on experience playing a particular game or performance with respect to a particular game. Grading may also be based on community feedback.

In step feedback as to the quality of particular game play advice may be provided by users in the community via feedback engine . Advice that results in better game play may receive better feedback than advice that resulted in lesser game play or that was perhaps presented in such as way as to make the advice confusing and otherwise ineffective. Feedback may be stored in feedback database .

In step the grading of the user as occurred in step and the feedback provided with respect to particular game play advice as occurred in step may be weighted. Weighting of the user grade and advice feedback may occur through optional weighting engine . As noted in the context of the ratio of importance of the user grade versus the user feedback may be allocated as to best overall evaluate the advice provided by the user.

Following weighting of the user grade and the user feedback in step the ranking engine will rank the new game play advice against previously received game play advice in step . After having received an initial indication of quality based on user feedback and the user grade game play advice will lose its default ranking and move up or down a ladder of ail available game play advice based on its valuation against other advice as a whole.

Following the ranking operation of step the new game play advice and previously received game play advice will be redisplayed in step by game play advice display engine . The re display of the game play advice will reflect the results of the ranking operation of step which may be retrieved from ranking database in conjunction with the actual game play advice from game play advice database . Based on the ranking operation of step qualify game play advice from knowledgeable game players will rise to the top of a list of game play advice or be communicated to the community of users such that they know the advice that has received a combination of high approval from the community and was offered by an otherwise experienced or well qualified game player.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. For example the aforementioned system and methods discussed therein e.g. may be utilized to receive submissions rank display accept feedback and re rank and re display various forms of information other than game play advice. For example the present system and methods may be employed in the context of search engine results or queries for on line audio and video content. The aforementioned system and methods may also be used with respect to reverse auctions and bidding based on valuation feedback of a seller vendor and or product.

In addition modifications may be made without departing from the essential teachings of the present invention. Various alternative systems may be utilized to implement the various methodologies described herein and various methods may be used to achieve certain results from the aforementioned systems.

