---

title: TDMA communications system with configuration beacon and associated method
abstract: A communications system includes a plurality of nodes forming a time division multiple access (TDMA) communications network. Each node within the TDMA communications network includes a controller and wireless communications device allowing the nodes to communicate with each other using respective timeslots in a TDMA frame, also sometimes referred to as an epoch. Each node is operative for transmitting and receiving a beacon positioned in time at the front of a frame to carry configuration information about the nodes in the TDMA communications network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08885630&OS=08885630&RS=08885630
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 08885630
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070614
---
The present invention relates to communications systems and more particularly to time division multiple access TDMA communications systems and related methods.

TDMA communications systems such as used in mobile ad hoc networks MANET s are becoming increasingly popular. When TDMA is used with a MANET the network operates as self configuring networks of mobile routers or associated hosts connected by wireless links to form an arbitrary topology. The routers such as wireless mobile units can move randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily as nodes in a network similar to a packet radio network. The individual units require minimum configuration and their quick deployment can make ad hoc networks suitable for emergency situations. For example many MANET s are designed for military systems such as the JTRS Joint Tactical Radio System and other similar peer to peer or independent Basic Service Set Systems IBSS .

A mobile ad hoc network with no fixed infrastructure has also posed many challenges to the media access control MAC layer for multiple users. In a TDMA based ad hoc network it is sometimes difficult to assign non interfering time slots to nodes and still allow spatial reuse of the bandwidth and time slots. Different nodes that are separated far enough would be able to reuse the bandwidth by using the same time slot.

A Carrier Sense Multiple Access CSMA based MAC design for an ad hoc network is sometimes suitable for data transmission between mobile nodes. For example 802.11 standards do not support voice or multimedia traffic with a desired quality of service because the transmission is contention based and asynchronous. The sharing of a radio resource often becomes unpredictable. To support voice and video streams the system often requires bandwidth to be reserved. This could be accomplished in some TDMA based schemes by using non interfering time slots for example channel scheduling.

A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based system is bandwidth efficient in traditional cellular networks but it relies on adequate power control maintained by the base station for eliminating the near far effect. In a mobile ad hoc network environments however CDMA technology has encountered some difficulties.

The TDMA communications systems are more preferred and use a channel access system for shared radio networks. The signal is divided into different timeslots allowing users to share the same frequency channel. Users can transmit one after the other using their own timeslot within a frame or epoch . Thus multiple stations can share the same transmission medium or radio frequency channel and use only part of the bandwidth. A data stream in this type of system is divided into a frame or epoch which is divided into timeslots. Each user is allocated one timeslot which could contain data and a guard period for synchronization.

There are issues as noted before with the network size and the media access control MAC configuration. The TDMA frame epoch and slot format are hard to configure to a fixed format while serving the purpose for networks having different sizes. In a TDMA communications system a matching network size configuration is required to enable successful communications between users corresponding to the network nodes. In some TDMA systems a waveform for example an advanced networking wideband TDMA waveform ANW2 is used with different radios having an extended range and operating in accordance with the Software Communications Architecture SCA .

It may be desirable to support many different network sizes for example a 2 node network for high capacity a 10 node network for a high and low bandwidth mesh network or a 48 node network for a high and low bandwidth network as non limiting examples. Depending on the number of nodes the epoch frame is divided into specific timeslots. For example with two nodes the epoch frame may be divided into two timeslots. With four nodes the epoch may be divided into four timeslots and with eight nodes there are a corresponding eight timeslots. Problems can develop when one radio or other communications device attempts to enter a network and its communication with a different network configuration. For example a node that tries to enter one network having four nodes and four timeslots but is configured for only two nodes would not be able to communicate with the nodes configured for a 4 node network. Current techniques to solve this problem allow the system to configure manually all nodes to the same network size which can be time consuming or use some other communication system to confirm a configuration. This can be inefficient.

A communications system includes a plurality of nodes forming a time division multiple access TDMA communications network. Each node within the TDMA communications network includes a controller and wireless communications device allowing the nodes to communicate with each other using respective timeslots in a TDMA frame also sometimes referred to as an epoch. Each node is operative for transmitting and receiving a beacon positioned in time at the front of a frame to carry configuration information about the nodes in the TDMA communications network.

The beacon can be formed as text message a short message service SMS message or similar structure. The beacon can have a duration of about 1 ms or less as a non limiting example. Other time periods could be used.

In other aspects a node external to the TDMA communications network can transmit a beacon for probing the TDMA communications network for configuration information. This information could be used for a merger or to determine the configuration of the TDMA communications network. The configuration information could also be indicative of the number of nodes within the TDMA communications network or the length of a timeslot used by the nodes.

In yet another aspect a second TDMA communications network could have a plurality of nodes. At least one node in the TDMA communications network is operative for transmitting a beacon as a probe to determine configuration information for merging TDMA communication networks. The TDMA communications network could be formed as a mobile ad hoc network MANET .

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention the TDMA communications system uses a small beacon at the beginning of an epoch frame to obtain knowledge about the network environment and permit synchronization. The use of this beacon allows the connection of different network size configurations in one waveform family. This common and short beacon for different TDMA network configurations can solve numerous problems. For example the beacon would take a very short burst period and not waste much bandwidth i.e. about 1 ms in a non limiting example. It can provide a corrective measure on the network configuration or mis configuration and provide interrupt capability for a change of network configuration or for a future change. The TDMA waveform becomes a waveform that is communicable across all different network size configurations and can be used for a future dynamic network size adaptation. It can provide an automatic confirmation on network configuration and easy deployment and root out configuration conflicts such as may occur with unplanned group merging. It also can use a Short Message Service SMS for control and network planning and management instead of using voice which may not be ready before the network is established.

In different embodiments the beacon can be a short TDMA burst in front of the frame or epoch for example an SMS message. It is possible that it could be completed to one time slot. The beacon can contain control information or control messages. It could also be applied in a generic timeslot in some non limiting examples.

It should be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the approach to be described is not limited for use with any particular communication standard wireless or otherwise and can be adapted for use with numerous wireless or wired communications standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS extended data rate Bluetooth Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Wireless LAN WLAN Ultra Wideband UWB coaxial cable radar optical etc. Further the invention is not limited for use with a specific PHY or radio type but is applicable to other compatible technologies as well.

Throughout this description the term communications device is defined as any apparatus or mechanism adapted to transmit receive or transmit and receive data through a medium. The communications device may be adapted to communicate over any suitable medium such as RF wireless infrared optical wired microwave etc. In the case of wireless communications the communications device may comprise an RF transmitter RF receiver RF transceiver or any combination thereof. Wireless communication involves radio frequency communication microwave communication for example long range line of sight via highly directional antennas or short range communication and or infrared IR short range communication. Applications may involve point to point communication point to multipoint communication broadcasting cellular networks and other wireless networks.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art a method data processing system or computer program product can embody different examples in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention. Accordingly these portions may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore portions may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

The description as presented below can apply with reference to flowchart illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

For purposes of description some background information on coding interleaving and an exemplary wireless mobile radio communications system that includes ad hoc capability and can be modified for use is set forth. This example of a communications system that can be used and modified for use with the present invention is now set forth with regard to followed by a description of a and beacon system in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention.

An example of a radio that could be used with such system and method is a Falcon III radio manufactured and sold by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This type of radio can support multiple wavebands form 30 MHz up to 2 GHz including L band SATCOM and MANET. The waveforms can provide secure IP data networking. It should be understood that different radios can be used including software defined radios that can be typically implemented with relatively standard processor and hardware components. One particular class of software radio is the Joint Tactical Radio JTR which includes relatively standard radio and processing hardware along with any appropriate waveform software modules to implement the communication waveforms a radio will use. JTR radios also use operating system software that conforms with the software communications architecture SCA specification see www.jtrs.saalt.mil which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The SCA is an open architecture framework that specifies how hardware and software components are to interoperate so that different manufacturers and developers can readily integrate the respective components into a single device.

The Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS Software Component Architecture SCA defines a set of interfaces and protocols often based on the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA for implementing a Software Defined Radio SDR . In part JTRS and its SCA are used with a family of software re programmable radios. As such the SCA is a specific set of rules methods and design criteria for implementing software re programmable digital radios.

The JTRS SCA specification is published by the JTRS Joint Program Office JPO . The JTRS SCA has been structured to provide for portability of applications software between different JTRS SCA implementations leverage commercial standards to reduce development cost reduce development time of new waveforms through the ability to reuse design modules and build on evolving commercial frameworks and architectures.

The JTRS SCA is not a system specification as it is intended to be implementation independent but a set of rules that constrain the design of systems to achieve desired JTRS objectives. The software framework of the JTRS SCA defines the Operating Environment OE and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE comprises a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The JTRS SCA also provides a building block structure defined in the API Supplement for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The JTRS SCA Core Framework CF is an architectural concept defining the essential core set of open software Interfaces and Profiles that provide for the deployment management interconnection and intercommunication of software application components in embedded distributed computing communication systems. Interfaces may be defined in the JTRS SCA Specification. However developers may implement some of them some may be implemented by non core applications i.e. waveforms etc. and some may be implemented by hardware device providers.

For purposes of description only a brief description of an example of a communications system that could incorporate the TDMA beacon in accordance with a non limiting example is described relative to a non limiting example shown in . This high level block diagram of a communications system includes a base station segment and wireless message terminals that could be modified for use with the present invention. The base station segment includes a VHF radio and HF radio that communicate and transmit voice or data over a wireless link to a VHF net or HF net each which include a number of respective VHF radios and HF radios and personal computer workstations connected to the radios . Ad hoc communication networks are interoperative with the various components as illustrated. The entire network can be ad hoc and include source destination and neighboring mobile nodes. Thus it should be understood that the HF or VHF networks include HF and VHF net segments that are infrastructure less and operative as the ad hoc communications network. Although UHF radios and net segments are not illustrated these could be included.

The radio can include a demodulator circuit and appropriate convolutional encoder circuit block interleaver data randomizer circuit data and framing circuit modulation circuit matched filter circuit block or symbol equalizer circuit with an appropriate clamping device deinterleaver and decoder circuit modem and power adaptation circuit as non limiting examples. A vocoder circuit can incorporate the decode and encode functions and a conversion unit could be a combination of the various circuits as described or a separate circuit. A clock circuit can establish the physical clock time and through second order calculations as described below a virtual clock time. The network can have an overall network clock time. These and other circuits operate to perform any functions necessary for the present invention as well as other functions suggested by those skilled in the art. Other illustrated radios including all VHF or UHF mobile radios and transmitting and receiving stations can have similar functional circuits. Radios could range from 30 MHz to about 2 GHz as non limiting examples.

The base station segment includes a landline connection to a public switched telephone network PSTN which connects to a PABX . A satellite interface such as a satellite ground station connects to the PABX which connects to processors forming wireless gateways . These interconnect to the VHF radio or HF radio respectively. The processors are connected through a local area network to the PABX and e mail clients . The radios include appropriate signal generators and modulators.

An Ethernet TCP IP local area network could operate as a radio mail server. E mail messages could be sent over radio links and local air networks using STANAG 5066 as second generation protocols waveforms the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and of course preferably with the third generation interoperability standard STANAG 4538 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An interoperability standard FED STD 1052 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety could be used with legacy wireless devices. Examples of equipment that can be used in the present invention include different wireless gateway and radios manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This equipment could include RF5800 5022 7210 5710 5285 and PRC 117 and 138 series equipment and devices as non limiting examples.

These systems can be operable with RF 5710A high frequency HF modems and with the NATO standard known as STANAG 4539 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety which provides for transmission of long distance radio at rates up to 9 600 bps. In addition to modem technology those systems can use wireless email products that use a suite of data link protocols designed and perfected for stressed tactical channels such as the STANAG 4538 or STANAG 5066 the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. It is also possible to use a fixed non adaptive data rate as high as 19 200 bps with a radio set to ISB mode and an HF modem set to a fixed data rate. It is possible to use code combining techniques and ARQ.

There now follows a general description of MANET TDMA processes as commonly used followed by a description of the system using the TDMA beacon.

There are many different routing protocols and methods used to solve different aspects of the network issues. A background of the technology is given followed by a description of the TDMA beacon in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention.

A Mobile Ad hoc Network MANET can be described as an autonomous system of mobile nodes. The network is typically self organizing without the assistance from any centralized administration. Because there are no fixed and centralized base stations to maintain routes the routing capability is typically distributed to the individual mobile nodes. Each node is usually capable of discovering routes to a destination and each node may also act as an intermediate node i.e. a repeater for forwarding the data packets in a multiple hop connection. The network topology may change with time as the nodes move enter or leave the network. Therefore dynamic routing capabilities and route maintenance mechanisms are usually incorporated into the nodes.

There have been many different ad hoc network protocols which are usually divided into two different approaches i.e. 1 proactive and 2 reactive. Proactive protocols such as OLSR CGSR DBF and DSDV periodically send and exchange routing messages in the entire network to catch up with the latest changes in the topology. Reactive protocols such as ASR DSR AODV CHAMP DYMO and TORA however search for a route on demand. A route discovery or route request message is typically flooded into the network upon request. As the request message comes to the destination node a route reply message carrying the whole path from the source to the destination is transmitted back to the source node.

Some protocols combine the two approaches but in any event the goal of the ad hoc routing protocol is to find the current path defined as a sequence of intermediate nodes from the source node to a destination node. Due to the changing topology and channel conditions however the routes may have changed over time. Therefore a route entry in the routing table may not be updated when it is about to be used. The routes must be maintained either on demand or on a regular basis.

Routes can be maintained in two different levels. A first level is more concerned with the maintenance of the routing table which is refreshed either on a regular basis or on demand. A second level is the maintenance of an actively used route path which may have become unstable and unusable due to the node movement blocking by objects terrain conditions and other link impairments. The source node should be notified of the path errors and another candidate route chosen or a new route discovery issued.

For table driven routing protocols once a broken route is detected it may take some time for the protocol to react and resolve and find a new route. Most link state based ad hoc network protocols require a convergence of routes in the route table. For example in Optimized Link State Routing OLSR protocol a local route change would have to be broadcast to all other nodes in the network such that in the route table the topology view is consistent. If the route table is not consistent data packets may not be routed correctly. The data packets are forwarded from hop to hop originating from the source node towards the destination node. Due to the node movement some of the intermediate nodes may have already moved out of the range of each other therefore breaking the path of delivery. Packets sometimes are dropped and the broken path condition should be detected as soon as possible to form alternative paths.

For reactive ad hoc network protocols the route is typically discovered on demand. The nodes in the network keep track of the changes of the topology but only for the part on which they send traffic. Before data is sent the destination path is discovered by sending a route request. It takes some time for the route request to travel to the destination node which returns the path back to the source node. Explicit route path information can be added to the packet header such that intermediate nodes can forward the packet.

A data path can also be set up in advance. A source node transmits a path label along a newly discovered route to the destination node. The intermediate nodes remember the path label. Subsequently the data packets having a known label are forwarded correctly. Again if the data packet cannot be forwarded correctly along the path the source node is notified of the path error. The source node may issue a new route discovery.

Some protocol provides local repair to a broken route. A repairing node may issue a locally bounded limited path search downstream of the path. Due to the scope of a limited search the response time is expected to be faster. If it is successful then the packets may flow through the detour route. The repairing node would send a notification to the source node about the change to the path. Local repair shortens this reaction time to fixing the path failure. The mechanism however is not instantaneous.

A data packet can typically be forwarded from the source node to the destination node by two major methods. The forwarding decision can be made by the source node such that explicit route information is attached to the packet header. In the second method the forwarding decision is made by intermediate nodes. If the node has a view of the network topology the packet may be forwarded based on the routing table. If the node has a label path established for labeled packets the forwarding decision can be based on the label of the packet. If the node has no knowledge of the network and no established data path the packet can be flooded to all neighbors.

In a unidirectional link however the sender node may not know if the receiver node actually received the packet. The sender node may have an excessive number of packets in its transmission queue. The packet to be delivered may be removed as if the packet is expired. The receiver node and the sender node may have moved apart further than the transmission range so that the packet can never by delivered via this specific link. The packets could be corrupted by signal fading or interference. ARQ Automatic Repeat request may be used to ensure a transmission success and a detection of a broken link. A significant delay may be incurred however waiting for an ACK and retransmission. Fault tolerance can be provided using multiple paths to deliver the same set of packets. More data packets can be delivered with less delay but some trade off is the radio resource utilization that is significantly reduced.

In ad hoc networks nodes are equipped with limited radio resources and data bandwidth. Data packets are typically classified according to the application requirement. Some applications require the data to be delivered in a time critical manner while other applications require the data to be delivered in a robust manner. It is important to deliver different kinds of data packets differently and effectively according to the demands imposed by the system. For example dropping a few voice samples is not as important as dropping a file data packet. Usually a file data packet is less time critical but it must be reliably delivered.

Due to the issues of data delivery and Quality of Service QOS requirements packets may be duplicated in multiple communication paths so that the same packet has a higher chance of reaching its destination in time. In many multi path routing protocols the source node maintains a set of multiple communication paths as alternate routes in its route table. It should be understood that multi path routes can be discovered in a similar fashion as a general route discovery.

Most of the generic route discovery mechanisms result in multiple paths without extra efforts. It is up to the source node to decide how many multi path candidates should be maintained in the route table. When the source node is about to transmit a data packet to a destination with multi path routes the node may duplicate data packets each on a separate member route of the multi path or the source node may use an alternative path as a backup path in case the main path is notified as broken. A higher level of fault tolerance can be achieved by sending duplicated data packets. The multiple paths can be fully disjointed or partially disjointed. A better fault tolerance can be served by the fully disjointed multiple paths. As multiple paths are used for fault tolerance data packets are being forwarded redundantly on each member route of the multi path. The network wide bandwidth consumption will be proportionally increased.

As set forth there are a number of common terms used in the field. For example a slot can be a basic TDMA time division structured by frames also known as epochs and slots. In each second there are typically N number of frames and in a frame there are M number of time slots. Usually each active mobile unit would have a chance i.e. a time slot to transmit in every frame.

A beacon can be a TDMA burst that is usually short and in the description it is appended in time to the front of a frame or epoch before the timeslots in which data from nodes is communicated. It could be completed to one slot in some instances. It could contain control information or controlled messages. In a HP Net however a beacon could be transmitted in a slot. In a general TDMA scheme it could be transmitted in a generic time slot.

A beacon slot could be the same as a slot but also refers to the time period in front of frame containing the beacon.

In a 1 hop neighborhood any neighboring node that is directly connected with a single link could be considered as the 1 hop neighborhood.

In a 2 hop neighborhood any neighboring nodes that are directly connected with the maximum of 2 hops 2 links away could be considered as a 2 hop neighborhood.

Network density could be referred to as the number of nodes in a per 1 hop neighborhood the number of nodes in a per 2 hop neighborhood or the number of nodes in a per geographical area.

In channel access in TDMA a channel can be defined by an exclusive use of a time slot in multiple frames. A node could be considered to have a channel when it is allowed to use a fixed time slot in all subsequent frames.

A channel collision could be a continuous slot collision in multiple frames. It usually results from more than one node trying to transmit in the same net channel which is the same slot in the frame.

Successful TDMA communications systems require a matching network size configuration. This has sometimes been solved by manually configuring all nodes to the same network size or using some other communications system to confirm a configuration.

In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention and as illustrated in a beacon is placed in front of each epoch frame even if the epoch or frame is established for different network configurations such as a 2 node 4 node or 8 node. As illustrated in each of the 2 node 4 node and 8 node network configurations each node can transmit receive a beacon.

The small beacon at the beginning of the epoch can be used for probing and listening and permit a node to back off if more nodes are used than expected. The use of the beacon is tolerant for a percentage of collisions. It also permits a node to obtain knowledge about the network environment since it acts similar to an eye in the network environment to determine how many nodes are located within the network and how many nodes are not configured to the same network size or do not have a slot. The use of the beacon can also permit network synchronization. A small burst corresponding to the beacon can be detected much easier by a respective node allowing synchronization information to be obtained.

The beacon can be used to resolve network configuration mistakes and resolve unplanned merging of network groups. For example if any nodes have a different network size configuration from other nodes or when the total network size exceeds a maximum network size configuration the use of the beacon and information obtained from its use can resolve the mistakes and unplanned merging. It can manage network control and transmit important control or textual short messages SM across network groups for which there is no slot. For example command messages for configuration or comments as to specific radio or node configurations could be transmitted and received. One node as a user could be a node for primary instructions or comments. For example the beacon as a short message could recite all radios of group id 0 ABC please shut down now authorized by John Smith. The beacon should be ready for use even at the first sight of connectivity and as long as the network is synchronized.

Through the use of the beacon different network size configurations in a waveform family can be connected. The use of this common and short beacon for configuring the network is advantageous. The beacon is a short burst period and does not waste bandwidth about 1 ms. It provides a corrective measure on network configuration or mis configuration since information can be transmitted in the beacon and received such that the network should be configured in a specific manner. The beacon can also provide interrupt capability for a change of network configuration or for a future change. As a result the use of the beacon allows the chosen TDMA waveform to become a waveform that is communicable across all different network size configurations and it can be used for future dynamic network size adaptation.

In the use of the selected TDMA waveform the beacon provides a practical way to ensure an automatic confirmation of network configuration. Network nodes can transmit in the beacon information concerning network configuration such as the number of nodes and similar information and or receive data and information regarding on the fly network changes or necessary parameters for communication. The beacon can provide an easy deployment to root out configuration conflict and unplanned group merging. The short message service SMS can be used for network control network planning and network management instead of using voice which may not be ready before the network is established. Thus voice instructions may not be necessary.

The short message service SMS is a typical telecommunications protocol that could be used with the beacon for the sending of short typically 160 characters or less text messages. There could be some SMS gateways in the network. The SMS message could have information relating to web services and browsers besides the number of nodes or configuration information. The SMS message could have instructions to a selected radio or group of radios to change format such as can be accomplished with Software Defined Radios.

The beacon in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention allows communication across networks for any configuration instructions since networks should be configured to the same size to have nodes communicate successfully. Thus the beacon acts as a thread that can pass or thread through all the nodes in the different network configurations carrying any requisite instructions or commands. Without the use of the beacon networks have to be manually configured to the same size. If it was determined that a network configuration was wrong the network would have to be configured in the correct manner or there would be no way to communicate.

This use of the beacon in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention could be advantageous in emergency operations. For example a network system used by a rescue squad could use emergency radios that work as an 8 node network. In this example fire may have occurred at a building and the rescue operators in that squad may find that the 8 node configuration is not enough and they increase the network capacity to a 16 node configuration with 16 timeslots. The squad may call for backup from headquarters which sends out more units with radios that are configured for the previous network configuration of 8 nodes i.e. the old network configuration. The emergency operators at the burning building had changed on the fly to a 16 node configuration but when the new rescuers arrive they find that they can not communicate and should be configured to a 16 node network configuration. It is difficult for the new rescuers in this emergency to know and ask hold the current rescuers on location are configured. The use of the beacon however as a short message for example could be used to report to the newer radios and rescuers to change on the fly to a proper 16 node configuration after a query from a new radio.

The foreign node as shown in could correspond an emergency node that comes to the network as a new rescuer. In that example that foreign node may not know which configuration to use until it comes to a the rescue location and transmits and or receives a beacon with that information. There may also be two or three different networks in use and the foreign node can send a beacon about which network to join and communicate with the three different rescue networks. Thus the use of the beacon can be used to configure the waveforms. The use of the beacon becomes not a matter of different modulation methods or different radio technologies but a matter for the configuration of the radio to the selected network. It is possible to pick through different waveforms also.

There is some tolerance in the system since the beacon is a short timeslot and all the nodes as radios or other communications devices can use the beacon. There could be two or three nodes that use the beacon at the same time. If one node or radio is in the middle among those nodes that are beaconing around that particular node to that node it would appear to be a scrambled signal because of the overlap and the collision. Because the beacons are typically used to repeat information from various network nodes such as my configuration is this waveform ID3 or my configuration is waveform ID2 these messages typically would repeatedly occur. If there is some collision sometimes there is no problem because the networks will still indicate how many nodes are in the network through the waveform. Thus some back off from a requesting node can occur.

If there are many nodes in the network then it is not desirable to beacon often because the chance of colliding is very high. A calculation or look up table could be used to provide statistical or other information regarding how often to transmit the beacon to lower the collision rate. Thus the relationship of mapping the beacon rate and possible collisions to the back off could occur and there would be some network tolerance to a percentage of collisions even though there may not be an entire reduction in collisions. It is still possible for nodes to choose randomly even though they collided. The repeating of the beacon is advantageous in this instance. It is evident that the design is tolerable even if there is some collision and it does not frustrate the purpose of the beacon.

The beacon can also be operative to resolve unplanned merging of network groups. For example if two networks are to be merged together but the two networks are configured wrong or differently it may be difficult to determine why the two networks did not merge when a network merger is attempted. With the use of the beacon however it is possible to determine the proper size of the networks and assist in network control and network management. The use of a beacon can also occur for sending short messages similar to a command for example to an entire network team of nodes that may be formed as network nodes. For example radios can be told to shut down or configure differently without having to use a voice message. Messages can be sent as beacons to synchronize again to a desired or requested network size. Conflicts can be resolved using the beacon. Automatic configuration and confirmation can occur because information with the beacon can be repeated as would typically occur.

As Illustrated in the flow chart an external node or other external TDMA network could approach one or more TDMA communications networks Block . The external node or other TDMA network could transmit a beacon as a probe Block . A determination is made whether configuration information has been obtained by the external node or external TDMA network Block . This configuration information could be obtained by having a node in one of the networks respond back. If the answer is no then there is no merger of the external node or TDMA network to the other network Block . If the answer if yes then a determination is made whether the configuration information indicates that a merger with a TDMA network is possible Block . If merger is not possible then no merger occurs Block and if yes then the node or TDMA network merges with the selected network Block .

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

