---

title: Systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions
abstract: Systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions are provided. A representative method includes: recording the communication session; identifying those portions of the communication session not containing speech of at least one of an agent and a customer; and performing processing on the recording of the communication session based, at least in part, on whether the portions contain speech of at least one of the agent and the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08315867&OS=08315867&RS=08315867
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08315867
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070327
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 540 736 entitled Systems and Methods for Analyzing Communication Sessions filed on Sep. 29 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Contact centers are staffed by agents who are trained to interact with customers. Although capable of conducting these interactions using various media the most common scenario involves voice communications using telephones. In this regard when a customer contacts a contact center by phone the call is typically provided to an automated call distributor ACD that is responsible for routing the call to an appropriate agent. Prior to an agent receiving the call however the call can be placed on hold by the ACD for a variety of reasons. By way of example the ACD can enable an interactive voice response system IVR to query the user for information so that an appropriate queue for handling the call can be determined As another example the ACD can place the call on hold until an agent is available for handling the call. In such an on hold period music which is referred to as music on hold and or various announcements which can be prerecorded or use synthetic human voices can be provided to the customer.

For a number of reasons such as compliance regulations it is commonplace to record communication sessions. Notably an entire call including on hold periods can be recorded. However a significant portion of such a recording can be attributed to music on hold announcements and or IVR queries that do not tend to provide substantive information for analysis.

In this regard systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions are provided. An exemplary embodiment of such a system comprises a voice analysis system that is operative to receive information corresponding to a communication session and perform processing on the information. The voice analysis system is configured to exclude a portion of the information corresponding to the communication session that is not attributable to speech of at least one party of he communication session from processing.

An exemplary embodiment of a method for analyzing communication sessions comprises excluding a portion of the communication session not attributable to at least one party of the communication session from processing.

Another exemplary embodiment of a method for analyzing communication sessions comprises recording the communication session identifying those portions of the communication session not containing speech of at least one of an agent and a customer and performing processing on the recording of the communication session based at least in part on whether the portions contain speech of at least one of the agent and the customer.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be described in detail here with reference to several exemplary embodiments systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions can potentially enhance post recording processing of communication sessions. In this regard it is known that compliance recording and or recording of communication sessions for other purposes involves recording various types of information that are of relatively limited substantive use. By way of example music announcements and or queries by IVR systems commonly are recorded. Such information can cause problems during post recording processing in that these types of information can make it difficult for accurate processing by speech recognition and phonetic analysis systems. Additionally since such information affords relatively little substantive value inclusion of such information tends to use recording resources i.e. the information takes up space in memory thereby incurring cost without providing corresponding value.

Referring now to depicts an exemplary embodiment of a system for analyzing communication sessions that incorporates a voice analysis system . Voice analysis system receives information corresponding to a communication session such as a session occurring between a customer and an agent via a communication network . As a non limiting example communications network can include a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet and or a Local Area Network LAN . In some embodiments the voice analysis system can receive the information corresponding to the communication session from a data storage device e.g. a hard drive that is storing a recording of the communication session.

In some embodiments information that does not correspond to a voice component of any party to the communication session is deleted from the recording of the communication session. As another example such information could be identified and any post recording processing algorithms could ignore those portions thereby enabling processing resources to be devoted to analyzing other portions of the recordings.

As a further example at least with respect to announcements and queries from IVR systems that involve pre recorded or synthetic human voices i.e. computer generated voices information regarding those audio components can be provided to the post recording processing algorithms so that analysis can be accomplished efficiently. In particular if the processing system has knowledge of the actual words that are being spoken in those audio components the processing algorithm can more quickly and accurately convert those audio components to transcript form as in the case of speech recognition or to phoneme sequences as in the case of phonetic analysis .

The contact center also incorporates an automated call distributor ACD that facilitates routing of a call between the customer and the agent. The communication session is recorded by a recording system that is able to provide information corresponding to the communication session to the voice analysis system for analysis.

In operation the voice analysis system receives information corresponding to a communication session that occurs between a customer and an agent with the session occurring via a communication network . Specifically the ACD routes the call so that the customer and agent can interact and the recorder records the communication session.

With respect to the voce analysis system the identification system analyzes the communication session e.g. from the recording to determine whether post recording processing should be conducted with respect to each of the recorded portions of the session. Based on the determinations which can be performed in various manners examples of which are described in detail later processing can be performed by the post recording processing system . By way of example the embodiment of includes both a speech recognition system and a phonetic analysis system that can be used either individually or in combination to process portions of the communication session.

Notably the ACD can be responsible for providing various announcements to the customer. In some embodiments these announcements can be provided via synthetic human voices and or recordings. It should be noted that other types of announcements can be present in recordings that are not provided by an ACD. By way of example a telephone central office can introduce announcements that could be recorded. As another example voice mail systems can provide announcements. The principles described herein relating to treatment of ACD announcements are equally applicable to such other forms of announcements regardless of the manner in which the announcements become associated with a recording.

Additionally or alternatively the ACD can facilitate interaction of the customer with an IVR system that queries the customer for various information. Additionally or alternatively the ACD can provide music on hold such as when the call is queued awaiting pickup by an agent. It should be noted that other types of music can be present in recordings that are not provided by an ACD. By way of example a customer could be speaking to an agent when music is being played in the background. The principles described herein relating to treatment of ACD music on hold are equally applicable to such other forms of music regardless of the manner in which the music becomes associated with a recording.

In block information regarding the presence of the music announcements and or IVR audio is used to influence post recording processing of a communication session. By way of example the corresponding portions of the recording can be designated or otherwise flagged with information indicating that music announcements and or IVR audio is present. Other manners in which such a post recording process can be influenced will be described in greater detail later.

Thereafter the process proceeds to block in which post recording processing is performed. In particular such post recording processing can include at least one of speech recognition and phonetic analysis.

With respect to the identification of various portions of a communication session a voice analysis system can be used to distinguish those portions of a communication session that include voice components of a party to the communication from other audio components. Depending upon the particular embodiment such a voice analysis system could identify the voice components of the parties as being suitable for both post recording analysis and or could identify other portions as not being suitable for post recording analysis.

In some embodiments a voice analysis system is configured to identify dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones i.e. the sounds generated by a touch tone phone. In some of these embodiments the tones can be removed from the recording. In removing such tones prior to speech recognition and or phonetic analysis such analysis may be more effective as the DTMF tones may no longer mask some of the recorded speech.

As an additional benefit the desire for improved security of personal information may require in some circumstances that such DTMF tones not be stored or otherwise made available for later access. For instance a customer responding to an IVR system query may input DTMF tones corresponding to a social security number or a bank account number. Clearly recording such tones could increase the likelihood of this information being compromised. However an embodiment of a voice analysis system that deletes these tones does not incur this potential liability.

In some embodiments signaling tones such as distant and local ring tones and busy equipment signals can be identified. With respect to the identification of ring tones identification of regional tones can provide additional information about a call that may be useful. By way of example such tones could identify the region to which an agent placed a call while a customer was on hold. Moreover once identified the signaling tones can be removed from the recording of the communication session.

Regional identification of audio components also can occur in some embodiments with respect to announcements. In this regard some regions provide unique announcements such as those originating from a central telephone office. For example in the United States an announcement may be as follows I am sorry all circuits are busy. Please try your call again later. Identifying such an audio component in a recording could then inform a user that a party to the communication session attempted to place a call to the United States.

Various techniques can be used for differentiating the various portions of a communication session. In this regard energy envelope analysis which involves graphically displaying the amplitude of audio of a communication session can be used to distinguish music from voice components. This is because music tends to follow established tempo patterns and oftentimes exhibits higher energy levels than voice components. Further music may tend to exhibit fewer gaps than you find in conversations where inter word and inter sentence gaps are fairly regular. That is in music there is often a background beat or instrumental that rarely or never drops to zero.

Another technique for identifying both music and announcements is that the original source material e.g. a CD can be available for use as a template to help identify a portion of a session by correlating the energy envelope of the sampled period with that of the source material.

Additionally or alternatively CTI information can be used for differentiating the various portions of a communication session. By way of example if CTI information indicates call transferred to queue X knowledge that queue X has a particular announcement associated therewith such as music on hold can be used to identify the portion of the session associated with that queue as containing music. Similarly information from other sources such as realtime and or audit log trail of IVR systems can be used to identify which announcements were played to which call at what time.

In some embodiments such identification can be accomplished manually semi automatically or automatically. By way of example a semi automatic mode of identification can include providing a user with a graphical user interface that depicts an energy envelope corresponding to a communication session. The graphical user interface could then provide the user with a sliding window that can be used to identify contiguous portions of the communication session. In this regard the sliding window can be altered to surround a portion of the recording that is identified such as by listening to that portion as music. The portion of the communication session that has been identified within such a sliding window as being attributable to music can then be automatically compared by the system to other portions of the recorded communication session. When a suitable match is automatically identified each such portion also can be designated as being attributable to music.

Additionally or alternatively some embodiments of a voice analyzer system can differentiate between announcements and tones that are regional in nature. This can e accomplished by comparing the recorded announcements and or tones to a database of known announcements and tones to check for parity. Once designations are made about the portions of a communication sessions containing regional characteristics the actual audio can be discarded or otherwise ignored during post recording processing. In this manner speech analysis does not need to be undertaken with respect to those portions of the audio thereby allowing speech analysis systems to devote more time and resources to other portions of the communication session. Notably however the aforementioned designations can be retained in the records of the communication session so that information corresponding to the occurrence of such characteristics is not discarded.

In some embodiments a database can be used for comparative purposes to identify variable announcements. That is an announcement that includes established fields within which information can be changed. An example of such a variable announcement includes an airline reservation announcement that indicates current rate promotions. Such an announcement usually includes a fixed field identifying the airline and then variable fields identifying a destination and a fare. Knowledge of the first variable field involving a destination could be used to simplify post recording processing in some embodiments whereas other embodiments may avoid processing of that portion once a determination is made that the portion corresponds to an announcement. Alternatively a hybrid approach could involve not processing of audio corresponding to fixed fields and allowing post recording processing on the audio corresponding to the variable fields.

Another form of variable announcements relates to voicemail systems. In this regard voicemail systems use variable fields to inform a caller that a voice message can be recorded. In some embodiments these announcements can be identified and handled such as described before. One notable distinction however involves the use of the actual voicemail message that is left by a caller. If such a caller indicates that the message is private some embodiments can delete the message or otherwise avoid post recording processing of the message.

Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components. The processor may be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor. Additionally the memory includes an operating system as well as instructions associated with a voice analysis system exemplary embodiments of which are described above.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of a possible implementation of one or more embodiments that can be implemented in software and or hardware. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical functions. It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order in which depicted. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the functions such as depicted in the flowcharts can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

