---

title: Displaying image data and geographic element data
abstract: A mobile computing device includes a housing, a camera, a display, a memory, and a processing circuit. The housing is configured to be carried by a user while in use. The camera is configured to output image data. The memory is configured to store geographic element data representing one or more geographic elements. The processing circuit is configured to receive the geographic element data for the plurality of geographic elements. The processing circuit is configured to determine a camera orientation. The processing circuit is configured to concurrently display the image data and geographic element data for the plurality of geographic elements on the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08994851&OS=08994851&RS=08994851
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08994851
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070807
---
Cameras may be used with mobile computing devices of many types. Some mobile computing devices are also capable of displaying navigational data. Positioning devices may also be used with mobile computing devices to determine the position of the device and to display nearby points of interest.

There is a need for an improved system and method for displaying geographic elements on a display of a computing device such as a mobile computing device. Further there is a need for a system and method which display geographic elements based at least in part on orientation of the device and or a direction in which the user of the device is facing. Further still there is a need for a system and method which display geographic elements based at least in part on updated or instantaneous orientation data as a user of the device changes the direction the user or device is facing. Further still there is a need for a system and method configured to enable a user to point a mobile computing device at a location or geographic element and get information about the geographic element e.g. street name landmark etc. .

Referring first to a mobile computing device is shown. Device is a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant functionality. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer digital camera camera phone personal navigation device etc. which may be configured to be carried by a user while in use or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer etc. . Personal digital assistant functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management functions e.g. e mail calendar contacts address book notes bookmarks favorites etc. database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording etc. and may be configured to synchronize personal information from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop remote networked server etc. . Device may comprise a general purpose microprocessor which is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download SecureDigital card etc.

Device comprises a housing having a front side and a back side . An earpiece speaker a loudspeaker and a user input device are coupled to housing . Housing is configured to hold a screen in a fixed or slidable relationship above a user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane as the user input device. This fixed or slidable relationship excludes a hinged relationship between the screen and plurality of keys. Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a typical front pocket found in a pair of pants comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones personal digital assistants and some digital cameras but excluding typical laptop computers tablet PCs and larger digital cameras. In alternative embodiments display user input device earpiece and loudspeaker may each be positioned anywhere on front side back side or the edges therebetween.

In various embodiments device has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of no more than about 85 mm or no more than about 65 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of at least about 55 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of no more than about 135 mm or no more than about 125 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of at least about 110 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of no more than about 30 mm or no more than about 25 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 50 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 2500 cubic centimeters and or up to about 1500 cubic centimeters. In some of these embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 1000 cubic centimeters and or up to about 600 cubic centimeters.

While described with regards to a hand held device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants a wireless personal area network PAN system such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit which may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise additional processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc. Alternatively processing circuit may comprise any digital and or analog circuit elements comprising discrete and or solid state components suitable for use with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor and a memory coupled to radio processor . Device may be configured to wirelessly access a memory coupled to a remote computer . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor or radio processor . Memories may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor and radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example and memory may be a removable memory device.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad an alphanumeric keypad a touch screen a touch pad a speech or voice recognition device and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor and a I O interface coupled to the radio processor. I O interfaces may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

Device may comprise a transceiver coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth.

The transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more location determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

Device may be configured to receive location data and associate the location data with a digital image captured by device or for use with other applications such as navigation applications. Device may comprise a local position determination circuit e.g. a GPS receiver which may be integrated within housing configured to receive satellite data via an antenna and to calculate a position fix. Local position determination circuit may alternatively comprise a GPS receiver in a second housing separate from housing but in the vicinity of device and configured to communicate with device wirelessly e.g. via a PAN such as Bluetooth . Device may be configured to communicate over a radio access network e.g. UMTS radio access network with the remote computer e.g. a location determination entity PDE a location proxy server LPS and or a mobile positioning center MPC etc. .

When assisting the mobile computing device the remote computer may handle various processing operations and also may provide information to aid location determination. Examples of position assist data may include satellite based measurements terrestrial based measurements and or system based measurements such as satellite almanac information GPS code phase measurements ionospheric data ephemeris data time correction information altitude estimates timing offsets forward reverse link calibration coarse data and so forth.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS location based service application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate location requests e.g. requests for position fixes and location responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless 911 emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

Referring now to a system for displaying image data and geographic element data will be described. Some or all of the geographic element data may be stored on memory on device and or memory located on remote computer . In embodiments wherein geographic element data is stored on memory some or all of the geographic element data may have been downloaded from memory on remote computer . A camera may be coupled e.g. wired or wirelessly to processing circuit and is configured to output image data photographic data of a person or thing e.g. video data digital still image data etc. to processing circuit . Position determination circuit and user input device may also be coupled to processing circuit .

In this embodiment memory or may be configured to store geographic element data representing one or more geographic elements. Geographic elements may comprise buildings streets points of interest waypoints bodies of water bridges sculptures monuments parks paths other geographic elements or other point locations that a user may find useful or interesting. Geographic elements may also comprise villages towns cities counties states countries the borders thereof other geographic regions etc. Geographic element data may comprise names addresses locations latitudinal and longitudinal coordinates size depth historical data informational data such as hours of operation population other textual data and other geographic element data.

Processing circuit is configured to receive the geographic element data for the one or more geographic elements to determine the orientation of camera and to concurrently display the image data and geographic element data for the one or more geographic elements on display . The data types may be presented one after another e.g. the image data followed by the geographic element data the geographic element data followed by the image data etc. or at substantially the same time. The data types may be presented on a single software display screen and may be presented substantially simultaneously. Geographic element data may be displayed in proximity to on top of aligned with or adjacent to a geographic element shown in the image data.

In one embodiment processing circuit may be configured to determine or estimate the orientation or direction of camera or device at least in part via an image processing algorithm. The image processing algorithm may be configured to compare a first image to a second subsequent image to identify portions of the images representing a movement of an object in the image and determine an orientation change of the camera based on the identified portions representing movement. An exemplary image processing algorithm is described below with reference to .

In an alternative embodiment processing circuit may be configured to determine the orientation of camera at least in part via position determination circuit . Processing circuit may determine the orientation of camera by using position determination circuit to compare the device position at a first time with the device position at a second time. In another alternative embodiment processing circuit may determine the orientation of camera at least in part via user input from user input device wherein the user provides the orientation to device e.g. cardinal or intercardinal or other orientation data facing a particular geographic element etc. . A compass gyroscope or other directional indication device may alternatively provide the orientation of camera . In still other alternative embodiments two or more of these systems for determining the orientation of camera may be used in combination. For example processing circuit may determine the initial orientation of camera via user input from user input device or positional data from position determination circuit and may determine any subsequent changes in the orientation of camera via an image processing algorithm.

Processing circuit may be configured to concurrently display the image data received from camera and geographic element data received from memory or on display . Processing circuit may be configured to determine the geographic element data to display based in part on a field of view of camera as indicated by the orientation data and or current position data. Processing circuit may be configured to display only geographic element data representing geographic elements within the field of view of camera . Alternatively processing circuit may be configured to display directional indicators representing the relative position of geographic elements not within the field of view of camera . Processing circuit may determine whether a geographic element is within the field of view of camera by comparing the orientation of camera with position and size data for the geographic element.

In another embodiment processing circuit may be configured to select geographic element data based at least in part on device position data from position determination circuit . Processing circuit may be configured to select geographic element data only for geographic elements within a set distance from the device position. In another embodiment processing circuit may be configured to select geographic element data only for geographic elements within a distance selected by a user via user input device .

In yet another embodiment processing circuit may be configured to display one or more geographic elements in a first mode and in a second mode enable a user to select geographic element data for one or more of the geographic elements for display concurrently with the image data. In the second mode a user may limit the geographic element data that is displayed by using user input device to select geographic element data for one or more of the geographic elements. A user may select geographic element data using one or more possible selection methods such as touching the one or more geographic elements on display if display is touch sensitive selecting geographic element data using a key pad or one or more buttons selecting geographic element data using voice commands and other selection methods. Processing circuit may be configured to display geographic element data in the second mode only if it has been selected by a user. In one embodiment a user may select whether to display the geographic element data in the first mode or the second mode.

In another embodiment processing circuit may be configured to display a distinguishing indicia which distinguishes at least one of the geographic elements from another of the geographic elements. The distinguishing indicia may be a geometric shape such as a rectangle or oval surrounding part or all of the geographic element an alteration of color contrast or brightness an arrow or other directional indicator a blinking indicator or other distinguishing indicia. In one exemplary embodiment processing circuit may be configured to display distinguishing indicia for all geographic elements within the field of view of camera for which geographic element data is available. In another exemplary embodiment processing circuit may be configured to display distinguishing indicia for one or more geographic elements based at least in part on the geographic element data e.g. highlight all streets all buildings all geographic elements on a particular street etc. . In yet another exemplary embodiment processing circuit may be configured to allow a user to select one or more geographic elements to distinguish with distinguishing indicia via user input device .

According to another exemplary embodiment memory may be configured to store geographic element data representing one or more geographic elements and processing circuit may be configured to receive the geographic element data for the one or more geographic elements determine the orientation of camera and concurrently display image data received from camera and geographic element data on display . In this embodiment as the camera orientation changes processing circuit is configured to move the geographic element data on the display in at least two dimensions such as for example the horizontal and vertical directions. The geographic element data in this embodiment may maintain a positional relationship with image data on the display as the camera orientation changes. Processing circuit may accomplish this by assigning display coordinates to the geographic element data and updating the coordinates as the orientation of camera changes. The geographic element data may comprise textual data. Processing circuit may be configured to determine the orientation of camera at least in part via an image processing algorithm. Processing circuit may also be configured to select the geographic element data based at least in part on device position data provided by position determination circuit .

Referring now to an exemplary method of providing displaying image and geographic element data will be described. At step the method comprises outputting image data from a camera and receiving the image data in a processing circuit of a mobile computing device. At step the method comprises storing geographic element data representing geographic elements in a memory and receiving the geographic element data from memory in the processing circuit. At step the method comprises determining the orientation of the camera. At step the method comprises concurrently displaying the image data and geographic element data on a display. For example the method may comprise displaying image data and geographic element data for a certain building. The method may comprise receiving an image of the building from a camera receiving the name and address of the building from a memory determining the orientation of the camera and concurrently displaying the image of the building and text representing the name and address of the building.

According to another exemplary embodiment processing circuit may be configured to receive an image from camera and extract data from the image and save the extracted data as part of the geographic element data for a geographic element. Processing circuit may extract data from the image using optical character recognition OCR or another method of data extraction from an image. In one embodiment camera may be used to capture an image of a street sign billboard or other signage and processing circuit may extract the words from the image.

According to another exemplary embodiment the image data from the camera may be displayed along with the geographic element data in real time. The camera may output image data such as digital still images a video camera feed or live video or other images.

According to another exemplary embodiment processing circuit may be configured to superimpose navigational information or geographic elements data on a video camera display when a camera application operable on circuit is enabled by the user or when a dedicated application is enabled by the user.

Referring now to a screen display is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Screen display comprises a border illustrating a variety of icons relating to wireless telephony battery life time of day etc. In an image area of screen display an image from camera is shown. In this exemplary embodiment geographic element data is concurrently displayed with the image e.g. overlayed superimposed etc. in a few exemplary forms. Geographic element data for buildings are shown at indicia U.S. Bank and Sears Tower . Indicia comprises geographic element text data enclosed in a rectangular border disposed adjacent overlapping or near image data associated with the U.S. Bank building. Indicia comprises geographic element text data enclosed in an oval border disposed adjacent overlapping or near image data associated with the Sears Tower building. The oval border can be indicative of a characteristic of the geographic element e.g. the Sears Tower is some distance away or disposed on or near a horizon line or may be an alternative graphical way to display geographic text data. Indicia shows street data e.g. Main Street which may be disposed on or near a street sign in the image data or on a street as shown at indicia . Alternatively street sign may be a graphical element generated by processing circuit overlayed on the image data to show the name of the street. An indicia is disposed in a proximate vertical location to illustrate a nearby geographic element e.g. a Mobil gas station along with an arrow indicating the direction of the nearby geographic element.

According to one exemplary embodiment as the user changes the orientation of display the image data and geographic element data represented by the indicia will move as well and new image data and corresponding geographic element data may be presented on display screen .

According to another exemplary embodiment the indicia may change in color or size to indicate proximity point of interest preselected destination etc.

Referring now to a system and method for displaying image data and geographic element data will be described according to another exemplary embodiment. Graphic is a schematic diagram of an exemplary geographic location having geographic elements comprising a building a first street and a second street . An arrow indicates North and an X indicates a positions at which a user is using device . A dotted arrow indicates an initial direction that a camera on device is facing.

In this exemplary embodiment displaying the image data and geographic element data comprises a first phase in which the camera is aligned. Alignment is performed initially when the application is switched on every time device loses alignment or at other times. In a second phase device is configured to retrieve geographic element data and superpose the geographic element data on the image data from the camera. The second phase may be performed for every video frame generated by the camera.

In the camera alignment phase an application running on processing circuit will retrieve the current geographical position of device retrieve a default orientation from memory e.g. North and superpose superimpose overlay or display concurrently a camera image and the geographical element data which would be in the camera view if the camera is facing in the default orientation. Screen illustrates a geographic element frame or image before alignment which comprises geographic element data for a building and two street geographic elements as well as optional edges of the graphic element frame. Screen illustrates the geographic element frame superposed on the camera image when the camera is facing the initial orientation or direction before alignment. Elements and are superposed on the camera image which shows a camera image of buildings and street and surrounding geographic elements.

Next the user may pan the camera and align the instantaneous video frame with the superposed geographical element data until the screen appears as shown in screen . Processing circuit may configure a button soft key or other shortcut key to receive an indication from the user as to when the video frame is aligned with the superposed geographic element data. For example a center button of a 5 way navigation system may be the shortcut key. Processing circuit may be configured to receive an indication from the user via the shortcut key to make the application determine that the video or camera frame is aligned to the geographical element data. The application will then proceed to the second phase.

During the geographical element retrieval and superposition phase frames of motion vectors may be calculated continuously between successive video frames as will be described below with reference to . Processing circuit may be configured to apply these motion vectors to the current geographical element frame to estimate the new geographical element frame and the geographical element data that should comprise the new geographical element frame. The new geographical element frame may be superimposed on the current video frame.

In case there is misalignment for example when the current geographical element data and the current video frame do not match the application may be configured to retrieve the north facing geographical element and the process may be repeated which step may occur manually or automatically.

At step a new geographic element frame is provided based on the first geographic element frame and the motion vector matrix . Geographic element data is retrieved from memory as needed and reoriented or repositioned as needed to create new geographic element frame . New frame is then superimposed at step on new frame at t. At step the display screen of device is updated with the video frame from the camera superimposed with the new geographic element frame .

With reference to the disclosure and claims use of the phrase based on means based in least in part on and use of the term a or an means one or more or at least one. Further any of the steps of any of the methods disclosed herein may be combined with any of the other steps and or rearranged with other steps in alternative embodiments. Specifically various embodiments may make use of different combinations of parts or all of the methods disclosed herein.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the FIGs. and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. For example while exemplary embodiments are illustrated for use on a mobile computing devices the teachings herein may extend to use in other fields such as automobiles aircraft etc. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

