---

title: System and methods for linking television viewers with advertisers and broadcasters
abstract: The present invention provides systems and methods for providing television schedule information to a viewer, and for allowing the viewer to link, search, select and interact with information in a remote database, e.g., a database on the internet. The television schedule information can be displayed on a variety of viewer interfaces, such as televisions screens, computer monitors, PCTV screens and the like. The television schedule information may be stored on the viewer's computer, television, PCTV, or a remote server (e.g., a website), or the television schedule information may be downloaded from a remote database to the viewer's computer, television or PCTV.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615782&OS=08615782&RS=08615782
owner: Starsight Telecast, Inc.
number: 08615782
owner_city: Fremont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070820
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 810 324 filed Mar. 16 2001 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 09 416 161 filed Oct. 11 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 263 501 issued Jul. 17 2001 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 08 837 078 filed Apr. 11 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 002 394 issued Dec. 14 1999 which is a continuation in part of Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 60 022 826 filed on Jul. 26 1996 and 60 015 648 filed on Apr. 19 1996 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 537 650 filed on Oct. 2 1995 now abandoned. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 837 025 pending filed Apr. 11 1997 and its Appendices A B and C. Each of the referenced applications is incorporated herein by this reference as though set forth in full.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for providing information to television viewers and more particularly to systems and methods for allowing the viewer to retrieve search select and interact with television schedule information located in a remote database computer network or on line service e.g. a network server on the Internet or World Wide Web.

As the number of television stations in a metropolitan area or on a cable network has increased the number of programs of potential interest that are presented to a viewer has risen dramatically. With the use of dish antennas capable of receiving direct satellite signals the multitude of programs available to the viewer has further increased. Consequently television schedule systems that are provided directly on the viewer s television screen have been developed to assist the viewer in sorting through these various programs and determining which programs to watch or record. One such television schedule system is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 353 121 Young et al. the complete disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In one embodiment of Young the television schedule includes a series of menu screens having an array of cells corresponding to different television programs. The viewer may scroll through the cells to view which television programs are being presented on various channels at various times. In addition the viewer may select certain cells to obtain more information on the associated program or to pull up other submenus with additional options.

The recent development of television schedule systems such as the above described patent to Young have created many new challenges and opportunities. One such challenge and opportunity is to provide viewers with additional information associated with a particular program in the television guide. As a television viewer is browsing through the television programs he or she may wish to obtain more information relating to specific areas of interest or concerns associated with the show such as the actors actresses other movies released during the same time period or travel packages or promotions that may be available through primary secondary or third party vendors. Offering this type of information to the television viewer can be difficult however because their are hundreds of different programs broadcast every day. In addition the available information changes at a rapid pace which makes it even more difficult to provide this information in present television schedule guides.

In television broadcasting it may also be desirable to interact with the viewer. There are many commercials and programs which request viewer action such as purchasing an advertised product making a monetary contribution responding to a survey answering a question or participating in contests with other viewers for example. One problem with this existing system is that it is often difficult to motivate a viewer to request information or send in a contribution after the broadcast of the commercial or program. Viewers will often forget the advertisement or simply lose motivation to spend money or request information after the commercial or program is over. Another problem is that companies sponsoring these commercials or programs would often like to provide their viewers with further information if the viewers could be identified or if the viewer requests the additional information. Thus it would be desirable to provide a ready and efficient method to facilitate an exchange of information between television viewers and producers promoters and advertisers during the broadcast of the commercial or program.

The present invention provides systems and methods for providing television schedule information on a visual interface and for allowing the viewer to retrieve search select and interact with information located in a remote database computer network or on line service such as a network server on the Internet or World Wide Web. The television schedule information can be displayed on a variety of visual interfaces such as televisions screens computer monitors PCTV screens and the like. The television schedule information may be stored on the viewer s computer television PCTV or a remote server e.g. a website or the television schedule information may be downloaded from a remote database or computer network to the viewer s computer television or PCTV. The present invention also provides systems and methods for allowing the viewer to navigate and interact with a program guide that is displayed for example on the viewer s television screen. The program guide will usually include a schedule information area that depicts the programs that are being presented on each channel at each time during the day week or month. With an input device such as a remote control device pointing device mouse keyboard microphone or the like the viewer can browse through the schedule information area and or obtain more information about programs of particular interest.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a system and method is provided for directly linking television viewers with broadcasters and advertisers during the real time broadcast or non real time internet broadcast of a commercial or program. In this embodiment the system includes a viewer interface such as a television computer PCTV or a television coupled to a computer system and a communication device for coupling the viewer interface with a computer network such as the Internet or World Wide Web. A television guide database or network server is coupled to the computer network or directly to the viewer interface for providing the television schedule and or listing information to the viewer. The viewer interface will have a memory and a processor with appropriate software not shown for searching retrieving initiating a subscription to and interacting with information from the television guide database or the commercial databases coupled to the computer network. Alternatively this function may be provided through the computer network by allowing the viewer to access download and or automatically upgrade an application or applet e.g. a JAVA applet having appropriate software to run the television schedule and or listing information guide on a display.

In the above embodiment commercial providers e.g. Budweiser and or television station broadcasters e.g. ABC and or program directory library or archival sources e.g. Turner Classics Film Library or other such repository of digitally available programs or programming may also have databases coupled to the viewer interface. In this manner the viewer may directly access these databases during the broadcast of a television program or while the viewer is browsing through the television schedule and or listing information guide. For example the viewer may purchase goods and services directly through the commercial sponsor or through a delivery system provided by the television schedule and or listing information guide. This type of advertising allows the advertiser to directly target a particular program and it allows the viewer to directly purchase the products during the advertisement or associated program. Consequently viewers will not forget the advertisement or simply lose motivation to spend money or request information and or related products offers and services after the commercial or program is over.

The present invention provides systems and methods for providing television schedule and or listing information to a viewer and for allowing the viewer to link search select retrieve initiate a subscription to and interact with information in a remote database computer network or on line server e.g. a network server on the Internet or World Wide Web. The television schedule and or listing information can be displayed on a variety of viewer interfaces such as televisions screens computer monitors PCTV screens and other interactive display devices. The television schedule and or listing information may be stored on the viewer s computer television PCTV or a remote server e.g. a website or the television schedule and or listing information may be downloaded from a remote database or computer network and or internet broadcast to the viewer s computer television or PCTV. Suitable television schedule and or listing information systems or video guides that can be used with the present invention are described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 353 121 5 479 266 the complete disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The systems and methods of the present invention may also be useful with video guides available under the name of SuperGuide from The SuperGuide Corporation of Shelby N.C.

In one embodiment the invention incorporates an interactive computer system which assists the viewer in utilizing television schedule and or listing information and linking with a database to search and retrieve initiate a subscription to information. Preferably the information is contextually related to television programs within the television schedule and or listing information. Referring to the drawings in detail wherein like elements are indicated by like numerals a representative television schedule and or listing information system for use with the contextual linking system and method of the present invention is illustrated in . As shown in schedule system includes a computer system coupled to a television system . Computer system includes a standard computer which is for example any available personal computer e.g. IBM compatible Macintosh and the like . Computer can also be located within a set top box e.g. a DSS box . Computer contains a hard drive a processor and a disk input for providing computer with various additional software. An input device allows a viewer to interact with computer and or a television schedule guide described below and illustrated in . Line is connected to an available serial parallel or other data port on computer . This line is used to connect other devices components to computer .

In another embodiment computer system may be combined with television system to form a PCTV. In this embodiment the computer will usually include a processor that may be used solely to run the program guide and associated software or the processor may be configured to run other applications such as word processing graphics or the like. The computer will usually be incorporated into the television set so that the television display can be used as both a television screen and a computer monitor. Alternatively the television may be incorporated into the computer so that the computer monitor performs this dual function. Usually the PCTV will include a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a remote control device similar to the one described above. However these input devices may be combined into a single device that inputs commands with keys a trackball pointing device scrolling mechanism voice activation or a combination thereof.

Television system includes a television which may be any commercially available television and a user input device . Television system may or may not include a video tape recorder VCR . In this embodiment VCRs and are coupled to television . These VCRs and can be for example any commercially available VCRs or any other type of recording and or storage device analog or digital . Input device allows the viewer to interact with television VCR and or VCR . Input device may be a remote control keyboard mouse a voice activated interface or the like. A suitable input device for use with the present invention is described in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 022 826 filed on Jul. 26 1996 and 60 015 648 filed on Apr. 19 1996 the complete disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. A line is used to connect other devices to VCR . Other devices can also be connected in series between VCR and television via line . With this configuration computer or computer system and television or television system can be located in different rooms within a private residence or a commercial building.

In one embodiment a computer program provided on diskettes a CD ROM or other medium contains the software needed for receiving organizing and displaying data for the television schedule guide. These diskettes are inserted in disk input and the software for these diskettes is stored within computer on hard drive or on another mass storage location. This action can be performed by for example the user or a serviceperson. The computer program can also be provided access download and or automatically upgrade for example via downloading from a satellite transmission through the internet or other on line service or transmission through another type of land line e.g. coax cable telephone line optical fiber or wireless technology e.g. Richochet .

In addition to the computer program data for the basic schedule information and other related data e.g. data relating to a particular show are needed for the generation and maintenance of the television schedule and or listing information guide. These data are received in the preferred embodiment via line they can also be provided via a satellite broadcast from satellite or wireless technology e.g. Richochet . Additionally the television schedule and or listing information and related data can be sent directly to television via satellite or wireless technology e.g. Richochet . In this arrangement the television schedule information and related data does not have to be transmitted from computer system to television system .

In one embodiment line is a telephone line which provides access to the internet or other on line service via for example a regular modem or direct modem access to a schedule provider. The schedule data are then provided to the viewer from a remote database via the internet or other on line service or directly from the service provider. As stated above line can also be for example coax cable optical fiber or any other land line which can provide data to computer . The software program saved on hard drive then utilizes the data received on line to generate a television schedule guide. The user can retrieve this generated television schedule guide when desired.

In a preferred embodiment the electronic program guide of the present invention may be implemented either on a personal computer a PCTV a television connected to a set top box or a television including a custom board. However the invention is not limited to any particular hardware configuration and will have increased utility as new combinations of computers and television systems are developed. In the following any of the above will sometimes be referred to as a TV system . Block diagrams of representative TV systems are depicted in . Details of implementation are not depicted because the invention is not limited to any particular TV system.

As is well known the picture to be displayed may be transmitted as an analog signal for example according to the NTSC standard utilized in the United States or as a digital signal modulated onto an analog carrier. The signals may be received over a cable or via an antenna or satellite dish. Typically television sets are designed to receive analog signals and computers display devices are designed to display pictures encoded in a digital format. However decoder system converts the digital data to an analog signal for display on a television set and TV modems can format analog TV signals for display on a monitor.

In analog or digital TV signals received via cable antenna or satellite dish are provided to a television system. If the signal is from a digital broadcast service then a decoder converts the signal to baseband video and audio or channel RF. If the signal is an analog signal it is passed through as a live video output. The television system depending on its configuration receives selected ones of the outputs and displays the received program.

A PCTV includes a TV card connected to either live video baseband video or channel output digitizes the video image and displays the video image in a resizeable window on the computer monitor. The PCTV is also coupled to land telephone lines by a modem .

If the received signal is an analog TV signal the TV card of the PCTV digitizes the analog signal and extracts included information from the vertical blanking intervals. On the other hand if the signal is a digital signal separate audio video VBI vertical blanking information such as closed caption teletext and program related information program guide and conditional access information are provided as separate bitstreams. The video and audio bitstreams for programs are converted to a format for display and the program guide information is processed to form program guide database. The processor executing software stored in memory generates interactive electronic program guide images and images of received programs. The guide can be used to interact with and control programs displayed in the window.

A television system configured to display an electronic program guide such as a guide provided by StarSight telecast includes an on screen display controller and other hardware described below. If a standard analog broadcast signal is received program guide data is extracted from the VBI by a VBI data slicer and processed to form a program database. If a DBS digital signal is received either from a satellite or cable VBI and program data are provided in separate bit streams. The program guide images are generated are either generated locally or remotely and provided to an on screen display controller. Interactivity is provided via a remote control.

Alternatively the program guide can be displayed on a computer monitor that interactively controls the television set through for example an IR interface including an IR blaster to generate IR codes to control the television and or a VCR.

If the electronic guide database is generated locally the system for creating the electronic programming guide must receive television schedule information and process the received information to create a database. Thus the system usually requires a data reception unit a processor memory to store program code and a database an on screen display generator OSD and a control interface for tuning to selected channels.

In one preferred embodiment the schedule information is transmitted as a set of short commands of specified formats. Different commands communicate information such as a show schedule for a given channel the title of each show in the schedule descriptions and information attributes about each show in the channel. Thus information for a show to be broadcast at a particular time is transmitted in several commands. ID numbers in the commands facilitate organizing the information into a relational database utilizing database engine DBE software stored in memory and executed by the processor.

In a preferred embodiment a board is included at a viewer s television set and the database is stored locally and commands are transmitted in the VBIs of programming on a designated channel for example PBS. An example of a board for receiving program guide information generating program guide database displaying the program guide and interactively controlling the program guide is depicted in . The commands are transmitted to the board in the vertical blanking intervals of programming broadcast on a designated channel.

Alternatively the commands could be transmitted to the local unit over land telephone lines. Additionally as described below the database may be built remotely and the guide itself transmitted to the local unit.

The database engine builds a hierarchical database in the RAM. The hierarchical structure of the database is depicted in . The database is structured internally as schedule data structures and theme data structures linked by handles and handle tables. Each handle is an index to a handle table which contains pointers to blocks of memory where items of the database are stored.

In another embodiment for example a DSS system program guide data is transmitted as a bit stream that is processed by the database engine.

Additionally a N.E.W.S. new entertainment weather and sports database has been developed. Commands including story text and story IDs are transmitted. Links from the program guide to stories related to a program can be created and the related stories can be accessed from the guide.

An advertisement database is also created from commands including advertising text and logos including IDs for linking the advertisements to shows displayed in the EPG. The user may access the advertising information directly from the guide.

An internet database is also created from commands including URLs to internet sites related to programs displayed on the EPG. If the viewer is viewing the EPG on a platform that is Web enabled e.g. WebTV a PC or PCTV then a linked site can be accessed directly from the EPG.

Additionally a graphics program module builds various displays utilizing schedule show title and other information from the database. If the OSD controller operates in the character mode the display is a grid of character codes which are transferred to the OSD controller which generates the on screen display.

An input response user interface program module responds to user input to generate new displays responsive to the particular input. In one preferred embodiment the user utilizes an input device e.g. a remote control mouse voice activated interface or keyboard to place a pointer over a part of the current display and clicks. A suitable input device for use with the present invention is described in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 022 826 filed on Jul. 26 1996 and 60 015 648 filed on Apr. 19 1996 the complete disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. The input response module responds to the position of the pointer and the particular display currently displayed to generate a responsive display or take a particular action. In another preferred embodiment the user interface responds to function buttons on a remote control. Specific examples will be described below.

In the unit receives Baseband Video in from the customer TVRO system. The unit optionally outputs Baseband Video out or channel RF out . The unit includes an 8 bit microprocessor 100 64 bytes of code ROM 101 512 K of RAM for program data storage a custom gate array segmented base registers for fast memory data manipulation security logic for decoding incoming encrypted data a serial bus for display controller interface serial bus for inter processor communication watchdog timer for error recovery IR input IR transmitter circuits for TV VCR control IR output CRC 32 encoding and decoding logic on board power supply video input On Screen Display Controller and Formatter custom color converter RF modulator choice of Baseband Video or RF outputs or .

The on screen display controller and formatter OSDCF functions as an I O controller an on screen display controller OSD and also as a closed caption data CCD VBI data slicer. The VBI vertical blanking interval is a dead space in a TV signal that allows a television signal to reposition the scanning electron beam from the bottom to the top of the screen. Digital data for example close captioned data is modulated onto the carrier signal during the VBI.

The OSDCF includes an analog to digital convertor ADC which digitizes the incoming baseband video and extracts digital information transmitted in the VBIs. As explained more fully below messages for transmission to the database are transmitted in the VBIs. These messages are transferred to the processor which executes a data base engine process to build or update the database.

The OSD part of the OSDCF includes cache memory character memory timing functions and an external RAM. The OSD reads high level graphic commands sent from the processor and stores graphic information in the RAM. The OSD outputs red R green G blue B graphic data which is used to generate a local video signal. Depending on the state of the user input interface described below the OSD local video output or the incoming live video will be displayed.

Accordingly screen display graphic data generated by the database engine is transferred to the RAM of the OSD which the generates a local video signal that causes the display screen to be displayed on the television screen.

The DBE builds a hierarchical database in the RAM. The hierarchical structure of the database is depicted in . The database is structured internally as schedule data structures and theme data structures linked by handles and handle tables. Each handle is an index to a handle table which contains pointers to blocks of memory where structures of the database are stored.

A channel data table depicted in is the highest data structure in the hierarchy. This table includes an entry for each channel received by the subscriber unit. The entries in the channel data table are changed infrequently and are determined by the location of the subscriber unit and type of services received. Each channel data table entry includes information concerning the channel and a handle to a show list handle table for the channel.

The next data structure in the hierarchy is the show list depicted in . The show list includes a start time typically being midnight GMT and 24 hours of scheduling. The channel s schedule is given by an ordered sequence of show slots with a show slot for each show to be broadcast by a particular channel for a particular day. Each slot includes a duration show title handle and show description handle. Finding an entry corresponding to a given start time requires the entries to be scanned in order from the beginning of show list and adding duration values.

The database when fully constructed holds a weeks worth of show lists for each channel. The days of the week are accessed by incrementing the show list handle by two bytes. The show lists are updated each day at midnight GMT with the show list for the day just completed being deleted and the show list for same day next week being added to the database.

The next data structures in the schedule hierarchy are the show title entries depicted in and show description entries depicted in . For a given show slot the show title entry and show description entry are accessed utilizing the handles included in the slot. The show title and show description entries are stored in a memory pool divided into blocks. Each show title is identified by a unique 20 bit show identification number SID and each show description is identified by a unique 20 bit number assigned at the head end. The show title handles are based on the SID and the show title handles are offsets into a show title handle table. The entry in the show title table accessed by a particular show title handle includes the address of the first block in the memory pool where the show title entry is stored. Similarly the show description handle table entry accessed by a show description handle stores the address of the first block in the memory pool where the show description entry is stored.

Each show title entry includes theme index ID and the text of the show title. Typically a single show title entry will be referenced by many show lists for different channels days and times. Thus by utilizing handles in the show lists all show lists reference a single show title entry in memory so that memory is efficiently used. Many show title entries have a long life because the show titles may be for series that are broadcast over long periods of time and may be referenced by many showlists since many shows are broadcast by multiple channels.

Each show description entry includes a theme index ID critics rating MPAA rating for the show traits mask bits year produced and show description text. Show description entries tend to have a shorter life than show title entries because a description is only valid for a particular episode of a series.

To obtain schedule information for a particular time and to display the schedule information in the programming grid requires the following steps. For each channel in the channel list the show list for the day is accessed and scanned. Horizontal blocks for the channel are sized according to the duration of the show slots including and following the selected time. The show title entry referenced by each show slot is accessed and the show title is displayed in the horizontal block corresponding to the show slot.

Referring back to every entry in the channel data table includes a FAVORITE LINK field. This field includes a link to a next favorite channel and is utilized to form an ordered linked list of channels in an order determined by the user.

The user interface and database engine provide screens to facilitate the ordering and selection of channels to be displayed in the guide. A link to the first channel in an ordered channel list is stored in memory. This link is utilized to access the channel table entry for the most favorite channel. The FAVORITE LINK in that channel is accessed and utilized to access the channel table entry for the next favorite channel and so on until a designated delimiter value e.g. 0x00 indicates the end of the favorite channel list.

The capability of having more than one favorites list can be supported by having multiple FAVORITE LINK fields stored in each channel table entry.

A powerful feature of the database is the ability to group shows by theme. The theme IDs stored in the show title and show description entries are utilized to match particular shows to particular themes. For example a viewer may want to see a listing of all comedy movies.

Each primary category movies in the example above has a theme category entry included in a theme category table depicted in . A theme category entry includes a theme category ID a handle for the subcategory handle table and the theme category name. The theme category ID is used identify theme sub categories comedy in the example above for this primary category.

There is a theme sub category table depicted in for each primary category. The table contains entries for each theme sub category contained in a primary theme category. Each table entry includes the theme IDs corresponding to the sub category entry and the name of the sub category.

When the viewer initiates a search for a particular type of show for example a comedy movie each channel is inspected and theme IDs of each show listed are compared to theme IDs stored in the comedy entry of the theme sub category table corresponding to the movie primary category entry. Information about shows with matching theme IDs is stored in a theme search data structure in a user interface local buffer.

The theme search function requires two calls to the database. The first of these calls initializes the theme search data structure to the first show that matches the theme category for a specific channel entry including the shows time offset from the search time. The second call will then find the next matching show after a particular offset time updating the theme search data structure and returning the offset to the next show.

An ad list data structure is similar to the show list. It includes a start time and 24 hours of ad scheduling. The ad list is regionalized and includes an ad slot for each ad to be broadcast for a given day. The ad slot includes a duration and an Ad ID utilized to access an ad entry.

Each add entry includes an ad banner text field an ad text field and a pointer to an ad logo if appropriate. The ad logo includes a graphics file to be displayed with the ad.

The data base is built by a data base engine software module operating on the processor. Messages comprising discrete commands are received by the database engine. Examples of commands include a Region Command which specifies channels available for a particular subscriber unit to be included in the Channel Data Table a Channel Data command including information utilized to form the entries in the Channel Data Table and Showlist Show Title and Show Description commands including SIDs and DIDs referencing areas in memory. The database engine selects only Showlist Commands relevant to channels included in the Channel Table for further processing.

The data base engine creates storage locations in memory for all SIDs and DIDs included in any Showlist. Information included in commands having matching SIDs or DIDs is written to the referenced memory area. In practice the SIDs and DIDs are processed by a hashing system for more efficient searching.

The messages may be transmitted to a subscriber unit in various ways. A system for receiving messages in the VBIs of broadcast programming has been described above. In a DBS system the messages may be transmitted in a dedicated bit stream.

In a DBS system video baseband signals are digitized compressed and modulated onto an analog carrier signals. Because of advances in the art of compression a carrier once used to transmit a single program can now transmit four programs. Typically in addition to video signals other bitstreams encoding information such as audio VBI vertical blanking information data such as closed caption and teletext program guide information and conditional access information are provided as separate bitstreams multiplexed into a composite bit stream and modulated onto a carrier signal.

Alternatively the database itself may be transmitted in a digital data stream. For example in DSS the program guide information is transmitted in block of 3 hours of programming for 36 channels. Programming is digitally modulated onto different bands. As depicted in a satellite has several transponders simultaneously transmitting on different bands. Several channels can be modulated onto a single band utilizing digital compression techniques. A bit stream including the current programming is carried by all bands. However future programming for different blocks of channels is transmitted on different bands. The blocks are transmitted in as a carousel or endless loop so that there may be a delay before a particular time band is received.

A decoder at the viewers location receives 16 carriers and controls a tuner demodulator to select one carrier. The carrier is sampled decoded error corrected and demultiplexed to separate the various bit streams. The decoder includes video decoder chips decompress compressed video to reconstruct pictures of virtually any size.

When the viewer accesses the guide the block for that time period is loaded into memory so that the user can interact with the guide. For a future time and different channel there may be a time delay. For example if the current programming block were B and the block currently received is B the user must wait for blocks B B and B to be transmitted before the current programming can be received and displayed. The viewer would wait for a time delay equal to the sum of time durations for transmitting each block i.e. d d d. If the program guide block is modulated onto a different band the cable box must tune to the band and wait until the desired block is transmitted on the carousel. So if the guide is accessed for future programming there could be a delay.

For cable the database is built at the SST head end and sent over land lines to the cable head end. Cable company sends data anyway it wants VBIs satellite digital etc.

The user interface takes remote control commands as its primary input. In one embodiment a user requests various functions by pressing function buttons on a remote control. In another embodiment the GUI is utilized with different interactive regions on a displayed screen corresponding to different functions. The user moves the cursor over the interactive region corresponding to a desired function and selects the function to generate command. The particular form of entering a command is not critical and technology for utilizing voice commands may soon be available.

The user interface receives commands and responds with a requested display screen and by performing the function requested by the command. The function performed may be to perform an action such as recording a program tuning to a channel accessing a related internet site purchasing a pay per view program or purchasing merchandise. The data and format of each screen is dependent on the previous screen time of day the contents of the data base the command received and other parameters. A state table is used to define the screen flow.

For every defined screen there is an entrance function an exit function an update function and an array of request handling functions. The entrance function is called when a state is first entered to collect all necessary data and format the screen. The exit function is called to release memory and data for the screen. The update function is called once per minute to update the screen time and to re draw the screen if any information displayed on the screen needs to be updated.

Once in a particular state the table contains a reference to another software function corresponding to each key on the remote control or to each interactive region on the screen. These referenced functions will be executed whenever an associated remote control button is pressed or interactive region is selected.

For example if the user wishes to record a program in the GUI embodiment the viewer moves the cursor over the record interactive region which is then selected to request that the recording function be performed. A confirmation screen will then be generated. Once the user confirms the recording request an entry is made in a recording queue. A record daemon is then called from the real time executive to examine the queue and manage recording functions.

The screens are displayed by the on screen display OSD controller based on graphic display commands issued by the database engine. Among the primitive commands need to draw system display screens are the Erase Screen Command Draw Rectangle Command Save Rectangle Command Restore Rectangle Command Move Rectangle Commands Write ASCII String Command and Draw Channel Icon Command.

Each screen includes areas that are constant and based on code and data stored in non volatile memory and variable areas such as show titles and descriptions which utilize data stored in the database. As described above in the description of the database engine the database is structured to facilitate efficient searching for information generally in the form of ASCII text strings stored in the database. Additionally graphics files are also being stored in the database to be displayed in windows of the display screen.

The available data displayed on television can emulate what a computer on line user normally sees when accessing the internet through a personal computer. This television schedule data can also be further enhanced to tie into the televisions show that the user is viewing. Alternatively accessory may be replaced by accessory which is attached to set top box e.g. a cable box . The data provided via the on line information provider is then transmitted to television over line . Similarly accessory attached to VCR can be used to obtain the television schedule data. The data would then be transmitted from VCR to television over line .

In another embodiment the database with the television schedule information is located in memory within television . Controller is used to obtain the data from memory so that it can be displayed on television . Alternatively the database with the television schedule information could be located in memory within set top box or in memory within VCR . Controller or controller would be used to obtain the data which would then be sent to television for display via line or line . Therefore the technology that enables the television schedule information to be provided from a database to a television for display is not specific to any given data system. In summary this technology can be resident in the user s set top box television VCR personal computer or the like.

The television schedule information provided from a database can be used to provide information which is independent of the viewer s program choice. For example from a television schedule guide the user can utilize remote control to press a Services button. This Services button can be located on remote control or within the television schedule guide display. When the Services button is pressed the user is given choices such as News Weather Sports Scores Financial Data Local Traffic etc. Using remote control the user can then select the area or title of interest and the associated information from the database is provided. If accessory is used a modem accesses the on line service which provides the information from the database. Once this connection is made the user has two way communication with the on line service provider. The user can then go deeper into the given selections or if requested and keyboard is available can access the Internet and enter chat rooms or other interactive services. In the preferred embodiment keyboard is either an IR keyboard or connected to port on accessory .

In yet another embodiment a television program title and or a program s content is contextually linked to an on line service or to an available database. In this arrangement a user in conjunction with the data made available through an electronic program guide or navigational system can link search select and or initiate a subscription to more information relating to specific areas of interest or concerns associated with a program or a programs title. In the preferred embodiment a user of an electronic program guide e.g. as described above can conduct a search for information about a particular program television show or for information relating to the show the actors the actresses the show s theme other broadcast times or sources and other related information through selection via a user interface. This linking of program title and or program content to additional related information could be operable whenever a program title is accessible in a electronic program guide. Additionally this linking could be available whenever a user requests it via the currently tuned program.

For example a user previewing the program such as a movie e.g. Casablanca can receive information regarding 1 the actors and actresses in that movie 2 other movies released during the same time period 3 associated available products 4 related travel packages and 5 advertisements and promotions available through primary secondary or third party vendors other broadcast times or sources. Utilizing a user interface such as remote control or keyboard the user can indicate to the electronic program guide what information they would like to view on television . The electronic program guide then lists a selection of choices for the user. In the preferred embodiment the choices are associated with the context of the selected program and can be changed via the electronic program guide supplier. In the Casablanca example the choices might be 1 Other Humphrey Bogart Movies 2 Other Lauren Bacall Movies 3 Other Movies Released in the Same Era or 4 Associated Products other broadcast times or sources. The user selects from the presented choices and the electronic program guide contacts and communicates with the database of available information for more detailed information relating to the user s choice. Once contact and communication is established between the user and the database of available television information the electronic program guide acts as an agent to assure that the information flow and appropriate data is exchanged. At this point the user can delve deeper into the available information by selecting from a series of further choices or related topics. For example if the user chooses 1 Other Humphrey Bogart Movies option the electronic program guide contacts and communicates with the selected database of available information. The database of available information is then used to collect the requested data of other Humphrey Bogart movies. The selected choice is transmitted and used by the electronic program guide as its contextual reference for the search. A list with the search results is then displayed on television .

Once the user sees the list of broadcast times or sources for Casablanca or other Humphrey Bogart movies the user can select any of the available titles for recording or watching or digital storage when digital program directories libraries or archival sources are available. In the preferred embodiment each time the available database is contacted and searched previously selected movies can be identified. In addition a user can select certain types of programs to be recorded watched or retrieved for digital storage before any particular program is available to the electronic program guide. Moreover each time a connection is made to an on line service the software can search the database and set the selected types of programs to be recorded and or retrieved for digital storage. These features enable a consumer to never miss a favorite program.

The system and method of the present invention may be configured to automatically or manually customize the television schedule guide to an individual viewer or a group of viewers e.g. a family. In this embodiment the remote control device may be used to select certain programs and a memory stores the television programs that have been selected by the viewer. The programs can be selected for a variety of reasons such as a designation of the program as a favorite placing a reminder to watch the program or when the television schedule system includes a recording device placing an automatic reminder to the program guide to record the program or when the television schedule system includes a means of digital storage automatically downloading or providing an easy confirmation process for downloading the program. The user may also customize specific preferences based on a program title. Through a series of repetitive operations the electronic program guide can select programs titles or services that the user would likely be interested in. This can be accomplished through a user interface wherein the user answers preference or choice questions or through heuristic learning accomplished through the electronic program guide. The electronic program guide would include software for performing this customization.

In an exemplary embodiment the system includes a database containing each program within the television schedule and or listing information. The database may be included within a computer integrally combined with the television e.g. PCTV a computer that is coupled to the television through suitable lines or the database may be accessed from a remote computer e.g. via the internet or other communication medium. Within the database each program is associated with a variety of criteria or features such as particular actors actresses directors the type of movie e.g. action comedy and the like. When the viewer selects a program as a favorite for example he or she will have the option of designating the criteria or reason s that the program is a favorite i.e. actor director etc. . The computer will include a processor and suitable software for automatically searching the database for other programs having the same criteria. The processor will automatically place the programs that include the designated criteria into the selection window and provide visual indication of each program in the matrix of cells in the program guide. In this way the program guide will automatically customize itself to the individual viewer to facilitate use of the television schedule. A more detailed description of this method can be found in commonly assigned co pending Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 015 648 filed on Apr. 19 1996 the complete disclosure of which has previously been incorporated by reference.

In another embodiment of the invention the system will automatically record television programs that are listed as a user s favorite or in some other category i.e. contextual recording . In this embodiment a user identifies to the system or the system automatically identifies favorite subject matters actors actresses etc as described in detail above. For example the user may input into the system that he she would like to add Jerry Seinfeld to the favorites list. Thereafter the system tags any program it finds where Jerry Seinfeld is involved i.e. he is a guest on the Tonight Show . In addition to tagging the show according to this embodiment of the invention the system will automatically program the VCR or similar recording device to record any or all of the shows with that tag. The user may then view the contextually recorded programs at any time he or she desires. Thus the system will constantly search for any show that includes Jerry Seinfeld and record that show episode or only the portion of the show that involves Jerry Seinfeld. The user will then have a list of all the shows or some of the shows that feature Jerry Seinfeld and can view these shows at his or her leisure.

In the embodiment of the present invention shown in two programs provided at the same time can be automatically recorded because two VCRs and are present. The user need only select two programs for recording and the present invention will automatically cause the programs to be recorded when they are aired in an unattended fashion. The user can also directly select which device or devices will be recording or tuning for each selected program. For additional information see commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 151 789 to Young the complete disclosure of which has previously been incorporated by reference.

The user can further access the internet by choosing Network from the guide using the user interface. Cable modem accesses the internet and once connection is made the user has two way communication with on line service providers. The user can then access the different on line services. For example a user viewing a sporting event may press the Services button and a different menu will appear with the following choices 1 Sports Scores 2 Current Game Statistics 3 Current Player Statistics and 4 Associated Products. If the user selects 4 Associated Products the software will notify the cable modem and instruct the cable modem to establish connection with an on line service provider. The on line service provider then lists a series of selections associated with the game e.g. 49er s hats Giant s Baseball Bats from Louisville Slugger Nike Spiked Football shoes for Pop Warner etc. and the user can interact with the service provider accordingly.

In one embodiment the computer network includes a plurality of servers and a database . The database includes television schedule information which may be retrieved and viewed on PCTV . Servers represent file servers having files databases or the like. In a representative embodiment the computer network is the World Wide Web and each server is set up as a network file server addressable by a unique address. For example the servers may be configured to follow a common network protocol such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and the Internet Protocol IP commonly referred to collectively as TCP IP and may be assigned a unique IP address or internet domain name. For example the servers may be assigned the domain name invoice.com . The servers may also have some form of server software installed to permit the system to function as an internet graphics server. For example the servers may be configured with HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP server software to permit the system is to function as an internet world wide web WWW server. In this embodiment PCTV may access servers via the WWW using WWW compatible software by indicating the system s uniform resource locator address HTTP www.invoice.com .

In another embodiment the television schedule guide not shown is stored as one or more files e.g. a websites or internet broadcast transmitters on one of the servers which can be accessed by any viewer having access to the World Wide Web. The television schedule guide or website may be configured for viewing and interacting with television information directly on line or it may be configured for downloading the information into a computer hard drive or other suitable processor. The guide will provide listings information for all channels in the viewer s local cable line up. Preferably the guide will be capable of creating personalized TV listings with search and sort features discussed below that allow the viewer to call up favorite programming choices based on categories such as channel day actor movie genre or other desired categories. The guide may also include other information about programs such as ratings stars type of movie e.g. suspense comedy drama western musical children biography horror etc. . This information may be provided on the actual website and or internet broadcast transmitter or the website and or internet broadcast transmitter may provide means for linking the viewer with other websites and or internet broadcast transmitter to provide more information on certain topics and categories.

Since the television guide website and or internet broadcast transmitter may be accessed from virtually any location in the world it will preferably include a mechanism for selecting a region from which the television guide is applicable. For example the television guide may include television schedule and or listing information from a variety of countries throughout the world or the information guide may be limited to the United States. To obtain television schedule information for a particular region the user can select an appropriate state city or other region such as a region covered by a particular cable company. Alternatively the television schedule guide may provide information for certain networks and stations instead of particular channels or stations such as CBS FOX HBO and the like that are global to all regions of the country. With this configuration the television guide may include a time zone selection so that the guide can automatically be configured for the particular time zone in which the user will watch television.

In one embodiment of the present invention the system will include a search engine that allows the viewer to search for particular types of programs that will be broadcast within a certain period of time. The search engine may include categories such as title description category dates day parts channels actor actresses directors etc. In addition the viewer may obtain more information on the programs within each category. For example the guide could provide information on movies in many categories including theatrical made for TV movies Spanish French etc. The guide can tell you what Clint Eastwood movies are on this week how many StarTrek episodes this weekend or whether your favorite basketball team is on TV this Saturday. The on line viewer may customize their own listings by title year actors director run themes critical star rating MPAA warning lines video laser disc full descriptions genre and holidays with themes. In another example the guide could provide information on shows and series including network shows first run British PBS cult favorites syndicated shows talk shows local productions and obscure programs. The user may sort by for example title episode run times genre original air date etc.

In another aspect of the invention the web site television guide will include a highlight section that highlights particular programs that will be broadcast during the day week or month. For example the guide may have a web page that picks a hot pick for each day of the week and provides a picture or video together with descriptive information such as an editorial comment on the video hot pick. In addition the user may be able to move to other areas where more information can be provided on particular moves such as articles interviews with actors actresses editor s choice reviews commentaries etc.

In another aspect of the invention the system will include a variety of files on the same or different network servers that allow the user to interact with other users program sponsors advertisers etc. For example the system may have a web site that allows viewers to chat about certain programs each program itself may have its own web site . In addition the system may include a virtual agent that searches existing websites and or internet broadcast transmitter on the internet and points to websites and or internet broadcast transmitters that may interest the viewer. The virtual agent will learn from previous user choices to customize the television guide for each particular viewer.

PCTV may include a memory and a processor with appropriate software not shown for searching and retrieving information from databases on the Internet based on user selections. Alternatively this function may be provided through Internet television guide database or through the commercial provider or broadcaster . In this embodiment PCTV may access download and or automatically upgrade an application or applet e.g. a Java applet having the appropriate software to run the television schedule guide on a display e.g. a computer monitor television display or other user interface.

In one example the viewer is watching a sports event such as a football game. One or more icons or other visual indicators are located on the television screen in a convenient location such as the top right corner. One of these icons may be an icon that represents the television schedule guide. The viewer can move a cursor or other visual indicator to the television guide icon and click thereon to open up the television guide as discussed in detail below. Another icon may be provided for example by a commercial sponsor. Moving into and activating this icon allows the viewer to link with a database provided by the commercial sponsor or to a portion of the television schedule guide database that allows the viewer to purchase an advertised product make a monetary contribution respond to a survey answer a question or participating in contests with other viewers for example.

By way of example Budweiser may provide a database that allows the viewer to purchase a coupon for a free six pack or other items such as Budweiser T shirts hats etc. The viewer may purchase the coupon hats or T shirts directly through the commercial sponsor or through a delivery system provided by the television schedule guide discussed in detail below . This type of advertising allows the advertiser to directly target a particular program and it allows the viewer to directly purchase the products during the advertisement. In addition viewers will not forget the advertisement or simply lose motivation to spend money or request information after the commercial or program is over.

In another example the television network that is broadcasting the program may provide an icon that allows the viewer to access a database providing more information about the football game previews of upcoming programs related to the program such as another football game later on in the week or other products and services related to the football game.

As shown in program guide preferably includes a schedule information area having a program matrix of cells or items that depict the shows that are being presented on each channel at each time during the day. Program guide conveniently lists the channels in a vertical column to the left of the program matrix and the times in a horizontal row above matrix . As shown the viewer may vertically scroll through a particular time or horizontally scroll through a channel with the remote control device. As the viewer scrolls through matrix a cursor will indicate the user s location within the matrix . Alternatively the item may be automatically highlighted with a brighter color to indicate the viewer s location. Preferably program matrix will also be shaded to indicate the portion of each show that has already been presented. For example as shown in the shading extends to 7 48 the current time as indicated at the bottom right of program guide to indicate which portion of the show the viewer has already missed.

As shown in program guide preferably includes a schedule information area having a program matrix of cells or items that depict the shows that are being presented on each channel at each time during the day. Program guide conveniently lists the channels in a vertical column to the left of the program matrix and the times in a horizontal row above matrix . As shown the viewer may vertically scroll through a particular time or horizontally scroll through a channel with the remote control device. As the viewer scrolls through matrix a cursor will indicate the user s location within the matrix . Alternatively the item may be automatically highlighted with a brighter color to indicate the viewer s location. Preferably program matrix will also be shaded to indicate the portion of each show that has already been presented. For example as shown in the shading extends to 7 48 the current time as indicated at the bottom right of program guide to indicate which portion of the show the viewer has already missed.

As shown in program guide includes a number of other information areas. For example program guide includes a mode menu area that indicates the currently active mode i.e. program guide and allows the viewer to pull down a mode menu see . Program guide also includes a date area that indicates the date reflected in program matrix and allows the viewer to pull down a date submenu to change the date. In other submodes the submode menu will display options for ordering or displaying lists that are appropriately related to the submode. A proportional scroll bar located to the left of program matrix is visually proportional to the total information in program matrix to provide visual feedback as the user vertically scrolls through matrix . In addition scroll bar may be used for large scale movement through hundreds of channels sources by navigating to bar and then vertically moving bar . An exit area allows the viewer to immediately exit back to the television by navigating to exit area and clicking on the remote control device. A program area depicts the currently tuned program and a preview window area can be used for all types of promotional descriptional or contextual video or graphics such as a short preview of the show that is currently being highlighted in show matrix . Preview window area may also be interactional similar to the other areas of guide .

The program guide may also include a variety of additional areas to facilitate use of the television schedule system present information to the viewer or advertise programs or other products. For example a scrolling commercial message may be located underneath program matrix that advertises programs or products from program sponsors etc. The viewer may navigate to message to receive more information or to purchase the product or program.

This function of ordering items is not limited to videos. For example the program may access other contextual linked services such as a commercial store etc. to allow the purchaser to buy a wide variety of different services or goods directly or indirectly linked to a particular program. For example an Info Menu for Monday Night Football may allow the viewer to scroll through submenus that allow the viewer to purchase Washington Redskins caps Minnesota Vikings caps or any NFL cap. The viewer has a choice to follow a program s link back to the commercial area where a larger selection of items and services are available. A product like the cap above may lead the viewer directly to an NFL proshop whereas a link to a movie on demand may lead back to a commercial film library.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in detail for purposes of clarity it will be obvious that certain modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. For example the viewer can automatically tune to a desired program or can select different programs for automatic recording. For more information on automatic tuning and automatic recording see U.S. Pat. No. B1 4 706 121 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 423 411 this patent and this patent application are like the present patent application assigned to Starsight Telecast Inc. U.S. Pat. No. B1 4 706 121 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 423 411 are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

It should be also noted that the present invention is not limited to a television schedule as shown in the enclosed figures. For example in another embodiment of the invention a program listing is provided that lists a series of television programs that are available for viewing. This listing can include for example a list of movies that are available in a movie library that can be accessed and viewed by the user e.g. the Turner Classics Film Library or Pay Per View programs such as sporting events or movies . Alternatively the program listings can be related to digital programming. In this aspect of the invention the television program is available to access or download for an extended period of time rather than being scheduled as a single live event. Thus a digital archive of movies program shows or previously played sporting events can be available to the user. This digital archive may be available through a database directly coupled to the electronic program guide or on a remote database such as the World Wide Web Internet or the like. In this embodiment the television guide may be used to both 1 show when the television programs are first available to the user i.e. a schedule and 2 list the shows that have been digitally recorded and therefore are available to the user at any time.

In one example of this embodiment a Jerry Seinfeld fan can browse through a list of previously played Jerry Seinfeld episodes. The episodes can be arranged chronologically by subject matter or other convenient methods. Upon reaching one of the episodes in the list the user may then find out more information about the episode such as a brief abstract on the episode when it was first made available to the public etc. Alternatively the user may contextually link with other databases such as the Internet or World Wide Web to find out more information about the program e.g. chat with other Jerry Seinfeld fans read reviews on that particular episode etc If the user wishes to play or record the episode the user may do so by the methods described above.

