---

title: Miniaturized satellite transceiver
abstract: Described is a miniaturized satellite transceiver for communicating with a Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite and a communications satellite. The miniaturized satellite transceiver includes an integrated GPS receiver configured to receive communications from the GPS satellite, a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications from the communications satellite, and an operating system. The miniaturized satellite transceiver is installable in a hand-held device, a mobile satellite transceiver system, or an in-flight transceiver and locator system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07667643&OS=07667643&RS=07667643
owner: Comtech Mobile Datacom Corporation
number: 07667643
owner_city: Germantown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070314
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 592 008 filed Nov. 2 2006 which claims priority to and the benefit of provisional U.S. patent application No. 60 733 268 filed Nov. 2 2005. In addition this application claims priority to and the benefit of and incorporates herein by reference in their entirety provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 782 151 filed Mar. 14 2006 and provisional U.S. patent application No. 60 816 819 filed Jun. 27 2006.

The present invention relates generally to satellite transceiver systems and specifically to miniaturized satellite transceivers.

The increased mobility of individuals transports and supplies has been accompanied with an increase in the value of the knowledge regarding the location of the individuals transports and supplies. Devices that receive signals from Global Positioning System GPS satellites are generally available to members of the public. The GPS receivers generally inform the individual holding the unit of his location on Earth but these GPS receivers do not typically transmit the location of the individual. Thus the coordinates are useful to the individual but not to someone that wants to find the individual.

Systems used by the armed forces for transporting goods supplies and materials e.g. logistic systems may have access to radio transmitters to report the location of vehicles and or units to headquarters. When manually coupled with a GPS receiver an individual in a unit can inform headquarters of his or her position by orally relaying the coordinates via radio.

Similarly corporations may have systems in place to track cargo transports. The transports can manually report location information to a corporate operations center or they may utilize point of reception reporting. The point of reception reporting includes updating the location of a good or supply when the item is processed by an intermediate facility.

Since mobility is increasing it is important for individuals the military and corporations to be able to track and report the location and status of vehicles individuals and cargo back to others. The size of the separate components of the communication system however and the awkwardness of the manual combination of the components by an operator make it infeasible to efficiently utilize GPS technology to track and transmit locations and status information back to others. These technologies lack a unified arrangement of the separate components that maximizes and incorporates each of their respective functionalities while simultaneously reducing the space required to carry or incorporate them.

Though GPS receivers and transmitters are useful for determining and reporting the location of a vehicle they are not generally useful for further communications e.g. reporting vehicle status operator status or if cargo has been delivered lost and or damaged. The present invention addresses shortcomings of the prior art.

In one implementation there is a miniaturized satellite transceiver for communicating with a Global Positioning System satellite and a communications satellite. The miniaturized satellite transceiver includes an integrated Global Positioning System GPS receiver configured to receive communications from the GPS satellite a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications from the communications satellite and an operating system for controlling the operation of the GPS receiver and the satellite modem. Beneficially the communications sent from the miniaturized satellite transceiver can include GPS information received from the GPS satellite such as the GPS coordinates and or location of the miniaturized satellite transceiver. Though reference is made herein to communicating with a single GPS satellite often communications with multiple GPS satellites are required to determine a receiver s location. Therefore references made herein referring to communicating with a single GPS satellite are understood to include communications with one or more GPS satellites.

In some implementations there is a method for communicating between a transport unit and an Earth station via a communications satellite. The method includes begins by providing a miniaturized satellite transceiver. The miniaturized satellite transceiver typically includes an integrated GPS receiver configured to receive communications from a GPS satellite a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications from the communications satellite and an operating system for controlling the operation of the GPS receiver and the satellite modem. The method also involves creating by the operating system a communications transmission packet. The communications packet is sent via the satellite modem to the communications satellite. The communications packet is then sent from the communications satellite to the Earth station.

In some versions the miniaturized satellite transceiver is installable in a handheld device thereby providing location status and or reporting capabilities to an individual such as a soldier in a small form factor that is easily portable. In some implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver is installable in a mobile satellite transceiver system and or an in flight transceiver and locator system for providing location status and or reporting capabilities for a vehicle such as a transport truck or a helicopter respectively.

In some implementations a mobile satellite transceiver system that incorporates a miniaturized satellite transceiver is used for communicating with a Global Positioning System GPS satellite and a communications satellite. The miniaturized satellite transceiver includes a GPS receiver configured to receive communications from the GPS satellite a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications from the communications satellite and an operating system for controlling the GPS receiver and the satellite modem. In some implementations the operating system of the mobile satellite transceiver system is configured to send and receive text messages to from the communications satellite via the satellite modem and to communicate with the miniaturized satellite transceiver. Typically the mobile satellite transceiver system is attached to a vehicle e.g. a truck or transport vehicle via screws or a magnetic mounting bracket thus providing the transport with position and status reporting capabilities. In some versions of the mobile satellite transceiver system an RFID interrogator is coupled to or incorporated into the mobile transceiver system. In these embodiments a communications packet transmitted from the miniaturized satellite transceiver optionally includes RFID data. The RFID data includes for example the presence of a particular RFID tag in the area interrogated by the RFID interrogator. In some implementations of the mobile satellite transceiver system the GPS receiver of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is not utilized and instead an additional Ground Based GPS Receiver Application Module GB GRAM with a Selective Availability Anti Spoofing Module SAASM communicates with GPS satellites. Some versions of the mobile satellite transceiver system additionally provide a memory buffer of at least 512 kilobytes.

In some implementations an in flight transceiver system that incorporates the miniaturized satellite transceiver allows for communicating information securely at a high data rate between an in flight unit and a ground unit. The in flight transceiver system includes an antenna a miniaturized satellite transceiver housed in an aviation box conforming to a one half half short Air Transport Rack ATR form factor and a switch between the aviation box and the antenna for controlling a data signal between the antenna and the miniaturized satellite transceiver. In some implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver includes an integrated GPS receiver configured to receive communications from the GPS satellite a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications from the communications satellite and an operating system. In some versions the in flight transceiver system further includes a signal booster between the aviation box and the antenna. In some implementations the antenna is located outside a body of an aviation platform e.g. the body of an aircraft and the aviation box is located inside the body of the aviation platform. In some versions the antenna is fin shaped. In some implementations the antenna is a dual pole antenna and or is an omni directional antenna. The information is for example communicated bidirectionally between the in flight unit and the ground unit. In some implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver is assigned unique radio identifier and there is a customizable node name is associated with the unique radio identifier.

Any implementations of the miniaturized satellite transceiver or mobile satellite transceiver systems or in flight transceiver and locator systems that incorporate the miniaturized satellite transceiver are operable using L Band communications channels such as MSAT INMARSAT Thuraya Artemis ACeS and or OPTUS or any combination thereof thereby providing communications beyond line of sight. Beneficially some versions of the miniaturized satellite transceiver also include a Left Hand Circular Polarized antenna connection and a Right Hand Circular Polarized antenna connection for receiving and or sending communication bearing signals with the respective polarizations.

Communications sent from and received by the miniaturized satellite transceiver typically include the location of the miniaturized satellite transceiver based on Global Positioning System GPS coordinates received from GPS satellites text messages Voice over Packet VoP communications and or RFID data where a RFID interrogator is provided . Beneficially the communications may also be location data maps photos video task orders targeting data computer programs software cryptographic keys provisioning files and or other communications. Advantageously the miniaturized satellite transceiver transmits data and receives data at rates between 660 bits per second bps and about 21 000 bps while consuming as low as 6.5 volts direct current. Typically the communications are controlled by the miniaturized satellite transceiver s operating system and communications are sent to and received from the communications satellite via the miniaturized satellite transceiver s satellite modem.

In some implementations of the miniaturized satellite transceiver or mobile satellite transceiver systems or in flight transceiver and locator systems that incorporate the miniaturized satellite transceiver the miniaturized satellite transceiver is Blue Force Tracking capable e.g. data communications are sent over a Blue Force Tracking network. Beneficially some of these implementations are operable to send and receive Voice over Packet transmissions over Blue Force Tracking satellite channels via the satellite modem of the miniaturized satellite transceiver. In some aspects transmissions and received signals are encrypted using Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithms Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithms and or Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithms.

Any of the implementations aspects and examples above can provide one or more of the following advantages. One advantage of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is that portability is improved because the transceiver integrates both a GPS receiver and the miniaturized satellite transceiver into a single unit. For an individual a single handheld unit provides the functionality previously obtained requiring multiple separate devices. For vehicles system efficiency is improved by reducing the number of communications devices while simultaneously reducing the footprint required by the communications devices.

Another advantage of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is reception sensitivity is increased and multiple forms of signal reception e.g. GPS satellite communications over RHCP and or LHCP antennas are provided. Yet another advantage of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is the transceiver can easily be integrated into networked messaging systems allowing for real time or near real time communications between units e.g. individuals or transport units in the field and headquarters or operations centers. Another advantage of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is produceability can be improved e.g. the transceiver is more cost effective and cheaper to manufacture .

The miniaturized satellite transceiver described herein can be incorporated into a networked messaging system that can send messages over the Internet and or via satellite communications channels. The miniaturized satellite transceiver includes a satellite modem to communicate with communications satellites in Earth s orbit. The miniaturized satellite transceiver also includes a GPS receiver on board the transceiver so no additional and or separate GPS modules are typically necessary. The miniaturized satellite transceiver can be installed in hand held devices but alternatively the miniaturized satellite modem can be incorporated into mobile satellite transceiver systems and or in flight transceiver and locator systems.

Implementations of a messaging system that incorporates the miniaturized satellite transceiver provide near real time communication services via satellite between a transceiver be it handheld or connected attached to a vehicle and a ground unit. The ground unit can for example be an Earth station or headquarters. In other examples the ground unit can be any ground sea and or air based unit. Advantageously the near real time communications include but are not limited to position reporting vehicle status operator status cargo status voice over packet communications and or text messaging. To determine the position of the miniaturized satellite transceiver it typically incorporates commercial grade GPS capabilities and antenna s . Beneficially for military applications or general data security some implementations also provide built in encryption mechanisms to secure communications sent between the vehicle or handheld device and headquarters. By incorporating encryption into the device as opposed to using an external encryption device or module the overall space used on a vehicle or handheld device i.e. the footprint is reduced. For individuals such as an armed forces soldier it is especially beneficial to carry one device that does the work of two to reduce the communications equipment and correspondingly the weight the individual must carry.

Several enclosure embodiments exist for the miniaturized satellite transceiver. The miniaturized satellite transceiver can for example be housed within a clamshell metal housing to shield the transceiver from Radio Frequency RF interference. Alternatively the miniaturized satellite transceiver can be housed with a metal or plastic housing designed to withstand the rigors of battlefield use usually with additional components e.g. an RFID interrogator . In some embodiments the miniaturized satellite transceiver is housed in an aviation box mounted in an aircraft typically occupying no more than a one half short ATR form factor approximately six 6 inches . A description of how a miniaturized satellite transceiver is utilized in a messaging system is illustrative.

The satellite sends the communication signals down to the intended targets e.g. commercial transport trucks personnel carriers trains air vehicles not shown and or sea vehicles not shown and or network management centers where the communication signals are received by the miniaturized satellite transceiver e.g. in a handheld unit carried by an individual incorporated into a mobile satellite transceiver system attached to the vehicle or incorporated into an in flight transceiver and locator system . In the case of transports communication signals sent from the transports back to the communications satellites include but are not limited to GPS position reports text messages Voice over Packet and or RFID tag information location data maps photos video task orders targeting data computer programs software cryptographic keys provisioning files and or other communications. GPS information identifying the location speed trajectory etc. of the transports is received from GPS satellites via the miniaturized satellite transceiver. In some implementations communications between the communications satellites and the Earth stations are sent directly to the Earth stations . In other implementations these communications are sent to network management centers first which in turn send the communications to Earth stations using commercial satellites or using conventional networking technologies e.g. Ethernet T1 land lines. 

In the miniaturized satellite transceiver provides mobile and or fixed remote access to the messaging system network. The Global Positioning System includes a satellite constellation that provides location signals to the GPS receivers of the miniaturized satellite transceiver . The messaging system also includes a communications satellite that provides a Radio Frequency RF communications relay between remote miniaturized satellite transceivers and Earth stations . The Earth station includes antennas and collocated hardware that handle the RF communication between the packet switch and a particular communications satellite . The packet switch is a computer cluster that provides the central message routing and delivery functionality allowing network clients to communicate. Agent client applications are peripheral customer applications that connect to the messaging system network via the packet switch to locate or communicate with other network clients e.g. the miniaturized satellite transceiver and or client applications in signal communication with the miniaturized satellite transceiver . The transceiver client applications are peripheral devices and related software that connect to the messaging system via the miniaturized satellite transceiver to locate or communicate with other network clients agent clients and or other transceiver clients . In some implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver is installed into the transceiver client e.g. a hand held device a phone a personal digital assistant PDA .

In some examples the messaging system uses satellite technology for both mobile remote communication and for location tracking. Another advantage of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is that the messaging system is a service platform for two major types of applications Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SCADA and mobile messaging and location tracking.

SCADA systems are generally used to monitor and or control remote facilities. For example a metropolitan water and sewer utility can use a SCADA application to centrally monitor conditions e.g. water levels in remote storage tanks flow rates at key points in a pipeline etc. or to control equipment e.g. remotely operate a series of valves . In some examples the messaging system and miniaturized transceiver are particularly well suited to provide the communication linkage for remote SCADA locations that are not served by traditional telecommunications facilities. Central locations such as headquarters or data centers can access the messaging system over the Internet to communicate with remote locations. An advantage of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is that locations not served by existing telecommunication facilities can be remotely monitored and or controlled.

The messaging system is also useful for mobile messaging and location tracking. Many mobile applications require both a data exchange capability and a location tracking capability. The messaging system allows a customer such as a trucking company to establish a private communication network that links each vehicle or shipping container with a central dispatch center to establish and provide a cryptographically isolated communication network. The message capability can be used for dispatch delivery tracking emergency alerts etc. The GPS capability allows up to the minute location tracking for each vehicle.

Some implementations of the miniaturized satellite transceiver include a commercial grade GPS receiver. Beneficially the miniaturized satellite transceiver includes commercial grade GPS capabilities on board and thus a separate GPS receiver component is not necessary. A GPS receiver within view of at least three GPS satellites can determine its ground position to within 30 meters. With four satellites the GPS receiver can also determine altitude speed and direction of travel i.e. course over ground . Advantageously this GPS information can then be transmitted via the miniaturized satellite transceiver s satellite modem to a satellite for relay back to an Earth station .

Alternative implementations of the miniaturized satellite transceiver provide a variety of configuration options with respect to automatic GPS reporting. One option causes the miniaturized satellite transceiver to autonomously transmit GPS information to the packet switch at a regular interval. This allows the miniaturized satellite transceiver to act as a tracking device for the messaging system regardless of whether a transceiver client is involved. Additional options allow a transceiver client to retrieve current GPS data. Some options allow the client application to show the current location on a map provided by mapping software installed on the transceiver client . In some implementations some implementations are in signal communication with a military grade GPS module allowing for greater location determining precision. In these implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver is used in conjunction with and interfaces with a transceiver client that includes a military grade GPS receiver.

The scalable design of the messaging system architecture allows a single network to support multiple user groups. In some versions the messaging system network configuration segregates each of the user groups that coexist on a network thereby creating a Virtual Private Network VPN for each group. Examples of user groups include a collection of Agent client applications and associated miniaturized satellite transceivers that operate within the confines of a VPN. A user group can for example represent for military applications a squad platoon or other grouping of soldiers. In business scenarios a user group can represent a particular business customer. A user group also represents however in some instances a separate functional division within a customer s organization. The messaging system uses a combination of encryption address node scheme configuration and packet switch process organization to form and secure each VPN.

In other examples the messaging system advantageously provides a flexible addressing scheme for VPNs. The messaging system uses an address abstraction scheme to control message delivery within a VPN. This scheme is based on a collection of named delivery targets known as nodes. Nodes are pre defined as part of the messaging system configuration and provisioning. At run time the messaging system associates a node to one or more actual network elements agent clients mobile satellite transceiver systems or miniaturized satellite transceivers based on a combination of configuration and real time events. Each messaging system message is addressed to a specific node determined by its sender . The messaging system delivers the message to all network elements currently associated with the specified node. This scheme provides a great deal of address flexibility. Node configuration schemes can be creatively constructed to provide individual element addresses as well as broadcast or multicast groups.

In some examples the messaging system advantageously delivers messages in Datagram mode. In this mode the sender receives no confirmation that a message has been received. This reduces the data sent back and forth between sender and recipient thereby reducing traffic on the messaging system . For messages transmitted from an agent client to the miniaturized satellite transceiver the messaging system also supports reliable mode. In reliable mode the packet switch transmits a message repeatedly until the message is received and acknowledged by the transceiver or until the retry limit is exhausted . The sending agent client receives explicit notification of message success or failure. While this increases traffic on the messaging system this ensures that the message sent was received thereby increasing the trustworthiness that a message got through.

In another embodiment the miniaturized satellite transceiver is Blue Force Tracking capable. Blue Force Tracking is a communications system linking satellites sensors vehicles and weapons into a single seamless digital network system. In some of these embodiments voice messages are sent over the Blue Force tracking network. The voice messages are sent in packet form for example as Voice over Packet VoP transmissions. In some implementations the voice packets are sent and received on a different channel than other data messages e.g. GPS and text messages are sent over an INMARSAT channel while VoP transmissions are sent over a Thuraya channel.

In some embodiments the data messages are also sent in packet form over the Blue Force Tracking capable miniaturized satellite transceiver . In implementations where dedicated voice channels are utilized beneficially when the miniaturized satellite transceiver detects that a voice message is to be sent the satellite modem within the miniaturized satellite transceiver ceases communications over the general data channel transmits the voice communications over the dedicated voice channel and then resumes communications over the general data channel once the voice communication has been transmitted and or received. In some implementations VoP communications sent via the Blue Force Tracking network are processed by a dedicated VoP processor not shown in signal communication with the miniaturized satellite transceiver . Beneficially implementations with VoP provide beyond line of site voice communications within approximately five and a half 5.5 seconds. Typically this includes a half second of voice data per packet a half second of transmit time per packet a network delay of approximately 3.5 seconds and a half second of processing at the ground station once the packet is received.

In another example the messaging system uses three key technologies to secure network data communication Digital Spread Spectrum and CDMA technology customer level data encryption and a network firewall. Combined these mechanisms essentially create a VPN that protects the communication between a customer s agents and transceivers .

In some examples the messaging system uses Digital Spread Spectrum Code Division Multiple Access DSS CDMA for all radio communications between transceivers communications satellites and earth stations . These methodologies are designed to insure secure and reliable radio communications. In one implementation the digital message content is combined with deliberate noise data and transmitted in a burst of bits that are spread over a range of frequencies. This implementation is typically more secure than other implementations. In another implementation the digital message content is combined with deliberate noise data and transmitted using a fixed data sequence. This implementation is typically more cost effective to implement and is more reliable. In both implementations and others the data is encrypted using a pseudo random algorithm and a key. Each transmission typically lasts less than four hundred milliseconds and appears as random static to most radio receivers. The receiving device is equipped with a matching algorithm and key allowing it to detect the transmission and reassemble the original content. In some examples encryption schemes such as Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithms Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithms and or Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithms are used to further secure communications.

The DSS CDMA methodology makes the transmission extremely difficult to detect known as Low Probability of Detection or LPD . Even if a transmission is detected and captured it is even more difficult to decode the message content known as Low Probability of Interception or LPI . DSS communication is also much less subject to RF noise or signal jamming. This provides a very high level of security and reliability for the satellite communications segment of the messaging system network.

The messaging system also applies internal encryption to message content to create customer level data encryption. Separate key sets are used for each user group or VPN . This further reinforces the internal separation of customers proprietary information within the messaging system network. The miniaturized satellite transceiver encrypts message content before transmitting and decrypts the contents after receiving. The packet switch performs a similar function at the point that it communicates with an agent client application . This approach further insures privacy between various customers being served by a particular packet switch . The customer level data encryption also hides customer message content from network operations staff.

In other examples the messaging system uses a network firewall to increase protection. The packet switch uses a standard network firewall to protect against unauthorized external access. The firewall is configured to allow access only to pre defined agent client applications .

In some examples an Earth station handles the RF communication between the packet switch and a particular communication satellite . The Earth station includes a satellite dish and collocated electronic components a host interface box or HIB and a beam processor array or BPA . Combined these components perform translation between the RF communications used by the communications satellite and the traditional network communications used by the packet switch . In essence an Earth station serves as the packet switch s satellite modem. In some implementations an Earth station serves as a transmitter a receiver and or both. Often Earth stations are dedicated to a particular role. Transmitting stations generally require an operating license and are subject to restrictions with regard to local geography and population density. As a result transmitting dishes are typically located in remote sparsely populated areas. Transmitting dishes are usually owned and operated by the satellite service vendor. Vendors also normally provide collocation space for the beam processor array BPA and host interface box HIB components.

Beneficially however receiver stations do not require licensing and are subject to little or no legal restrictions from the Federal Communication Commission. The receivers can be placed almost anywhere that has an unobstructed view of the target communications satellite . As a result receiving Earth stations can be fully owned and operated by an operator of the messaging system or an autonomous customer.

As described herein several components make up an Earth station the antenna the HIB and the BPA . The antenna commonly referred to as the host is the satellite dish that handles direct radio communication with a specific communications satellite . Depending on its role e.g. transmitter a receiver or both the host usually includes additional electronics such as signal amplifiers for transmitters RF noise filters for receivers and frequency converters for transmitters and receivers . A transmitting host takes the RF signal from the HIB and transmits it toward the communications satellite . A receiving host captures the satellite s radio transmission and delivers it to the HIB .

The HIB links the BPA components to the host . The HIB consists of an array of electronic and RF components in some implementations assembled into a single chassis. The primary electronic function of the HIB is to perform the conversion between the digitized DSS CDMA serial data stream used by the BPA and the analog RF signal format used by both the host and the communications satellite .

From an architectural perspective the HIB also serves as a host adapter as its name implies . It insulates the standardized interface of the BPA from the potential variation of the host interfaces. Implementations of the HIB are compatible with most standard host interfaces. When the messaging system is adapted to a new type of host interface however advantageously the HIB s electronic composition can be adjusted to meet the requirements. The physical composition of the HIB varies depending on the number of communication satellites and or beams coverage areas being served by the Earth station . It also varies based on the station s role as a transmitter or receiver.

The BPA is a collection of processing modules known as beam processors that provide the satellite modem functionality within the Earth station . The array is basically a chassis containing one or more independent beam processors. The beam processors of the array serve as the link between the packet switch and the HIB on behalf of a specific satellite beam. The beam processors perform the conversion between the TCP IP packet data format used by the packet switch and digitized DSS CDMA serial data stream used by the HIB . In essence it is the satellite modem for a particular beam. A beam processor can be configured as a transmitter as a receiver or as both dual mode . The transmitter functionality and the receiver functionality operate as separate independent processing channels even if a beam processor is used in dual mode . The composition of the Beam Processor Array varies depending on the number of beams being serviced by the Earth station the role of the Earth station as a transmitter and or receiver and the hardware redundancy plan for the array .

The packet switch forms the central core of the messaging system network. In some examples the packet switch consists of one or more networked computers that run a Unix operating system e.g. FreeBSD . Logically the packet switch comprises a set of distributed processes and configuration stores.

The packet switch communicates with Earth stations to perform message exchange with transceivers and associated transceiver clients . The packet switch also provides the agent API and serves as the host for all agent client application sessions. The packet switch in some versions serves as a master network router accepting messages from senders and delivering them to the intended recipient s . The primary functionality of the packet switch resides in three types of component processes hub client agent and router . These processes communicate with each other and with other network components using TCP IP connections. This architecture allows the processes to be distributed across the machines that form the packet switch thereby providing maximum scalability.

The HubClient Process HubClient is the packet switch s Earth station interface process. It handles the communications between the packet switch and a particular beam processor within the BPA of an Earth station . In some versions the packet switch operates a separate instance of the HubClient process for each beam processor channel transmitting or receiving . This means that a particular HubClient instance assumes a role as either a receiver or a transmitter. Each transmitter HubClient accepts outbound messages from the router process and relays them to its associated beam processor for translation and satellite transmission. Each receiver HubClient accepts inbound messages from its associated beam processor and relays them to the router process .

The agent process is the packet switch s customer facing subcomponent. The agent processes host the agent s API serving as the gateway between a customer s business applications agent clients and the messaging system network. Among other abilities this allows an agent client to track and exchange messages with its related transceivers .

From an architectural perspective an agent process also serves as the anchor point for its designated user group or VPN. Consequently the packet switch runs a separate instance of the agent process for each distinct user group. The configuration of a particular agent process defines the scope and membership of its related VPN.

An agent process can host API connections or agent client sessions for multiple agent clients . This gives the customer the option of dedicating agent clients to specific functions within the VPN such as dispatch GPS tracking general message exchange etc. . An agent process is also responsible for central message processing within the VPN. This includes encryption decryption for the agent client sessions. The agent process communicates with the router process to receive inbound messages from the miniaturized satellite transceiver and to send outbound messages to the miniaturized satellite transceiver . The agent process also serves as an intermediary for transceiver to transceiver messages within a VPN.

The router process handles message routing between agent processes and the HubClient processes . Conventionally the router process is a single process on the packet switch . However for scalability the messaging system architecture allows multiple router processes to work in concert to form a distributed virtual router. The router processes relay outbound messages received from agent processes to the appropriate HubClient s for transmission over the appropriate beams. The router process relays inbound messages from a HubClient to the agent process that is responsible for the sending transceiver s VPN.

Within the core network components the messaging system architecture can for example provide two interfaces for network client applications the agent process API and the transceiver API. Both APIs consist of a command line interpreter CLI and a specific command set that operates in a fashion similar to a traditional DOS command prompt. The client can execute appropriate commands to accomplish tasks such as sending a message to another network client .

Each agent process on the packet switch provides an agent process API which is designed to support a customer s central or ground based applications agent clients . Agent clients operate from outside the messaging system network typically on a customer s private system platform. The agent processes usually connect to the agent API using TCP IP over the Internet or other dedicated circuit . The agent client can then use the API to receive GPS tracking data from transceivers and or exchange messages with other network clients within the VPN.

In some implementations of the communication system the miniaturized satellite transceiver provides connection interface e.g. Molex interface available from Molex Incorporated to connect to devices e.g. a transceiver client . In those implementations the device connected to the miniaturized satellite transceiver has a complimentary connection interface e.g. the transceiver has a male connection interface and the interfacing device has a female connection interface. In some implementations a transceiver client of the miniaturized satellite transceiver is a PC hand held terminal and or a customized device.

Optionally an interface card can be used as a bridge between a device and the miniaturized satellite transceiver . For example in one implementation the interface card has a RS 422 serial port and a female connection interface. The transceiver client connects to the serial port and the female connection interface of the interface card is connected to a male connection interface on the miniaturized satellite transceiver . Thus the transceiver client is connected to miniaturized satellite transceiver via the interface card.

Where the miniaturized satellite transceiver is incorporated into a mobile satellite transceiver system the mobile satellite transceiver system includes an external RS 422 serial interface designed to connect to an external device e.g. a transceiver client . In some implementations a transceiver client is a PC hand held terminal and or a customized device.

Once connected to the miniaturized satellite transceiver the transceiver client has access to the transceiver API command set. A transceiver client can then use the miniaturized satellite transceiver to exchange messages with agent clients or other transceivers within the VPN. The transceiver client also retrieves the current GPS location of the miniaturized satellite transceiver . The transceiver API allows for an example a transceiver client to control a number of functions and settings of the miniaturized satellite transceiver including but not limited to digital I O power management and emergency mode operation.

The overall messaging system architecture includes network client components applications and devices that use the network. In some implementations however network clients are considered peripheral to the core network architecture because client application development and operations is conceptually the domain of the customer or an external technology partner. Client applications generally fall into either of two categories agent clients or transceiver clients .

Agent clients are users or applications that connect to the messaging system network using the agent API. This normally involves a TCP IP connection over the Internet dedicated circuit and or dial up connection. Once connected the agent client has full access to the agent API command set. In most agent client scenarios the interaction with the API is performed by software either by an automated process or by a translation layer that acts on behalf of a human user. However it is possible for a user to engage the API directly using a utility such as TELNET. The primary purpose of most agent clients is to exchange messages with transceivers and or track their locations.

It is customary for an agent client to assume the identity of a pre defined network node while connected to the network thus allowing it to receive the messages addressed to the node. This technique combined with proper configuration of the miniaturized satellite transceiver and an appropriate node addressing scheme allows an agent client to act as a central point of communication or data collection for certain network applications. Since an agent process can handle multiple simultaneous agent clients it is possible to design agent clients with specific dedicated roles within the network application scheme.

Since agent clients typically connect to the messaging system over the Internet the connection is likely to support a much higher communication bandwidth than the transceiver satellite linkage. Agent clients have a better potential for maintaining a continuous long term connection with the network. These factors tend to concentrate higher traffic application roles such as central dispatch or GPS location tracking to the realm of agent clients rather than transceiver clients .

Transceiver clients are users or applications that connect to the messaging system network through the miniaturized satellite transceiver using the transceiver API. Once connected the transceiver client has full access to the transceiver API command set.

In many implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver s operating system operates autonomously to control the operation of the GPS receiver and the satellite modem. This allows the miniaturized satellite transceiver to maintain a communications lock on the satellite and to accept messages from the messaging system network. The miniaturized satellite transceiver can for example be configured to periodically report its GPS location and general status to the packet switch . The operating system can for example include a command line interface and command set that serves as the API for an attached transceiver client .

In most transceiver client scenarios the interaction with the API is performed by software either by an automated process or by a translation layer that acts on behalf of a human user. However it is possible for a user to engage the API directly using commonly available terminal emulation utilities such as PC Plus HyperTerminal etc. The primary purpose of most transceiver clients is to exchange messages with other network clients e.g. miniaturized satellite transceivers or agent clients and or determine its own current location or that of other individuals and or vehicles incorporating miniaturized satellite transceivers . The nature of the satellite communication linkage with respect to both speed and transience limits a transceiver client s practical ability to handle central application roles that require significant data volume or bandwidth. This inherent limitation is somewhat lessened for fixed remote transceiver applications since they are usually able to maintain a constant lock on the satellite .

In some implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver also has text messaging capabilities. The messaging system is designed to transport short message packets between network clients. A network client can be either an agent client connected to the packet switch or a transceiver used in a mobile or fixed remote application . The messaging system messages are somewhat analogous though distinctly different as explained below to email messages in the following respects The user or client application provides message content known as payload . Messages are routed and delivered to the destination asynchronously usually within a few seconds. There is no guarantee that the intended recipient is presently available to read the message. It is possible to request confirmation of delivery from the receiving party. The message as a whole includes standard header information used for network routing. Message content is typically represented in printable ASCII text. Binary content must be encoded as printable ASCII text in the form of Hexadecimal pairs. However messaging system messages differ from email in the following ways message payload the carrying capacity available for text or application data is limited to 100 110 bytes. Messages are addressed to other messaging system network members using a proprietary addressing scheme rather than a traditional email address . Messages must be addressed to a single destination node. There is typically no explicit CC capability though multicasting and broadcasting capabilities are available in some implementations. The messaging system message transport mechanism is ideal for applications that must exchange short independent data packets on a relatively infrequent basis.

The processor can be for example an ARM processor available from ARM Limited. In some examples the processor provides an application programming interface API for access to the functions of the processor including the processing of the inputs and outputs to the miniaturized satellite transceiver . In other examples the processor provides a scheduler which provides for scheduling of the inputs and outputs to the miniaturized satellite transceiver . The FPGA processor can control for example the sensitivity of the satellite modem and or delivery of data to the satellite. In some examples the FPGA processor encodes and decodes the packets received and transmitted respectively through the satellite modem .

One implementation of the miniaturized satellite transceiver has the following specifications. The miniaturized satellite transceiver s size is approximately two inches wide by four inches 4 deep by six tenths of an inch 0.6 tall i.e. 2 4 0.6 . It weighs approximately three tenths of a pound 3 10lb. and has an operating temperature of 40 C. to 65 C. The main interface to the unit is a 3.3 volt TTL serial port and the unit requires 6.5 15 volts of direct current vdc . The miniaturized satellite transceiver uses 0.15 amps at 10 vdc during receiving operations and 3.0 amps at 10 vdc while transmitting. The transmit frequencies used are 1610.0 to 1660.5 MHz and receive frequencies are between 1525.0 and 1559 MHz and are transmitted between 0.04 Watts and 4 Watts. This implementation of the miniaturized satellite transceiver has a GPS unit installed as well as a 50 ohm external feed antenna which accepts Left Hand Circular LHC and Right Hand Circular RHC polarization feeds. Further the implementation is compatible with the application programming interface API of the MT 2011 transceiver produced by Comtech Mobile Datacom Corporation of Germantown Md. . Further the miniaturized satellite transceiver is capable of communicating at data rates between 660 bits per second bps and about 21 000 bps and with a power supply as low as 6.5 vdc.

In some implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver is installed in a handheld device or is accessed via an interface card by a handheld device. Beneficially though because of its small size and standard interfaces the miniaturized satellite transceiver is in some implementations incorporated into communications systems attached to vehicles. For example as a mobile satellite transceiver system attached to a cargo transport such as a truck or train may incorporate the miniaturized satellite transceiver or alternatively the miniaturized satellite transceiver is incorporated into an in flight transceiver and locator system housed in an aircraft such as a helicopter or airplane. Typically these systems provide additional functionality for use in conjunction with the miniaturized satellite transceiver such as RFID interrogators military grade GPS. Advantageously the miniaturized satellite transceiver provides commercial grade GPS reception satellite communications and status location etc. reporting for the vehicle.

Many implementations of the miniaturized satellite transceiver provide the following capabilities and advantages an L Band satellite modem that operate over MSAT INMARSAT Thuraya Artemis ACeS and OPTUS L Band systems a commercial grade GPS receiver on board processor and operating system RS 422 Serial interface and or a connection interface to connect to for external devices API command set to serve a user or client application from an attached peripheral device emergency alert mode ability to automatically detect and tune to appropriate satellite communication frequency known as World Wide Autonomy or WWA over the air configuration capability known as remote provisioning auxiliary power supply for external devices and or power management features.

In some implementations where the miniaturized satellite transceiver is incorporated into a mobile satellite transceiver system the operating system is configured to meet the interface requirements of the Gen III RF interrogator board available from Savi Technology of Sunnyvale Calif. and or a GRAM SAASM board including health and diagnostic capabilities for both . Interrogator capabilities include determining an RFID tag s identity information e.g. tag number received signal strength indicator battery status code and or the tag s header data e.g. tag number Transportation Control Number TCN Consignee DODAAC and or Commodity Class . Interrogator requests can occur at defined intervals or on demand from a control station . Interrogation can for example be turned on and off on an as needed basis. In some examples messages sent can include a bumper number e.g. a unit ID or a combat ID a grid location date and time manual inputs for RFID tags and or tag reading malfunction. Some implementations of the transceiver are configured to cause RFID tags to emit audible beeps.

In some examples the miniaturized satellite transceiver supports virtual LEDs or status indicators that are changed and or set by software to indicate an established satellite link indication of data transmission and or reception and or other statuses. The mobile satellite transceiver system and the miniaturized satellite transceiver can for example utilize an external cryptographic device to fill the cryptographic keys used during communications. The external cryptographic device is typically connected via a RS 422 serial connector or via an interface card for the miniaturized satellite transceiver .

In addition to incorporation into a mobile satellite transceiver system for use on trucks or trains the miniaturized satellite transceiver can alternatively be incorporated into an in flight transceiver and locator system in aircraft vehicles such as helicopters and or airplanes. Beneficially the miniaturized satellite transceiver s small form factor and low weight are ideal for aircraft platforms due to the limitation of space on the aircraft and the need to minimize the aircraft s total weight.

Typically the aviation box resides inside the aircraft e.g. a helicopter. The antennas typically reside on the exterior of the aircraft. For the aviation box to fit into a small form factor e.g. one half short ATR approximately six 6 inches the antenna is located outside of the aviation box as well as the aircraft. In some embodiments the antenna is located not less than feet from the aviation box . In some embodiments the antenna is located not less than thirty feet from the aviation box . Beneficially the LNA switch boosts the signal between the antenna and the aviation box overcoming the signal loss in the cable connecting the aviation box to the antenna . In some examples the aviation box incorporates a miniaturized satellite transceiver . In other examples the antenna fits the aerodynamic requirements of the aircraft. The benefit is that robust communications and miniaturized satellite transceiver functionality with built in GPS capabilities can be provided in a form factor that fits easily within an aircraft where space is at a premium and additional weight is discouraged.

The aircraft is able to communicate securely with ground units base stations and other aircraft via the in flight transceiver system . The aircraft is signally connected to a data interface located on the exterior of the aviation box . The data from the aircraft is sent via a port via the interface card to the miniaturized satellite transceiver and or GB GRAM SAASM unit . The data is then communicated from the aviation box through the LNA switch to the antenna located on the exterior of the aircraft. From the antenna data is communicated to a communications and or GPS satellite. When receiving information the reverse occurs data is received at the antenna passes through the LNA where the signal is amplified the signal is received by the miniaturized satellite transceiver is communicated to the interface card and or GB GRAM SAASM unit and transmitted via a port on the exterior of the aviation box to the aircraft. The in flight transceiver system sends communication over a standard L Band satellite communication channel to communicate with a satellite as described above.

In other examples the in flight transceiver system is operable under various aviation environmental conditions such as vibration salt fog varying temperatures e.g. between minus twenty six 26 degrees Centigrade and plus seventy one 71 degrees Centigrade aircraft voltage transients altitude air pressure blowing dust and sand solar radiation fungus rain blowing rain freezing rain transit drop explosive atmosphere radiated external electromagnetic forces and or conducted emissions.

In a preferred implementation the antenna is a fin shaped antenna that preferably resides on the exterior of the aircraft. In some implementations the antenna is a dual pole antenna and includes a right hand circularly polarized RHCP antenna and a left hand circularly polarized LHCP antenna . This allows the antenna to tune communications sent using either signal polarization. In some implementations one antenna can be adjusted to act as a RHCP antenna or a LHCP antenna . If there is only one antenna a switch can for example be used to determine the direction of the polarization. In one embodiment the LNA switch can be used to determine the polarization of the antenna. In other examples the antenna has omni directional capabilities so that the antenna can receive communications originating from any direction and not just communications specifically aimed at the antenna .

In some implementations the LNA switch is connected to the antenna s and boosts the signal received by the antenna s when forwarding the antenna s signal to the aviation box . Boosting the signal allows the antenna s to have a wire between the antenna s and the aviation box that is longer in length than is achievable for a connection without a signal boosting LNA . Optionally the LNA switch controls signal traffic between the antenna and the aviation box . For example the LNA switch advantageously instructs the receiver in the miniaturized satellite transceiver to cease receiving while the transmitter in the miniaturized satellite transceiver is transmitting. In addition to being connected to the antenna the LNA switch is also connected to the aviation box via transmit and receive connections. In some implementations the connections are a single cable e.g. a serial connection a copper wire or the like. In these implementations typically a control signal instructs the LNA if a transmit or receive command is being sent from the miniaturized satellite transceiver to the LNA switch . In a preferred implementation however the transmit and receive connections between the LNA switch and the aviation box are separate connections. Regardless of single or dual connections a control signal can also be provided to the LNA switch by the aviation box if RHCP or LHCP is to be used when sending or receiving a transmission. Additionally the aviation box includes a power and control line connected to the LNA switch . Typically electrical power provided by aircrafts undergoes dips and surges. Beneficially power to the LNA box miniaturized satellite transceiver and or the GB GRAM SAASM unit can be conditioned by the interface card within the aviation box to prevent power surges or dips from damaging the circuitry of the respective components.

The interface card in the aviation box provides several connections for the in flight transceiver system . In some versions the interface card provides connections between the miniaturized satellite transceiver ports on the exterior of the aviation box and the GB GRAM SAASM using wiring harnesses with latching connectors. Additionally the interface card provides serial interface converters to convert from serial connections found on the exterior of the aviation box to bus connections with the miniaturized satellite transceiver and GB GRAM SAASM . In some implementations the interface card receives power via a connection on the exterior of the aviation box from the aircraft and provides power supply conditioning of approximately an input range of about 10 to about 32 VDC for the other components of the in flight transceiver system such as the miniaturized satellite transceiver and LNA switch . In some embodiments power conditioning for the miniaturized satellite transceiver involves a step down conversion to 12 VDC. The power supplied to the LNA switch is a step down conversion to about 8 VDC.

In one implementation the aviation box has an RS 422 interface and a RS 232 interface on the exterior of the aviation box optionally connected to the interface card . The RS 422 interface is useful for connecting the aviation box to communication systems computers e.g. Force XXI Battle Command Brigade and Below FBCB2 computers and or navigation systems of the aircraft . The RS 232 interface is useful for connecting a laptop computer as a diagnostic tool to the aviation box . In some implementations the aviation box can have an auto detect feature that recognizes if connections are made to either the RS 422 interface or the RS 232 interface. In some versions the auto detect functionality disregards connections to one of the serial connections other based on software logic executing on a processor typically associated with the miniaturized satellite transceiver within the aviation box . In one implementation the auto detect feature of the software logic instructs the aviation box to ignore commands from the RS 422 interface if a laptop or diagnostic tool is connected to the RS 232 interface. In another implementation the software logic will instruct the aviation box to multiplex between the RS 232 interface and the RS 422 interface.

In some implementations the aviation box also provides connections on the exterior of the aviation box via the interface card for external capabilities to provide enhanced functionality. In some implementations there is an interface that accepts a cryptographic fill wherein secure cryptographic keys and or data are provided to the aviation box for encrypting decrypting and or encoding decoding transmissions. In some implementations there is an interface that accepts external GPS data and or functionality. For example in some versions the GB GRAM SAASM unit additionally provides anti spoofing capabilities to the commercial level accuracy built into the GPS of the miniaturized satellite transceiver e.g. accurate location information within thirty to one hundred meters . In some implementations WAAS and or military grade GPS data functionality can be supplied to the aviation box via a connector on the exterior of the aviation box . WAAS and or military grade GPS is accurate within three meters. In some implementations external GPS is unnecessary because the GPS capabilities built into the miniaturized satellite transceiver provides WAAS level accuracy.

In some embodiments the miniaturized satellite transceiver utilizes a dedicated external GPS antenna interface provided via the exterior ports of the aviation box . The miniaturized satellite transceiver interfaces to the GB GRAM SAASM unit internal to the aviation box via the interface card using a GPS serial connection. In some versions the GB GRAM SAASM unit provides a dedicated cryptographic key port on the exterior of the aviation box for cryptographic fills. In some implementations the miniaturized satellite transceiver provides position reporting via FBCB2 messages.

In some examples the miniaturized satellite transceiver of the aviation box sends receives text messages location data maps photos video task orders targeting data computer programs software cryptographic keys provisioning files and or other communications to from the antenna . In other examples the miniaturized satellite transceiver is assigned unique radio identifier. In some versions a customizable node name is associated with and or assigned to the unique radio identifier for easy reference by computers e.g. the aircraft s computers or computers at a ground station or by humans either operators of the aircraft the in flight transceiver system is located in or by units and or ground stations communicating with the aircraft.

In other examples the miniaturized satellite transceiver switches to Voice over Blue Force Tracking voice over packet upon initiation and or detection of voice traffic. Upon completion of the voice communication the transceiver switches back to general Blue Force Tracking mode. In some examples a processor not shown for the miniaturized satellite transceiver processes commands from the GB GRAM SAASM unit Application Programming Interface API . The miniaturized satellite transceiver beneficially allows communications systems computers e.g. FBCB2 computers and navigation systems of the aircraft to utilize and or provide commands to the transceiver e.g. acting as a data modem to communicate with satellites other in flight and or ground units and or base stations .

In other examples the aviation box has three light emitting diode LED lights on the exterior of the box . A first LED indicates when the aviation box has a connected power supply. The second LED indicates when the miniaturized satellite transceiver has locked onto a satellite. The third LED indicates when the miniaturized satellite transceiver is transmitting. In other examples LED lights are additionally located remotely from the aviation box . In these embodiments the LED lights are mounted or positioned on the dashboard of the cockpit or flight area and the aviation box is located in another part of the aircraft. Typically a cable harness connects the aviation box and the LED lights.

For example a mobile satellite transceiver system that incorporates the miniaturized satellite transceiver is usually attached to a vehicle and includes a housing that contains the miniaturized satellite transceiver and other modular components e.g. GB GRAM RFID module . For example even though the miniaturized satellite transceiver provides commercial grade GPS functionality some implementations however utilize a separate military grade GPS component to provide greater GPS accuracy. An example of such a module is a GB GRAM with corresponding antennas and or a Selective Availability Anti Spoofing Module SAASM described below . Beneficially the miniaturized satellite transceiver s satellite modem acts as the satellite modem for the mobile satellite transceiver system for communicating the more accurate GPS coordinates back to an Earth station via the communications satellite.

Military grade GPS is beneficial in that SAASM capable receivers can directly acquire military P Y code signals from a GPS satellite in . The P Y code has more robust anti jamming defenses than a civilian code which any individual can access with a commercial receiver . Being SAASM capable does not provide jamming immunity rather it enables access to the more secure military P Y code. SAASM enabled receivers can also acquire encrypted Y code directly from satellite without relying on local radio signals. SAASM allows for satellite authentication over the air rekeying and contingency recovery features typically available with the similar but older PPS SM system. SAASM enable receivers also allow for updating with an encrypted Black Key that can be transmitted over unclassified channels.

In some implementations a mobile satellite transceiver system that incorporates a miniaturized satellite transceiver provides a RFID module . The RFID module can be for example a RFID transceiver interrogator component for RFID interrogator capabilities. The RFID interrogator component is used to transmit a signal requesting a response from RFID receivers tags nearby. RFID tags located nearby e.g. under ten meters receive the signal and respond with a self identifying signal. The RFID tags used in conjunction with the RFID interrogator can be passive semi passive or active. In some examples passive RFID tags have no internal power supply and instead receive any necessary power from the RFID interrogator signal. In other examples semi passive RFIDs tags contain a battery and remain constantly powered. Semi passive RFIDs typically can respond to an interrogation signal faster than a passive RFID tag. In some examples active RFID tags transmit a self identifying signal periodically and do not wait for the RFID interrogator signal.

The RFID interrogator can for example receive response signals from the RFID tags and report the results via the miniaturized satellite transceiver to headquarters. The status reports allow headquarters to determine that the location and cargo sent from the warehouse or loading point matches the expected cargo at that particular point. For example A transport truck left headquarters with boxes X Y and Z each having an RFID tag. En route the RFID transceiver transmits an interrogator signal. The RFID tags on each box responds. A first status report and a location indicator are sent via the transceiver to headquarters. Based on the received status report headquarters knows that boxes X Y and Z are en route to the destination. After the first status report is sent to headquarters box Y is dropped off at military base alpha. En route to military base beta the RFID transceiver transmits a second interrogation signal. Boxes X and Z respond. Box Y does not reply because box Y was dropped off is out of range of the interrogation signal. Based on the second status report that is sent to headquarters headquarters determines that box Y is no longer on the transport truck Headquarters can for example receive a report from military base alpha through other RFID means that box Y was dropped off.

Advantageously combinations of the above configurations are provided e.g. a mobile satellite transceiver system that utilizes the commercial grade GPS of the miniaturized satellite transceiver a mobile satellite transceiver system with commercial grade GPS and RFID capabilities a mobile satellite transceiver system providing GB GRAM and or SAASM alone with no RFID capabilities and a mobile satellite transceiver system with GB GRAM SAASM and RFID capabilities. Some implementations additionally provide a memory buffer of at least 512 kilobytes e.g. 512 kilobyte 1024 kilobyte 10 megabyte to accept large data dumps for packetized transmission over the satellite communications link.

In other examples the mobile satellite system includes an operating system for controlling one or more operations of the mobile satellite transceiver and for communicating with the miniaturized satellite transceiver . The operating system in the mobile satellite system can communicate for example with the GB GRAM module and or the RFID module. The operating system in the mobile satellite system can utilize for example the user interface module to interact with a user. In some examples the miniaturized satellite transceiver includes a GPS receiver for receiving communications from a GPS satellite a satellite modem for transmitting and receiving communications from a communications satellite and an operating system for controlling one or more operations of the GPS satellite and the satellite modem and for communicating with the mobile satellite transceiver .

One implementation of a mobile satellite transceiver system that incorporates the miniaturized satellite transceiver has the following specifications. The mobile satellite transceiver systems s size is approximately eight inches wide by eight inches deep by five inches tall i.e. 8 8 5 . It weighs approximately 11 lbs and has an operating temperature of 40 C. to 65 C. This implementation of the mobile satellite transceiver system is 100 humidity and highly water resistant and operates at altitudes of 0 to 25 000 feet. The main interface to the unit is a RS 422 serial port military style connector and the unit requires 10 32 volts of direct current vdc . Power is supplied through a 12 vdc input and the mobile satellite transceiver uses 0.35 amps during receiving operations 3.0 amps for 

Method steps can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and an apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry. The circuitry can for example be a FPGA field programmable gate array and or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Modules subroutines and software agents can refer to portions of the computer program the processor the special circuitry software and or hardware that implements that functionality.

The above described systems and methods can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer hardware firmware and or software. The implementation can be as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier . The implementation can for example be in a machine readable storage device and or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The implementation can for example be a programmable processor a computer and or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in many forms of programming language including compiled and or interpreted languages and the computer program can be deployed in many forms including as a stand alone program or as a subroutine element and or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer can include can be operatively coupled to receive data from and or transfer data to one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks .

Data transmission and instructions can also occur over a communications network. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices. The information carriers can for example be EPROM EEPROM flash memory devices magnetic disks internal hard disks removable disks magneto optical disks CD ROM and or DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by and or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computer having a display device. The display device can for example be a cathode ray tube CRT and or a liquid crystal display LCD monitor. The interaction with a user can for example be a display of information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user. Other devices can for example be feedback provided to the user in any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback . Input from the user can for example be received in any form including acoustic speech and or tactile input.

The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet wired networks wireless networks packet based networks and or circuit based networks. Packet based networks can include for example the Internet a carrier internet protocol IP network e.g. local area network LAN wide area network WAN campus area network CAN metropolitan area network MAN home area network HAN a private IP network an IP private branch exchange IPBX a wireless network e.g. radio access network RAN 802.11 network 802.16 network general packet radio service GPRS network HiperLAN and or other packet based networks. Circuit based networks can include for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a private branch exchange PBX a wireless network e.g. RAN bluetooth code division multiple access CDMA network time division multiple access TDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or other circuit based networks.

Comprise include and or plural forms of each are open ended and include the listed parts and can include additional parts that are not listed. And or is open ended and includes one or more of the listed parts and combinations of the listed parts.

One skilled in the art will realize the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the invention described herein. Scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein.

