---

title: Oilfield management system and method
abstract: Systems and methods for managing and performing oilfield operations for an oilfield having geological formations and reservoirs therein are disclosed. The systems and methods provide a graphical user interface that allows a user to graphically define, edit, and automatically run a workflow for managing and performing oilfield operations. Lines are used in the workflow to express both execution flow and data flow. In this way, both execution flow and data flow may be represented in a single workflow diagram. The workflow management systems and methods also allow users to dynamically modify the workflow to add contact information for one or more other users to at least one work step. Users may then use the workflow management systems and methods to suspend running of the workflow at any modified work step and request consultation, collaboration, and/or approval from the other users whose contact information was added to the work step.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08086479&OS=08086479&RS=08086479
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 08086479
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070131
---
This application for patent claims priority to and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 882 860 entitled Oilfield Management System and Method filed Dec. 29 2006 with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

The present invention relates to techniques for performing oilfield operations for an oilfield having geological structures and reservoirs therein. More particularly the invention relates to techniques for collaborating between multiple users to manage such oilfield operations.

Oilfield operations involve various sub surface activities used to locate and gather valuable hydrocarbons. Various tools such as seismic tools are often used to locate the hydrocarbons. One or more wellsites may be positioned along an oilfield to locate and gather the hydrocarbons from subterranean reservoirs of an oilfield. The wellsites are provided with tools capable of advancing into the ground and removing hydrocarbons from the subterranean reservoirs. Production facilities are positioned at surface locations to collect the hydrocarbons from the wellsites. Fluid is drawn from the subterranean reservoirs and passed to the production facilities via transport mechanisms such as tubing. Various equipment is positioned about the oilfield to monitor and manipulate the flow of hydrocarbons from the reservoirs.

During oilfield operations it is often desirable to monitor various oilfield parameters such as fluid flow rates composition and the like. Sensors may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to the wellsite and the processing facility among others. For example sensors in the wellbore may monitor fluid composition sensors located along the flow path may monitor flow rates and sensors at the processing facility may monitor fluids collected. The monitored data is often used to make real time decisions at the oilfield. Data collected by these sensors may be further analyzed and processed.

The processed data may be used to determine conditions at the wellsites and or other portions of the oilfield and make decisions concerning these activities. Operating parameters such as wellsite setup drilling trajectories flow rates wellbore pressures production rates and other parameters may be adjusted based on the received information. In some cases known patterns of behavior of various oilfield configurations geological factors operating conditions or other parameters may be collected over time to predict future oilfield activities.

Oilfield data is often used to monitor and or perform various oilfield operations. There are numerous factors that may be considered in operating an oilfield. Thus the analysis of large quantities of a wide variety of data and management of the oilfield are often complex. Workflows have been developed for the handling and processing such data as well as documents tasks and the like. These workflows are commonly used by oilfield services companies to capture for example recovery processes refining processes quality control processes approval process and the like. For a given process a workflow defines among other things which tasks need to be performed when the tasks are to be performed who is to perform the tasks in what order are they to be performed how information flows to support the tasks how the tasks are tracked and so forth. Historically workflows were prepared manually using for example Microsoft PowerPoint and similar presentation tools. These workflows however were little more than illustrative guides insofar as each work step contained in the workflow had to be initiated manually by appropriate personnel. The complex process of gathering and interpreting the data required to characterize model and design a production regimen for an oilfield requires the execution of several different applications.

More recently computer based workflow editors have been developed that allow users to construct a workflow via a graphical user interface and to subsequently execute the workflow. The user simply runs the workflow and each work step contained in the workflow including the applications associated with is performed automatically. In these workflow editors lines were used to represent execution flow but not data flow due to the limitations of existing workflow editors. Thus a user had to choose either an execution flow or a data flow whichever was most useful for his her particular application. Unfortunately such a solution does not readily accommodate certain situations where for example a work step is executed multiple times as in an execution loop because each work step needs an input from another specific work step. This led to the imposition of certain rules that were cumbersome to carry out for example using lines to represent only execution flow then using data labels to represent data flow.

In addition data relating to an oilfield often need to be generated and or reviewed by users at various locations. Typically such users perform limited functions and have limited access to specific subsets of data. Furthermore the users are often unable to communicate with other users or consider data from other sources.

Thus despite advances in oilfield and workflow technology there remains a need to provide techniques for enhancing the performance of oilfield operations. It is desirable that techniques be provided for permitting multiple users to collaborate on workflows data and oilfield operations. It is further desirable that such users be capable of one or more of the following among others providing more effective methods and systems for developing workflows linking users to enable collaboration therebetween and providing a workflow editor with a graphical user interface that uses lines to represent both execution flow and data flow.

Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for managing and performing oilfield operations for an oilfield having geological formations and reservoirs therein. The systems and methods provide a graphical user interface that allows a user to graphically define edit and automatically run a workflow for managing and performing oilfield operations. Lines are used in the workflow to express both execution flow and data flow. In this way both execution flow and data flow may be represented in a single workflow diagram. The workflow management systems and methods also allow users to dynamically modify the workflow to add contact information for one or more other users e.g. domain experts senior engineers etc. to at least one work step. Users may then use the workflow management systems and methods to suspend running of the workflow at any modified work step and request consultation collaboration and or approval from the other users whose contact information was added to that work step.

In at least one aspect the invention relates to a system for collaboratively managing oilfield operations for an oilfield having geological formations and reservoirs therein. The system comprises a network and a workflow server connected to the network the workflow server configured to execute a workflow manager the workflow manager allowing a user to graphically define edit and automatically run a workflow for performing oilfield operations. The system further comprises a plurality of user computers connected to the workflow server over the network each user computer configured to allow a user to access the workflow manager and the workflow. The workflow manager is configured to allow users to collaborate in defining editing and running the workflow.

In another aspect the invention relates to a method of collaboratively managing oilfield operations for an oilfield having geological formations and reservoirs therein. The method comprises providing a workflow manager on a workflow server and allowing users to define edit and automatically run a workflow for performing oilfield operations via the workflow manager the workflow having a plurality of work steps. The method further comprises receiving contact information for one or more users for at least one work step via the workflow manager and sending a request for consultation collaboration and or approval to the one or more users via the workflow manager.

In yet another aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium encoded with computer readable instructions for allowing users to collaboratively manage oilfield operations for an oilfield having geological formations and reservoirs therein. The computer readable instructions comprise instructions for causing a computer to execute a workflow manager the workflow manager configured to allow a user to graphically define edit and run a workflow. The computer readable instructions comprises instructions for causing a computer to allow users to access the workflow manager over a network and to collaborate via the workflow manager in defining editing and running the workflow.

In still another aspect the invention relates to an article of manufacture for use in collaboratively managing oilfield operations for an oilfield having geological formations and reservoirs therein. The article of manufacture comprises a processor and a computer readable medium connected to the processor. The computer readable medium is encoded with computer readable instructions for causing the processor to present a workflow to a user and allow the user to define edit and automatically run the workflow the workflow having a plurality of work steps for performing oilfield operations. The computer readable instructions further cause the processor receive contact information for one or more contacts from the user for a given work step and send a request to the one or more contacts to consult collaborate and or provide approval for the given work step.

In the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment and other embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood that those of skill in the art will readily see that other embodiments and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

Turning to an oilfield is depicted having machinery used to extract hydrocarbons such as oil and gas from downhole formations. An operations control center may assist in collecting data and making decisions to enhance operations in the oilfield. Data such as measurements of bottom hole pressure and tubing head pressure may be gathered from the oilfield and analyzed.

As shown in the oilfield includes a number of wells. Specifically the oilfield includes a first producing well that uses an electric submersible pump to produce a hydrocarbon e.g. oil gas etc. a second well that relies on a gas lift to produce a hydrocarbon and a third well that relies on natural flow to produce a hydrocarbon. First producing well second well and third well deliver production fluids e.g. hydrocarbon produced from their respective wells to a production manifold . The production manifold collects multiple streams and outputs the streams to a gas and oil separator .

Upon receipt of the production fluids by the gas and oil separator the gas and oil separator separates various components from the fluids such as produced water produced oil and produced gas respectively to water disposal well oil storage and a compressor station . Oil storage may transfer oil via an oil export pipeline . Similarly the compressor station may use gas export pipeline to transfer gas. Finally the compressor station may process gas as an injection gas .

In order to adjust pressure on the injection gas a meter and control system may cooperate with an injection gas manifold . The operation of the meter and control system may regulate pressure of the injection gas as the injection gas is delivered to a wellhead tubing and casing . In addition to the injection gas extracting efforts may rely upon a rod pump to drive a downhole pump assembly via a reciprocating motion. In such cases the rod pump propels hydrocarbons to the production manifold .

In one example the operations control center may receive data from sensors positioned throughout the oilfield . Examples of sensors are depicted and described in further detail with respect to and described further below. The operations control center may also operate and or control equipment in the third well .

The operations control center stores and in some cases optionally processes and or analyzes the data. In some cases the operations control center may also generate and transmit control signals via the second communication link to a down hole apparatus . For example the operations control center may automatically generate control signals using data obtained via the communications link . In another example the operations control center may provide information to an operator that may consider the information and then send control signals as desired. In addition the operations control center may also provide feedback to the down hole sensors and or the well head sensors using data obtained via the communications link . Historical real time or stored data may also be processed and analyzed off site.

As can be seen the analysis of large quantities of a wide variety of data and management of an oilfield are often complex. Workflows may be developed for the handling and processing of such oilfield data as well as various documents tasks and the like. Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for managing such workflows. The workflow management systems and methods of the invention provide a graphical user interface that allows a user to graphically define edit and automatically run a workflow. In preferred embodiments the workflow may be represented using lines to express both execution flow and data flow. This allows both execution flow and data flow to be represented in a single workflow diagram. In addition the workflow management systems and methods of the invention allow users to dynamically modify the workflow to add contact information for one or more contacts e.g. domain expert senior engineer etc. to at least one work step. Users may then use the workflow management systems and methods to suspend running of the workflow if needed at any modified work step and request consultation collaboration and or communication with the contacts associated with that work step.

Referring now to an example of a workflow usable for performing wellbore operations such as those depicted in is shown. As can be seen the workflow comprises a series of work steps that are interconnected to one another. Each work step performs or is configured to launch an application e.g. MathCAD that performs a certain function within the workflow . In the specific example shown the workflow has been defined to characterize model and design a production regimen for an oilfield. Those having ordinary skill in the art will understand however that similar workflows may be defined for other non oilfield industries without departing from the scope of the invention.

In some cases the work steps may be selected from a predefined set or collection of work steps . These work steps typically comprise application programming interfaces API that can be used by oilfield service companies and other companies to build various applications such as data interpretation and processing applications. An example of a predefined set or collection of application programming interfaces that may be used for the oilfield industry is Ocean Framework available from Schlumberger Information Services of Houston Tex. The workflow may then be run to cause each work step to automatically perform its specific tasks.

In some cases both data flow and execution flow are expressed in the workflow without restricting execution flow based on data flow considerations. In one example rectangles are used to represent the work steps with specific sides of the rectangles being pre designated for data flow versus execution flow. In the workflow of for example the left side of the rectangles is designated for data inputs the right side for data outputs the top side for previous execution steps and the bottom for subsequent execution steps. In this way vertically flowing lines may be used to represent execution flow while horizontally flowing lines may be used to represent data flow. Of course other shapes besides a rectangle e.g. circle diamond etc. and other flow directions besides the left to right and top to bottom may also be used without departing from the scope of the invention.

In operation a user e.g. oilfield engineer etc. may dynamically enter contact information for one or more other users e.g. domain expert senior engineer etc. to at least one work step of a workflow via the workflow server . This means that the workflow manager allows the requesting user to simply enter the contact information into the work steps of an existing workflow without having to modify any programming codes or scripts underlying the work steps or the workflow. Thereafter the requesting user may instruct the workflow manager to suspend running of the workflow if needed at the modified work step and request consultation collaboration and or approval including signoff from other users e.g. domain expert senior engineer etc. as needed. The workflow manager thereafter sends an appropriate message to the other users e.g. domain expert senior engineer etc. along with any information needed to access the particular workflow and work steps e.g. a URL . The message may be sent in real time while the workflow is running or while the workflow is suspended and it may be sent using any suitable medium known to those having ordinary skill in the art e.g. cell phone message text message voice message email page etc. . The workflow manager may also automatically enter the request on the requested users electronic task list including any deadlines and priority levels associated with the request.

When the requested users receives the request they may access the workflow and the data produced therefrom by logging on to the workflow server e.g. via an appropriate URL . After they validate their credentials from their computing platform e.g. PDA laptop smart phone etc. the requested users may be allowed to access the workflow. Once validated the workflow manager allows the requested users to see the entire workflow i.e. not just the specific work steps or a portion of the workflow . The requested users may also perform any suitable operation on the workflow such as examining the data re running a particular work step adding a work step to the workflow and or sending a recommendation back to the requesting user. During this time the requested users has the option to check out and or lock the workflow while working on it. When the requested users are finished with the workflow the workflow manager releases the lock and saves the modifications if any along with any data generated. The workflow manager may thereafter send a message to the requesting user informing him her of the recommendations and changes made by the requested users.

Briefly the processor is responsible for the overall operation of the workflow server including executing of the operating system software and any other software applications that may be present on the workflow server . The I O unit controls the flow of data into and out of the workflow server for example through various media reader devices and output devices. The system bus allows the various functional components of the workflow server to communicate and exchange data with one another. The computer readable memory which may be a magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory provides temporary and long term storage for any information or data needed by the operating system and applications running on the workflow server . Finally the network may be an Ethernet based wired and or wireless network for connecting the workflow server to other networks systems databases and the like.

In accordance with preferred embodiments a workflow manager may be stored in the computer readable memory for performing the various workflow functions described above with respect to . For example the workflow manager may provide a graphical user interface that allows the user to graphically define edit and run the workflow. In addition the graphical user interface may use lines to express both execution flow and data flow. This makes it possible to represent both execution flow and data flow in a single workflow diagram. The graphical user interface may display a variety of user selectable views to facilitate visualization of the workflow. For example the graphical user interface may show both data flow and execution flow lines show only data flow lines show only execution flow lines show data flow lines as solid lines on top and execution flow lines as shadow lines on the background and show execution flow lines as solid lines on top and data flow lines as shadows in the background. Color line width and line patterns may also be used to distinguish between data flow lines and execution flow lines. Furthermore the workflow manager allows users to dynamically modify a workflow to add contact information for one or more other users e.g. domain expert senior engineer etc. to at least one work step. Users may then instruct the workflow manager to suspend running of the workflow if needed at any modified work step and request consultation collaboration and or approval including signoff from the other users associated with that work step.

In operation a user may define a workflow by clicking and dragging one or more work steps from the work step selection panel and dropping the selected work steps into the workflow diagram panel . As work steps are added to the workflow diagram panel these work steps are automatically updated in the workflow tree shown in the workflow tree panel . When dropped into the workflow diagram panel each work step is represented as a rectangle that includes one or more handles. In one example data handles are on the left and right sides of the rectangle and represent data inputs and outputs respectively while execution handles are on the top and bottom of the rectangle and represent previous and subsequent execution steps respectively. The number and type of data handles available with each work step depends on the particular function or task performed by that work step . Conversely every work step has only one previous execution handle and one subsequent execution handle.

FIGS. B and B B illustrate a more developed version of the workflow . As can be seen several work steps have now been connected to each other by their execution handles and data handles. The connection between the execution handles is represented by vertically flowing lines whereas the connection between the data handles is represented by horizontally flowing lines . In one example connecting of the various handles to each other may be accomplished by dragging respectively the execution or data handles of one work step to the execution or data handles of another work step . In addition or alternatively the various handles may be automatically connected i.e. snapped together simply by bringing the handles of the work steps in close proximity to one another. Of course execution handles may not be connected to data handles or vice versa. Similarly data handles that represent disparate types of data e.g. seismic data versus porosity data may not be connected together.

In accordance with preferred embodiments users may dynamically modify the workflow at any time to add contact information for one or more other users e.g. domain expert senior engineer etc. to at least one work step . Such contact information may include for example email addresses telephone numbers page numbers fax numbers and the like. The users may simply enter the contact information into the work steps of the workflow without having to modify any programming codes or scripts underlying the work steps or the workflow . Such information entry may be effected using any technique known to those having ordinary skill in the art including a menu option popup dialogue box hot key and the like. Moreover in some implementations certain work steps may have a pre assigned list of domain experts senior engineers and the like that may be displayed and the users may simply select one or more such domain experts senior engineers and the like for consultation collaboration and or approval including signoff .

Once the workflow is completed or at any time beforehand the user may run the workflow by clicking an appropriate button . The workflow manager thereafter automatically executes each work step or executes an application associated with the work step according to its position in the workflow . Fork blocks and join blocks allow the user to define parallel execution flows for work steps that are to be performed in parallel. Any individual work step may also be executed in isolation. For example by right clicking on a work step the user may bring up a dialog box containing a number of options that may be selected including an option to run or rerun the work step . Furthermore the user may also suspend running of any work step at any time and cause the workflow manager to send a request for consultation collaboration and or approval including signoff to one or more other users. In some examples an activities panel displays status information for each work step including whether the work step has been suspended completed e.g. by using a checkmark indicator the time and date it was suspended or completed and so forth.

In some embodiments as the user is defining the graphical representation of the workflow in the workflow diagram panel the workflow manager may also generate a text based or script based representation of the workflow . Such a text based or script based representation may express the execution flow as a series of steps while data flow may be represented by using data labels as the inputs and outputs for each step in the script.

The method begins at step where a workflow manager much like the workflow manager of is provided for example on a workflow server much like the workflow server of . At step users are allowed to use the workflow manager or rather the graphical user interface thereof to define edit and automatically run a workflow including a plurality of work steps. At any time contact information may be received from the users for one or more domain experts senior engineers and the like at step . Once the workflow is completed or any time beforehand the users may request consultation collaboration and or approval including signoff from domain experts senior engineers and the like at step . At step an electronic message is sent by the workflow manager to the domain experts senior engineers and the like requesting the consultation collaboration and or approval including signoff . During this time the users have the option of suspending the work step for which consultation collaboration and or approval including signoff was requested pending input from the domain experts senior engineers and the like at step . The domain experts senior engineers and the like may thereafter access the entire workflow to review the data re running a particular work step adding a work step to the workflow and or sending a recommendation back to the user at step . At step the user is informed of the changes to the workflow and or recommendations from the domain experts senior engineers and the like.

The foregoing description is provided for purposes of illustrating explaining and describing certain aspects of the invention in particular detail. Other aspects besides the ones described herein may exist and or be developed. Thus those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that modifications and adaptations to the described methods systems and other embodiments may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

