---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for implementing data asset management activities
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products for implementing data asset management activities are provided. A method includes defining authorization and authentication permissions for accessing network entities of an organization, defining rules for conducting audits and audit response activities with respect to the network entities, and executing an audit of the network entities by applying the rules to events occurring at the network entities during the audit. The method also includes generating a summary of results of the audit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676962&OS=08676962&RS=08676962
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08676962
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
The present disclosure relates generally to information management and in particular to methods systems and computer program products for implementing data asset management activities for an enterprise.

Small and medium businesses are now facing the same challenges of large enterprises with the explosion of data structured partially structured and unstructured globalization outsourcing and rapid resource turnover rates managing data access in an ever changing environment of legal and corporate compliance issues combined with the ongoing struggle to make operations more efficient through consolidation.

Few businesses have a full accounting of the information technology IT assets that support their processes. This may inhibit their ability to develop a roadmap for infrastructure and process simplification. In an environment where acquisitions are commonplace and corporations are routinely moving to outsourcing models for IT infrastructure and manufacturing the problem of data movement and persistence of duplicate data within the enterprise is a growing challenge which if unchecked may have an immediate cost to their IT budgets and erode their ability to be agile in changing their processes to meet business needs.

Corporations also have long promoted the notion of division brand geography etc. competition within medium to large enterprises which has bred a culture of allowing ad hoc access to information where the data would be captured from the corporate sources and re purposed for establishing metrics for performance analysis forecasting etc. This ad hoc pattern and the resulting data proliferation may diminish an enterprise s ability to be agile when changes are needed. As a result the enterprise may not know what effect the retirement of an asset or the centralization of an IT asset will have on the overall business. Though ad hoc users are generally given an approved authority for their usage of an information domain the extraction of information from enterprise sources and the persisting and re purposing of the information domains combined with the addition of other information domains may have a negative impact to the business particularly from a compliance perspective and may further distract businesses with multiple reporting and measurement processes and multiple versions of the truth for metrics.

What is needed therefore is a way to deliver proactive discovery of data proliferation and a system for managing this information.

Embodiments of the invention include methods for implementing data asset management activities. A method includes defining authorization and authentication permissions for accessing network entities of an organization defining rules for conducting audits and audit response activities with respect to the network entities and executing an audit of the network entities by applying the rules to events occurring at the network entities during the audit. The method also includes generating a summary of results of the audit.

Additional embodiments include systems for implementing data asset management activities. A system includes a host system executing a data steward rules engine. The data steward rules engine implements a method. The method includes defining authorization and authentication permissions for accessing network entities of an organization defining rules for conducting audits and audit response activities with respect to the network entities and executing an audit of the network entities by applying the rules to events occurring at the network entities during the audit. The method also includes generating a summary of results of the audit.

Further embodiments include a computer program product for implementing data asset management activities. A computer program product includes instructions for causing a computer to implement a method. The method includes defining authorization and authentication permissions for accessing network entities of an organization defining rules for conducting audits and audit response activities with respect to the network entities and executing an audit of the network entities by applying the rules to events occurring at the network entities during the audit. The method also includes generating a summary of results of the audit.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the exemplary embodiments of the invention together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

Methods systems and computer program products for implementing data asset management activities are provided in accordance with exemplary embodiments. The data asset management activities utilize a number of standard information technology IT patterns and provide an infrastructure for compliance measurement with a focus on the unknown proliferation of data within the enterprise supporting anonymous processes that are known to destabilize large enterprises add ongoing support costs and add to the complexity of the IT infrastructure thereby reducing its agility to change.

The data asset management activities are designed to give objective information to designated individuals e.g. data stewards of the enterprise or organization to allow effective end to end management of the data assets e.g. databases system resources applications etc. for the enterprise. This may be accomplished in part using probe technology to discover deposits of data e.g. structured partially structured and unstructured content that can then be assessed against business and regulatory controls which are defined as rules. The results of the probes and key performance indicators KPIs achieved per the defined rules are then deposited into a data warehouse for mining and reporting on opportunities for simplifying the information delivery infrastructure reducing the number of actors accessing information and gaining positive control and knowledge of the processes requiring the information.

Turning now to a system upon which the data asset management activities may be implemented in accordance with exemplary embodiments will now be described. The system of includes network entities in communication with one another via one or more networks . For purposes of illustration the system of includes a business enterprise. It will be understood that the system of may also include trading partners of the business enterprise that share information over a secure network.

Each of network entities and may be implemented using a general purpose computer executing a computer program for carrying out the processes described herein. The network entities and may be personal computers e.g. a lap top a personal digital assistant or host attached terminals. In exemplary embodiments network entity refers to a user system operated by a member of the enterprise network entity refers to a data steward client system and network entity refers to a non compliant application owning management AOM system.

In exemplary embodiments user system is operated by an ad hoc user. An ad hoc user may be defined as an authorized user of any trusted data warehouse or operational system within the enterprise system of . An ad hoc user may utilize business intelligence or database tools to extract information from those trusted warehouses where the content of the extract and the volume of the extracts are unknown. Data steward client system is operated by a data steward within the enterprise. The data steward is tasked with the responsibility of creating the technical definitions of the data within the scope of their particular domain. Data domains refer to organized groups of data e.g. customer information product information fulfillment information contract information customer service management information etc. The data steward may also be responsible for the end to end use distribution and validity of the data within their domain. The AOM system may be operated by a management individual who is responsible for either of the ad hoc user or enterprise server as well as the remediation of any non compliances associated therewith.

Each of network entities and may be implemented using one or more servers operating in response to a computer program stored in a storage medium accessible by the servers. The network entities and may operate as network servers e.g. web servers to communicate with other network entities e.g. entities and . The network entities and handle sending and receiving information to and from other network entities and can perform associated tasks. The network entities and may also include a firewall to prevent unauthorized access thereto and enforce any limitations on authorized access. For instance an administrator may have access to the entire system and have authority to modify portions of the system. A firewall may be implemented using conventional hardware and or software as is known in the art.

The network entities and may also operate as application servers. The network entity refers to a host system that executes one or more computer programs to provide the data asset management functions. As previously described it is understood that separate servers may be utilized to implement the network server functions and the application server functions. Alternatively the network server the firewall and the application server may be implemented by a single server executing computer programs to perform the requisite functions.

Host system may implement a variety of business applications typically used in a business environment. In addition host system executes a business intelligence and or database management application an authorization application programming interface API an authentication API and a data steward rules engine and user interface for facilitating the data asset management activities.

Network entity refers to an enterprise server of the organization. The enterprise server may be defined as any deployed server within the enterprise of the system of that is used in the course of conducting business operations.

In exemplary embodiments each of network entities includes probe instrumentation. The probe instrumentation enables auditing of the network entities as described herein.

While only one each of a user system enterprise server DS client system and NC application owning management system are shown it will be understood that multiple user systems enterprise servers DS client systems and NC AOM systems may be employed to realize the advantages of the exemplary embodiments.

Networks may be any type of known networks including but not limited to a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a global network e.g. Internet a virtual private network VPN and an intranet. The networks may be implemented using a wireless network or any kind of physical network implementation known in the art. Network entities may be in communication through multiple networks e.g. intranet and Internet so that not all network entities are coupled through the same network. In one embodiment the network is an intranet and one or more network entities execute a user interface application e.g. a web browser to contact the host system through the network .

Host system is in communication with storage devices and . The storage devices and may be implemented as data repositories used in providing the data asset management functions. It is understood that the storage devices and may be implemented using memory contained in the host system or that they may be separate physical devices. The storage devices and are logically addressable as consolidated data sources across a distributed environment that includes networks . Information stored in the storage devices and may be retrieved and manipulated via the network entities and or .

The data repositories include one or more databases containing information used in providing the data asset management functions. For example storage device refers to a data warehouse that stores data steward information including metrics rules scorecards and history data. The history data includes results of the probes results of applications of the rules to the probes and related information that may be used in data mining activities as described further herein. Storage device stores data pattern definitions meta data used for data standards response measures and notification hierarchies. A data pattern refers to multiple instances of similar or like data. For example a data pattern relating to a customer information data domain may include a specified number of address data instances associated with a system or user. A data steward responsible for customer information may define a data pattern that includes address data e.g. terms such as street st state etc. Response measures include actions defined for responding to non compliances determined as a result of a probe. Notification rules may be established for identifying individuals to be notified upon the occurrence of an event e.g. a particular non compliance event .

Storage device stores compliance report cards and simplification strategies. Compliance report cards and simplification strategies are described further herein.

The data asset management functions utilize numerous standard IT patterns to deliver information to a new process of proactively evaluating the placement of data assets and a management system to discover and manage processes within the enterprise thereby enabling process simplification.

Turning now to an exemplary process for implementing the data asset management activities will now be described.

At step a data steward at DS client system defines authorization and authentication requirements for users of data assets associated with his her data domain.

At step the data steward defines rules for conducting audits and audit response activities. In addition the data steward defines rules for generating notifications that include designating one or more individuals of the enterprise who should receive the notifications. The notification profile management hierarchy rule definition and pattern definitions may be represented as a user interface of the data steward rules engine . For example a user interface screen illustrating sample data fields for use in defining rules is shown in .

As shown in user interface screen data fields are provided for defining rules to be applied to specified probes. By way of example a rule may be defined that looks at a data pattern e.g. address information and if a number of instantiations of the data e.g. rows discovered in the probe exceed a pre defined limit or range as specified in fields and the network entity and or user of the network entity is determined to be non compliant. There may be several instances of non compliance where multiple rules are established for a specific probe.

As indicated above the network entities deployed within the enterprise system of include probe instrumentation. Periodically a probe agent of the instrumentation calls in to the data steward rules engine the authorization and authentication APIs and respectively as well as storage device to retrieve the latest set of data patterns. When a data pattern has been identified via events occurring on the network entity e.g. access use manipulation or retrieval of data from a data asset the information is be collected e.g. a number of hits detected for the system and a sample of the data is sent with the instance hits as well as system user identifiers back to the data steward rules engine and storage device .

At step results of the audit are gathered and summarized. A user interface screen depicting a sample probe output summary is shown in .

The data steward rules engine uses the probe results and executes the data steward rules in conjunction with the authorization and authentication information for the user e.g. user system or server e.g. server that was probed to determine if any of the established guidelines of the data steward have been violated as defined by the rules. In exemplary embodiments the data steward rules engine may be implemented for all enterprise data stewards for all domains. This rules engine may contain agreed upon multi domain rules for the enterprise. The data steward rules engine may also access the metrics definitions in storage device which provides a guide for interpreting the probe data after the rules have been executed against the probe data. The data steward rules engine also accesses the notification profiles and hierarchy e.g. management notification asset ownership reference data in storage device which specifies who should be notified of results of the probes based upon the defined rules. At step the data steward responsible for the data assets probed in the audit is identified and the results are made available to the data steward for review at step . As indicated above non compliance is determined when execution of an audit indicates that a value specified in the rules criteria is out of a specified range. As shown in the user interface screen of a window lists each instance of non compliance for a given probe rule. In order to view additional information concerning the non compliance a user e.g. data steward may select a line in the window e.g. line and the data steward rules engine displays a second window that identifies the name of the probe first column and the corresponding value second column .

At step it is determined whether any non compliances have been detected. If so a simplification strategy for the non compliance is generated at step . The output of the rules engine processing the probe information is deposited into storage device also referred to herein as enterprise simplification data warehouse via e.g. transformation and load processes to the enterprise simplification data warehouse whereby the metrics definitions are applied and placed in the warehouse . The output is aggregated with other similar probe outputs in the data warehouse . The enterprise simplification data warehouse provides details of the assessments with the business rules applied to then leverage data mining tools to characterize the enterprise landscape in terms of where data currently resides by quantity. This information may be used to confirm any need to know rules and validate that the current assumptions regarding data flows are factual. A simplification strategy may suggest removal of duplicate data as well as re purposing of existing data. For example if a particular user is discovered to have unauthorized access to a data asset pursuant to an evaluation of the use of the data by the user it may be suggested that the user be authorized access to the data for a specified limited purpose. A simplification strategy may also recommend additional restrictive controls over a data asset e.g. a database of personal customer information whereby additional or modified authorization and authentication requirements are placed on the data asset with respect to specified users.

The simplification strategy is distributed to network entities e.g. NC AOM identified by the notification rules generated above in step in addition to a compliance or non compliance report card at step . If no non compliances were detected at step the compliance report card is generated and distributed to network entities e.g. NC AOM identified by the notification rules generated above in step . The simplification strategy is reviewed and implemented for the enterprise.

Given the content of the enterprise simplification data warehouse the data steward has the insight to validate the current view of information assets and identify gaps with the strategic or desired view. If gaps are identified this enables the data steward to then formulate a factual accounting of the IT assets containing data within his her domain and formulate a compliance scorecard for the application owners e.g. users of AOM system that are identified in the gap via a reporting function. This allows a positive non subjective approach to managing the information flows within the business rather than relying on folklore and manual subjective surveys to render compliance responses. The reports mining opportunities from reporting function allows the data steward to also identify any anonymous processes for the enterprise that are currently being supported by IT assets that are not considered strategic. This gives the enterprise the opportunity to address the process and project a target IT asset for accommodation.

As described above embodiments can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. In exemplary embodiments the invention is embodied in computer program code executed by one or more network elements. Embodiments include computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. Embodiments include computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

