---

title: Information distribution and processing system
abstract: An information distribution and processing system contains a remote site, a sender and a receiving apparatus. The remote site contains a first set of digital data. The sender delivers a second set of digital data to the receiving device. In one embodiment of the present invention, the receiving device contain a timing device for automatically receiving the second set of digital data at predetermined times. The second set of digital data contains a first set of displayable data, a second set of displayable data, at least one non-displayable symbol, and at least one linking reference associated with the second set of displayable data. If desired, a user can select the second set of displayable data. The associated linking reference is sent to the remote site. The associated linking reference is used by the remote site to search for the additional information, and returns the requested information to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07830830&OS=07830830&RS=07830830
owner: Data Innovation LLC
number: 07830830
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070709
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 073 124 filed Feb. 9 2002 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 812 003 filed Mar. 19 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 349 409 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 434 413 filed Nov. 4 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 317 785 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 08 939 368 filed Sep. 29 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 021 307 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 644 838 filed May 10 1996 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 279 424 filed Jul. 25 1994 now abandoned and application Ser. No. 08 255 649 filed Jun. 8 1994 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 224 280 filed Apr. 7 1994 now abandoned all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to information distribution and processing and more particularly to distributing information using a broadcast channel and a bi directional communication channel.

Recent advances in modem and computer technology allow large amount of digital data to be transmitted electronically. A number of information providers such as newspaper and magazine publishers and on line information distributors such as America Online Dialog and Nexis have formed partnerships to deliver newspaper and other information on line. In this system a subscriber uses a computer and a modem to connect e.g. through a regular phone line to the computer of an on line information distributor. The subscriber can retrieve information including newspaper articles stored in the computer of the information distributor.

On line delivery of newspaper has many advantages. For example the information can be updated throughout the day while the printed version is printed only once or twice a day. Further it is possible to do text based searches on the information. However it is found that on line deliver of newspaper and other information is slow. For example a subscriber has to wait many seconds for a newspaper article to be delivered. The quality of the electronic newspaper is low. For example in order to reduce storage and communication requirements graphic images appeared in the printed version are not universally supplied in the on line version of newspaper. One of the reasons for such poor performance is the limited bandwidth of communication channels used by on line information distributors. Another reason is that information is centrally processed by the computer at the site of the information distributor with the result that each subscriber only gets a small slice of the time of the computer.

Another way to communication information on line is through the Internet which is a worldwide interconnection of millions of computers from low end personal computers to high end mainframes. An important development in the Internet is the World Wide Web the Web . The Web is a wide area hypermedia information delivery and retrieval system aimed to give universal access to a large universe of documents. When the Web was first developed around 1989 it was known to and used by the academic research community only as a means for fast disseminating of information. There was no easily available tool which allows a technically untrained person to access the Web. An important development is the release of a Web browser around 1993. It has a simple but powerful graphic interface. The browser allows a user to retrieve web documents and navigate the Web using simple commands and popular tools such as point and click. Because the user does not have to be technically trained and the browser is easy to use it has the potential of opening up the Internet to the masses.

A document designed to be accessed and read over the web is called a web page. Each web page must have an address in a recognized format the URL or Uniform Resource Locator that enables computers all over the world to access it. Each web page has an unique URL. A web page typically contains both text and images. It is also possible to include audio and movie data.

The Web faces the same problem as the regular on line delivery of information. This is because most people use the above described modem to access the Internet. Thus the data transfer rate of the Web is also limited. Because multimedia data comprising a combination of text graphic video and or audio has a large data size even when compressed it could take a long time to retrieve a document from the Web. Further it is difficult to prevent unauthorized persons from access a web page because more than 20 million people in the world has access to the Internet.

The present invention uses two channels to deliver digital information a broadcast channel and a bi directional channel. The broadcast channel is used to deliver the bulb of the digital information to subscribers. The amount of information delivered is preferably sufficient to satisfy the needs of a large number of subscribers so that they do not have to obtain additional information using the bi directional channel. The broadcast information is stored on fast storage media located at subscriber sites. As a result search and retrieval of the broadcast information is quick. Further the broadcast information is processed locally using a dedicated on site processor instead of relying on the computers of the information distributors. As a result the load on the computers of the information distributors is reduced. If the subscribers desire to receive additional information relating to the broadcast information the bi directional communication channel is used to transmit the request and the requested information.

The distribution costs of broadcast channels are typically much lower than that of a bi directional communication channel. Consequently the major portion of information is delivered using low cost distribution channels. For a large number of subscribers the broadcast information will provide all the information they normally need. Thus expensive bi directional communication channels are used only occasionally.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be fully understood by referring to the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention comprises a novel information distribution and processing system and related methods. The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications to the preferred embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

The present invention can be used to solve the above described problem of digital information delivery. It uses two channels to deliver digital information a broadcast channel and a bi directional channel. The broadcast channel is used to deliver the bulb of the digital information from a source to subscribers. The time for broadcasting is preferably during a time of low communication load e.g. off peak hours . Upon receiving the broadcast information is stored on storage media located at subscriber sites. If the subscribers desire to receive additional information relating to the broadcast information the bi directional communication channel is used to transmit the request and the requested information.

The data transfer rate of the storage media more than a million bytes per second could be hundreds of times faster than that of a modem. As a result search and retrieval of the broadcast information is quick. Further the broadcast information is processed locally using a dedicated on site processor instead of relying on the computers of the information distributors. As a result the load on the computers of the information distributors is reduced. Even though the requested information is delivered using a regular low bandwidth communication channel the performance of the system would not be severely affected because the requested information is only a small fraction of the broadcast information.

In one embodiment of the present invention the broadcast information can be sent in the clear while the requested information which may contain commercially valuable information is encrypted. Because the amount of requested information is a small fraction of the broadcast information there is no need to use much computer resource to process the requested and encrypted information. In a different embodiment of the invention the broadcast information is encrypted using a simple algorithm while the requested information is encrypted using a complex algorithm. Even though extra computer resource is used to decrypt the broadcast information this embodiment may be useful for the case where it is not desirable for the public to view the broadcast information.

It should be noted that the word channel is not limited to a specific kind of physical communication link. The word channel merely means a path for communicating information. The term broadcast channel means a path allowing an information source to deliver digital information to many recipients almost simultaneously. The term bi directional channel means a path allowing one to one interactive communication between a source and a recipient. These two channels could use the same physical communication link e.g. telephone lines television cable lines wireless optical links etc. to perform their respective functions. That is the same physical communication link can support both broadcast and bi directional channels.

The structure of these subscriber units are substantially identical consequently only one of these units such as unit is described in detail. Unit contains an antenna for receiving broadcast signals from satellite transponder a signal data processor for performing signal and data processing functions a monitor for displaying the digital newspaper and an input device such as a keyboard and or a mouse .

Signal data processor contains a transponder interface for processing transponder signal received from antenna . Transponder interface preferably contains a low noise receiver for receiving high frequency e.g. C or Ku band transponder signal and a universal data interface for converting the transponder signal to digital data. The retrieved data is stored in nonvolatile storage such as a hard disk or solid state flash memory. Preferably satellite transponder broadcasts the newspaper data at predetermined times. Thus a real time clock is preferably used to turn on interface at the predetermined times. Processor contains a microcomputer which coordinates the operation of clock nonvolatile storage and interface . Microcomputer preferably contains a central processing unit CPU random access memory RAM and peripheral interface devices. Processor also contains a communication interface for sending and receiving digital data from database through modem .

The time for broadcast is preferably chosen when communication load of transponder is at a low level e.g. around mid night . As a result the cost of information delivery is low. Alternatively the time of broadcasting is chosen by transponder because it knows when communication load is light. In this case transponder first sends a signal to signal data processor for alerting processor to receive and process the newspaper information.

A user can use the input device and monitor to read the content of the digital newspaper stored in nonvolatile storage . In one embodiment the complete content of the newspaper is stored in nonvolatile storage . The term complete content means that the user is able to read the newspaper without relying on information stored in database although other embodiments may deliver less than the complete content . In this aspect system functions in a similar way as the distribution of a conventional printed newspaper. However the digital data of the digital newspaper delivered by satellite transponder preferably contains linkage references such as pointers which allow fast retrieval of additional information from database .

If the newspaper information received from satellite transponder is sufficient to satisfy the needs of a user signal data processor will not activate modem . However if the user wishes to receive additional information relating to an item mentioned in the digital newspaper e.g. by selecting the item using the input device processor will retrieve the information stored in database using the embedded linkage reference.

In system of the present invention the received digital newspaper including graphics and other multimedia contents is stored in nonvolatile storage which has fast access time. Further a dedicated processor i.e. microcomputer is used to process newspaper information. On the other hand prior art on line newspaper distribution systems rely on modem to deliver the content of the newspaper stored in a central site. Further the processor in the central site has to serve many users in delivering the newspaper. As a result system has superior performance compared to prior art on line newspaper delivery systems.

In one embodiment of the present invention commercially valuable information is encrypted and stored in database . The broadcast information does not contain this information. Thus in this embodiment less than the complete content is delivered by the broadcast channel. In this case the broadcast information would not be useful unless a decryption key is available to decrypt the information obtained from database . As a result only subscribers who have a decryption key are able to obtain meaningful information from the newspaper. In the case microcomputer also performs decryption functions. Alternatively a separate decryptor can be included in signal data processor .

It should be appreciated that even though only one database is shown in the valuable information could be distributed to several databases. Further the digital newspaper and database could be physically located in the same site.

If it is not desirable for the public to read the broadcast information the data transmitted by transponder could also be encrypted. In this case simple encryption algorithm could be used to encrypt the broadcast information while complex encryption algorithm is used to encrypt the valuable information in database . A potential hacker would not be motivated to decrypt and make public the broadcast information unless he she can also decrypt the valuable information.

When an underlined term in is selected by a user microcomputer extracts the linkage reference and transmits it to database . The linkage reference allows database to retrieve the necessary information quickly without doing extensive searches. As a result the response time of system is fast. The retrieved information can itself contains linkage references and can be searched.

If the speed of searching and retrieving data by database is fast it may not be necessary to include linkage reference in the broadcast information transmitted by transponder . In this case the user selects e.g. using an input device such as a mouse words and terms he she is interested in. Signal data processor transmits the selected items to database which searches for matches in its database. Matched information is sent to subscriber unit for processing.

The bi directional channel also allows updating of the broadcast information. There is typically a time difference between the broadcast and display of information. New information gathered during this time difference can be stored in database and later transmitted to signal data processor

In this embodiment of the present invention satellite transponder is used as the vehicle to electronically broadcast newspaper. However other broadcast distribution methods can be used. One method is to use the Internet to broadcast the information. Also note that the broadcast distribution channels do not have to be electrical. For example the present invention allows the distribution of CDROMs encoded with digital information to the subscriber sites. In the case of electrical broadcast communication channels both wired and wireless can be used. Preferably unidirectional channels are used for broadcast because of their low cost however the present invention does not preclude the use of bi directional communication channels such as telephone lines as means for distributing broadcast i.e. one to many information.

Current technology allows the size of antenna to be as small as 2 feet. The costs of antenna and transponder interface is already low enough to be within the reach of small business or a typical household. The newspaper publisher has to pay for the use of the transponder. However the costs is comparable to the printing and distribution costs of printed newspaper. It is anticipated that the costs of the newspaper distribution system in accordance with the present invention will be lowered as the number of subscribers increases.

In some locations it may not be desirable to use wired communication channel to link an earth station to subscribers. In such case wireless communication channel could be used. shows an earth station which receives transponder signal from transponder using an antenna . Earth station in turn broadcasts the digital data to its subscribers such as subscriber units and .

In one embodiment of system teletext technology is used to link earth station and subscriber units and . Thus earth station could be located adjacent to a television transmission station. The digital data received by earth station can be integrated to the vertical blanking interval of a TV signal which is broadcasted using an antenna . Subscriber units and receive the signal using antennas and respectively. The digital data is then retrieved. Various improvements and refinements of the teletext technology are well known and can be incorporated into system

It should be obvious to a person skilled in the art that systems and are not limited to the distribution of newspaper. Further digital newspapers of the future may contains contents which are not available in the printed version such as multimedia compositions. Other information such as magazines graphic images electronic mails computer games multimedia work or interactive movie could also be advantageously distribution using a system similar to systems and . For example if it is desirable to distribute interactive movie the non interactive portion can be broadcast while the interactive portion is delivered using a bi directional channel.

The present invention can also be used in information distribution using a digital data network. is a drawing showing a network system of the present invention. System contains a data communication network which could be a local area network or a wide area network. System also contains a plurality of client computers such as computers and a plurality of server computers such as servers and . These computers are connected to network using a plurality of network access devices such as modems for connecting the client computers to dial up lines and channel service units for connecting the server computers to T1 lines or lines of higher data rates . Preferably the digital newspaper data and the database is stored in the servers. The digital newspaper data will be broadcasted by a server to the client computers either at a predetermined time or upon request. Upon receiving the broadcast data the clients stores the data in its nonvolatile memory such as its hard disk .

The structure of the client computers could be similar to subscriber unit of except that the antenna such as antenna may correspond to the connection from the client computers to network and interface may correspond to the network access device. For example client computer may contain a signal data processor a monitor an input device and an antenna . The client computers can communicate with the database server which corresponds to database of . It should be noted that both the database and the digital newspaper data could be located on the same server. Further the digital newspaper data and the database information could be distributed among many servers.

In the bi directional channel is a separate physical communication link i.e. telephone which is different from a satellite link . In it is possible to use network as both the broadcast channel and the bi directional channel. This is an example that the same physical link supports both broadcast and bi directional channels. Thus these channels are defined by their functionality instead of by their physical characteristics.

In the Internet information can be broadcasted by sending the same information to a plurality of electronic mail or URL addresses. Alternatively information can be sent using a multicasting protocol. The client computers contain a browser which could read the broadcast digital information. The database server contains a plurality of files containing information related to the broadcast information. In the Web environment the broadcast information is a hypertext markup language HTML document contains links e.g. in the form of HTML tags containing URL addresses of these related files in the database server . A user can use a browser running on a client computer to read the broadcast HTML document. These tags are typically rendered as highlighted text or images by the browser. Upon seeing these indication of links a user can click on these indications and the client computers can accesses information in selected files by sending requests to these URL addresses. The server can then deliver the requested information to the subscribers using standard Web protocol. As pointed out above these files may be encrypted and only authorized users can read the content of these files.

Some networks systems support distributive processing. These networks allows applets to be distributed from one computer client and sever to another computer for execution. An example of such a system is the Java and HotJava environment on the Web. The present invention can be applied to these network systems. Only some of the applets preferably the most important ones need to be encrypted while most of the applets can be sent in the clear or slightly encrypted .

In the embodiments shown in and the encryption can be performed at the time information in the database is delivered to the subscribers. Different encryption keys could be used. Methods of delivering the decryption keys to the subscribers via insecure communication channels have been described above and will not be repeated here.

There has thus shown and described a novel information distribution and process system. Many changes modifications variations and other uses and application of the subject invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art after considering this specification and the accompanying drawings. All such changes modifications variations uses and applications are covered by the scope of this invention which is limited only by the appended claims.

