---

title: Data mining and reporting
abstract: An integrated system is described that allows a user to easily mine and report data maintained by a customer relationship management (CRM) application. In general, the system automates the process of creating electronic reports, such as an electronic worksheet, in a format that can be directly manipulated and viewed from spreadsheet application. In one embodiment, the report is automatically generated to include a pivot table for displaying the data. The system includes a database adapted to store the CRM data. First and second reporting modules execute within the CRM software application and the worksheet software application, respectively. The reporting modules cooperate in order to integrate CRM application and spreadsheet application, thereby automating the process of generating a worksheet based on the CRM database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945850&OS=07945850&RS=07945850
owner: MasterMine Software, Inc.
number: 07945850
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070227
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 738 639 filed on Dec. 15 2000 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 175 025 filed Jan. 27 2000 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Conventional Customer Relationship Management CRM software applications are used to manage all aspects of customer relations by integrating a company s sales force processes sales channels and customers into one environment. For example FrontRange Solutions of Colorado Springs Colo. offers Goldmine which is a suite of software applications for managing sales marketing service and support. Most CRM applications typically include a report generation module for viewing the customer information CRM data using a variety of predefined or custom reports. In addition the applications may allow the user to export the CRM data to a spreadsheet software application for more detailed analysis. For example a user may use Microsoft Excel provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. to manipulate and view the CRM data. Typically the CRM data is exported in a tab delimited format that can be imported by the spreadsheet software application.

CRM application represents any conventional CRM environment that integrates customer related business functions such as sales marketing service and support. CRM application stores CRM data such as sales and marketing information within CRM database . In one configuration CRM database is a relational database in which the data is organized according to a number of tables and relationships. Example of such databases include SQL Server and Microsoft Access provided by Microsoft Corporation Oracle provided by Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif. and dBase IV.

Spreadsheet application represents any conventional spreadsheet data analysis software application such as Microsoft Excel provided by Microsoft Corporation Quattro Pro of Corel and Lotus 1 2 3 of Lotus Development Corporation. Using spreadsheet application a user can view electronic worksheet which may be one of a number of worksheets organized as a workbook.

Reporting modules cooperate in order to integrate CRM application and spreadsheet application thereby automating the process of generating worksheet based on CRM database . In particular reporting modules automatically generate multi dimensional analysis table within electronic worksheet according to the CRM data within CRM database . Multi dimensional analysis table represents an analytical function commonly referred to as a pivot table or as a cross tab supported by a variety of spreadsheet environments for displaying large amounts of data. Table allows the user to quickly and easily summarizes or view large amounts of CRM data. For example the user can rotate the rows and columns of table to see different summaries of the CRM data filter the data by displaying different pages or display the details for area of interest.

As discussed in detail below CRM reporting module A is installed within CRM application and when invoked by the user examines the schema and data structures of CRM database as well as customized settings like local field names within CRM application . Reporting module A then interacts with reporting module B installed within spreadsheet application and reporting module C of worksheet to create table within worksheet . In this manner the user can create a comprehensive multi dimensional analysis table by only entering a few parameters thereby significantly reducing the skill normally required to generate multi dimensional analysis tables. The process takes CRM data structures both native and customized into account to give the user simple yet powerful access to their CRM data in a context they can understand i.e. using field names that they have set for their particular business . Reporting modules A and B may be executable files invoked by CRM application or spreadsheet application or for example may be plug in modules executed by the respective applications.

System includes one or more report toolkits that include pre defined report parameters and one or more worksheet templates . Worksheet template includes reporting component C for formatting table once created as described below.

CRM reporting module A may use an interprocess communication mechanism or other suitable method to communicate the parameters to worksheet application and to invoke report modules B and C for formatting worksheet . For example in one configuration reporting modules B and C are Visual Basic Application scripts that are directly callable by reporting component A. In this configuration reporting component A can comprise an executable program written in the Visual Basic language. Alternatively other suitable means include Dynamic Data Exchange DDE Object Linking and Embedding OLE or Component Object Model COM which are interprocess communication mechanisms supported by various operating systems and allow applications to share data.

The availability of table and its supported functions vastly improves the user s ability to analyze the CRM data stored within CRM database . After table is generated the user can interact with spreadsheet application to manipulate table in order to analyze the captured CRM data and mine the data for important insights. Furthermore after viewing the CRM data within the format of table the user can select any amount of the CRM data and automatically invoke CRM application to view the corresponding transactional records such as a record of a sales call.

CRM application and spreadsheet application execute simultaneously on a computer having an operating system e.g. the Windows operating system from Microsoft Corporation processor and random access memory RAM .

First the user interacts with CRM application and requests the generation of electronic worksheet and table . In response to the request CRM application invokes CRM reporting module A for interacting with the user to capture a number of report generation parameters and reporting module B loaded within spreadsheet application .

Next as described in detail below reporting module A constructs table within worksheet conforming to the format of spreadsheet application and according to user entered parameters combined with pre defined report parameters in toolkit . In particular reporting module A uses captured user parameters to specify toolkit and within toolkit to specify predefined report parameters and worksheet template . Reporting module A then invokes spreadsheet application and directs it to create worksheet as a copy of worksheet template containing worksheet reporting module C. Reporting module A then generates table within worksheet according to report parameters and the captured user parameters.

After generating table reporting module A invokes and cooperates with reporting modules B and C to format and organize table . For example reporting module A invokes and communicates the parameters to B and C for further formatting and organization of table . In one configuration additional formatting procedures in reporting module C are invoked by spreadsheet application the first time worksheet is accessed.

After reporting module B generates electronic worksheet spreadsheet application displays the CRM data as table that can easily be manipulated by the user . In addition worksheet may contain a number of scripts that in conjunction with reporting module B enhance the functionality associated with table .

During the report generating process reporting module A may display a screen that alerts the user to the steps in creating the report including among others 

After analyzing the data within table the user can select one or more entries within table and request to view the underlying CRM data. The user may specify certain records within the underlying data thus displayed for further analysis. In response reporting module B interacts with CRM application to display the corresponding CRM records within CRM application . In this manner system provides an integrated environment that automates the process of creating electronic reports and viewing the corresponding CRM records.

Upon receiving a request to generate an electronic worksheet in pivot table format CRM application invokes reporting module A for capturing a number of parameters from the user. Initially the user selects one of a number of report sets that includes a number of predefined reports. For example report sets may include a database manager s toolkit a salesperson s toolkit a sales manager toolkit and a CFO toolkit . Upon selecting a toolkit the user selects one of a number of predefined reports within the toolkit . Based on the selected report recording module BA analyzes the CRM database and based on the schema for database identifies a number of tables and corresponding fields for inclusion in table .

Reporting module A presents the identified fields to the user and allows the user to include or exclude individual fields from the report . In addition reporting module A allows the user to specify a level of detail such as for example level 1 to level 3 indicating the amount and type of data fields that he or she wishes to include in the report taking hardware and speed limitations into account.

Upon receiving the field selections from a user reporting module A generates a suitable database query string for capturing the appropriate CRM data from CRM database . Reporting module A then presents the database query string to the user and allows the user to modify the query string as appropriate .

In one configuration reporting module A allows the user to set a number of preferences and parameters to control the process of report and field selection. For example the user may enable or disable a number of toolkits elect to default to an expert mode for access to advance report definition functions specify a default start date for the inclusion of historical data and specify a default path to store the resulting electronic reports.

After capturing the parameters from the user as described above reporting module A directs spreadsheet application to access and copy stored worksheet template in toolkit according to the particular report specified by the user thus creating worksheet in the newly created workbook .

Reporting module A then creates table within worksheet by calling a function supported by spreadsheet application which accesses CRM database according to the received database query string . The following illustrates example syntax for a Visual Basic command to create a pivot table within an Excel worksheet in a SQL environment 

After reporting module A creates table within worksheet reporting module B applies the formatting parameters specified by the toolkit selected by the user in order to format the electronic worksheet .

Reporting modules support two mechanisms for linking data within table directly to CRM functions 1 the ability drill down to individual records within CRM application and 2 the ability to create CRM groups. For example within the newly displayed worksheet the user can double click on a single record causing reporting module B to invoke CRM application to display the corresponding record within CRM application . In one configuration reporting utility B includes an embedded macro that issues commands to CRM application via an interprocess control mechanism such as DDE COM or OLE. In response CRM application determines the corresponding CRM account number associated with the selected row within the spreadsheet application and displays the corresponding CRM record .

Alternatively from within worksheet application the user can elect to create a group within the CRM database . In order to specify a group within CRM database reporting module B captures a number of group parameters from within spreadsheet application . For example the user can specify a name for the new group. Reporting module B communicates the group parameters to CRM application that in response creates a group containing every record or a user specified selection of such records in the underlying CRM data displayed by the worksheet application . In one configuration reporting utility B issues commands to CRM application via an interprocess control mechanism such as DDE COM or OLE to create the group.

Various embodiments of the invention have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

