---

title: Identity-based flash management
abstract: Methods, apparatus, and computer code for effecting flash policy configuration operations in accordance with an end-user identifier and/or a host-instance identifier are disclosed herein. Exemplary flash policy configuration operations include (i) configuring a flash error-correction policy, (ii) configuring a flash-management table storage policy; (iii) configuring a wear-leveling policy; (iv) configuring a bad-block management policy and (v) configuring a flash-programming voltage parameter. Exemplary end-user identifiers include but are not limited to email account identifiers, logon user names, and International Mobile Subscriber Identities (IMSI). Exemplary host-instance identifiers may include but are not limited to International Mobile EQUIPMENT Identifiers (IMEI). Optionally, the flash policy configuration is contingent on authentication context data—for example, strength of the authentication (e.g. login/password vs. smartcard authentication or biometric authentication), date of the authentication, and identity provider information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07970983&OS=07970983&RS=07970983
owner: SanDisk IL Ltd.
number: 07970983
owner_city: Kfar Saba
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20071014
---
Non volatile memory is a type of memory that can retain its stored data without a power source. There are several types of non volatile memories with different read write and erase capabilities access times data retention data endurance cycles etc. Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM is capable of performing read write operations on a per byte level which means that each of the memory locations can be individually read and written.

Flash memory comprised of flash type floating gate transistors or cells is a non volatile memory similar in functionality and performance to EEPROM memory flash memory has the advantage of being relatively inexpensive although it operates under certain limitations. It is not possible to rewrite to a previously written location on flash memory without first erasing an entire memory section i.e. the flash cells must be erased e.g. programmed to one before they can be programmed again. Flash memory can only erase relatively large groups of cells usually called erase blocks for example 16 KB to 256 KB in size for many current commercial devices . Therefore updating the contents of a single byte or even a chunk of 1 KB requires housekeeping operations data stored in the erase blocks that are not updated must first be moved elsewhere i.e. relocated so that they will be preserved during the erase operation and then moved back into place after the update.

Sometimes some of the blocks of the flash memory device called bad blocks are not reliable and their use should be avoided. Blocks are declared as bad blocks either by the manufacturer when initially testing the device or by application software when detecting the failure of the blocks during operation of the memory device.

To overcome these limitations a Flash File System FFS is implemented as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 404 485 to Ban incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. FFS provides a system of data storage and manipulation on flash devices that allows these devices to emulate magnetic disks. In the existing art applications or operating systems interact with the flash storage subsystem using virtual addresses rather than using physical addresses. There is an intermediary layer between the software application and the physical device that provides a mapping also referred to herein as a translation from the virtual addresses into the physical addresses. While the application or operating system software may view the storage system as having a contiguous defect free medium that can be read or written randomly with no limitations the physical addressing scheme has holes in its address range due to bad blocks for example and pieces of data that are adjacent to each other in the virtual address range might be greatly separated in the physical address range. The intermediary layer that does the mapping described above may for example be implemented in part or in whole by a software driver running on the same CPU on which the applications run. Alternatively or additionally the intermediary layer may be in part or in whole embedded within a controller that controls the flash device and serves as the interface for the main CPU of the host computer when the host computer accesses the memory device also called storage device . This is for example the situation in removable memory cards such as SecureDigital SD cards or MultimediaMemoryCards MMCs where the card has an on board controller running a firmware program that among other functions implements the type of mapping described above.

Software or firmware implementations that perform such address mappings are usually called flash management systems or flash file systems . The term flash file system actually is a misnomer as the implementations do not necessarily support files in the sense that files are used in operating systems or personal computers but rather support block device interfaces similar to those exported by hard disk software drivers. Still the term is commonly used and flash file system and flash management system are used herein interchangeably.

Other systems that implement virtual to physical address mapping are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 937 425 to Ban and U.S. Pat. No. 6 591 330 to Lasser. Both of these patents are incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

For the present disclosure a flash management layer is a computer element i.e. implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof residing on any number of devices that i receives requests to write data to flash or to read data from flash for example at a specified block ii handles the requests by programming the flash or reading data from flash and iii effects one or more auxiliary flash management operations for example housekeeping operations address mapping bad block management wear leveling management of storage of mapping tables or other flash management tables and error correction . Flash management layers are useful for hiding from a client at least some of the complexity of using flash memory for example the need to carry out housekeeping operations when writing to flash the need to effect bad block management the fact that data read from flash cells is sometimes unreliable and there is a need to effect some sort of error correction the need to extend the life of the flash memory cells by wear leveling and for the case of NAND the need to operate under the constraint that NAND is not random access but serial access .

Examples of policies for storage of flash management tables are discussed in US 20060253645 incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

Examples of wear leveling techniques for flash EEPROM systems are discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 850 443 incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

Examples of techniques of managing programming voltage parameters for writing to flash memory or programming flash memory cells is provided by U.S. Pat. No. 6 903 972 and US 2005 0024978 incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

Upon receiving each aforementioned data storage request or data retrieval request via file system interface file system invokes data storage or data retrieval services provided by flash management layer which hides the complexity of flash storage by presenting to the file system a block oriented or page oriented interface for example a Logical Block Addressing LBA interface or other high level interface such as interface . Thus in the exemplary configuration shown in there is no need for file system or for client application A to be aware of the specifics of flash management.

In recent years so called object oriented storage systems have become more popular. are block diagrams of exemplary object oriented systems shown at B and C respectively in which data is stored to and or retrieved from flash. In the example of the client application B issues a request to store a data object or retrieve a data object using an object oriented protocol such as Media Transfer Protocol MTP or Object based Storage Device OSD protocol command via object oriented storage interface . Object mode logical sector mode translation layer i.e. part of an object oriented storage system receives the request and sends to flash management layer corresponding read or write requests via the block oriented interface for example an LBA interface via flash management layer interface .

The example of relates to a storage system that supports more modern object oriented storage protocols together with legacy file system architecture. Thus in the example of the client application B issues a request to store a data object or retrieve a data object using an object oriented protocol such as MTP or OSD via object oriented storage interface . Object mode file mode translation layer receives the request and sends via file system interface corresponding file system read or write requests to the legacy file system .

Methods apparatus and computer code for effecting flash policy configuration operations in accordance with an end user identifier and or a host instance identifier are disclosed herein. Exemplary flash policy configuration operations include i configuring a flash error correction policy ii configuring a flash management table storage policy iii configuring a wear leveling policy iv configuring a bad block management policy and v configuring a flash programming voltage parameter. Exemplary end user identifiers include but are not limited to email account identifiers logon user names and International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . Exemplary host instance identifiers include but are not limited to International Mobile Equipment Identifiers IMEI . Optionally the flash policy configuration is contingent on authentication context data for example for example strength of the authentication e.g. login password vs smartcard authentication or biometric authentication date of the authentication and identity provider information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a system for configuring flash memory access behavior comprises a an interface for receiving at least one identifier selected from the group consisting of a host instance identifier and an end user identifier and b a flash policy enforcer operative to effect in accordance with at least one received identifier selected from the aforementioned group at least one flash configuration operation selected from the group consisting of i a configuration of a flash error correction policy ii a configuration of a flash management table storage policy iii a configuration of a wear leveling policy iv a configuration of a bad block management policy and v a configuration of at least one flash programming voltage parameter.

According to some embodiments the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the configuration of the flash error correction policy.

According to some embodiments the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the configuration of the flash management layer table storage policy.

According to some embodiments the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the configuration of the wear leveling policy.

According to some embodiments the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the configuration of the bad block management policy.

According to some embodiments the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the configuration of at least one flash programming parameter.

According to some embodiments i the interface is a multi function interface that is further operative to receive at least one data handling request selected from the group consisting of a data read request and a data write request and ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation for servicing the data handling request.

According to some embodiments i the interface is a file system interface and ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation by issuing a fle system flash management layer directive. According to some embodiments i the interface is a flash management layer interface ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation by issuing an intra flash management layer directive.

According to some embodiments the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation by issuing an object translation layer file system layer directive.

According to some embodiments i the interface is operative to receive the end user identifier and ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation in accordance with the received end user identifier.

According to some embodiments i the interface is operative to receive the host instance identifier and ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation in accordance with the received host instance identifier.

According to some embodiments i the received end user identifier is an email address and ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation in accordance with the received email address.

According to some embodiments i the end user identifier is a phone service subscriber identifier for example an International Mobile Subscriber Identity and ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation in accordance with the received phone service subscriber identifier.

According to some embodiments i the host instance identifier is a telephone handset unique identifier and ii the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation in accordance with the received telephone handset unique identifier.

According to some embodiments the system further comprises c an identifier mapping database configured to store a plurality of the identifiers such that each identifier of the plurality is associated with a respective flash management parameter set including a respective at least one flash operation parameter selected from the group consisting of i an error correction level for the flash error correction policy ii a frequency parameter for saving at least flash management table from volatile memory to flash memory for the flash management table storage policy iii a wear leveling parameter for determining at least one of A whether or not wear leveling should be carried out and B how frequently to effect wear leveling operations iv a bad block threshold parameter and v a flash programming parameter wherein the flash policy enforcer is operative to i obtain from the identifier mapping database a respective the matching flash management parameter set corresponding to the interface received identifier ii effect the flash configuration operation in accordance with at least one obtained flash parameter of the matching flash parameter management set.

According to some embodiments the flash policy enforcer is operative to effect the at least one flash configuration operation in a manner that is contingent on authentication context data of the at least one identifier.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method for configuring flash memory access behavior comprises a receiving at least one identifier selected from the group consisting of a host instance identifier and an end user identifier and b effecting in accordance with at least one received identifier selected from the group at least one flash configuration operation selected from the group consisting of i configuring a flash error correction policy ii configuring a flash management table storage policy iii configuring a wear leveling policy iv configuring a bad block management policy and v configuring at least one flash programming parameter.

According to some embodiments the at least one flash configuration operation includes effecting the configuring of the flash error correction policy in accordance with the received identifier.

According to some embodiments the at least one flash configuration operation includes effecting the configuring of the flash management table storage policy in accordance with the received identifier.

According to some embodiments the at least one flash configuration operation includes effecting the configuring of the wear leveling policy in accordance with the received identifier.

According to some embodiments the at least one flash configuration operation includes effecting the configuration of the bad block management policy in accordance with the received identifier.

According to some embodiments the at least one flash configuration operation includes effecting the configuration the at least one flash programming parameter in accordance with the received identifier.

According to some embodiments i the identifier is received via a multi function interface that is further operative to receive at least one data handling request selected from the group consisting of a data read request and a data write request and ii the at least one flash configuration operation includes is operative to configure a servicing of the data handling request.

According to some embodiments i the identifier is received via a file system interface ii the at least one flash configuration operation includes issuing a file system flash management layer directive.

According to some embodiments i the identifier is received via a flash management layer interface and ii the at least one flash configuration operation includes issuing an intra flash management layer directive in accordance with the flash management layer interface received identifier.

According to some embodiments the at least one flash configuration operation includes issuing an object translation layer file system layer directive.

According to some embodiments i the received identifier includes the end user identifier and ii the at least one flash configuration operation is carried out in accordance with the received end user identifier.

According to some embodiments i the received identifier includes the host instance identifier and ii the at least one flash configuration operation is carried out in accordance with the received host instance identifier.

According to some embodiments i the received end user identifier is a phone service subscriber identifier for example an International Mobile Subscriber Identity and ii the at least one flash configuration operation is carried out in accordance with the received phone service subscriber identifier.

According to some embodiments i the host instance identifier is a telephone handset unique identifier and ii the at least one flash configuration operation is carried out in accordance with the received telephone handset unique identifier.

According to some embodiments the method further comprises the step of c obtaining a respective matching flash management parameter set corresponding to the interface received identifier from an identifier mapping database that stores a plurality of the identifiers such that each identifier of the plurality is associated with a respective flash management parameter set including a respective at least one flash operation parameter selected from the group consisting of i an error correction level for the flash error correction policy ii a frequency parameter for saving at least flash management table from volatile memory to flash memory for the flash management table storage policy iii a wear leveling parameter for determining at least one of A whether or not wear leveling should be carried out B how frequently to effect wear leveling operations iv a bad block threshold parameter and v a flash programming voltage parameter wherein the flash configuration operation is effected in accordance with at least one obtained flash parameter of the matching flash parameter management set.

According to some embodiments the at least one flash configuration operation is effected in a manner that is contingent on authentication context data of the at least one identifier.

According to some embodiments a computer readable medium comprises program instructions wherein when executed the program instructions are operable to a receive at least one identifier selected from the group consisting of a host instance identifier and an end user identifier and b effect in accordance with at least one received identifier selected from the aforementioned group at least one flash configuration operation selected from the group consisting of i configuring a flash error correction policy ii configuring a flash management layer storage policy iii configuring a wear leveling policy iv configuring a bad block management policy and v configuring at least one flash programming parameter.

These and further embodiments will be apparent from the detailed description and examples that follow.

The present invention will now be described in terms of specific example embodiments. It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the example embodiments disclosed. It should also be understood that not every feature of the apparatus methods and computer code for providing identity based flash management services described is necessary to implement the invention as claimed in any particular one of the appended claims. Various elements and features of devices are described to fully enable the invention. It should also be understood that throughout this disclosure where a process or method is shown or described the steps of the method may be performed in any order or simultaneously unless it is clear from the context that one step depends on another being performed first.

The inventor of the present invention has found that it is possible to provide ID aware flash management services i.e. it is feasible and useful to enforce a flash management policy selected in accordance with an end user identifier and or host instance identifier.

In a first non limiting example a vendor or service provider may prefer to enable a certain end user i.e. a first end user to read or write data quickly while sacrificing a certain amount of reliability or flash endurance while providing to a different end user i.e. a second end user a higher level of reliability even at the cost of read or write speed or flash endurance .

Thus when it is determined that the first end user or an application associated with the first end user is invoking flash services i.e. writing data to flash or retrieving data from flash a first set of flash management parameters may be used. For example when handling requests associated with the first user less wear leveling may be used i.e. since including wear leveling operations may reduce the speed at which flash services are provided or a lower level of error correction may be provided. In another example when handling write requests associated with the first user certain flash voltage programming parameters associated with greater speed may be selected see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 903 972 for example using larger pulse increments of the programming pulses using a lower target threshold voltage using wider programming voltage pulses using higher starting programming voltages using fewer programming voltage pulses and or using lower maximum programming voltages.

On the other hand when handling requests from the second end user a different policy may be enforced. For example when handling requests associated with the second end user more wear leveling may be used i.e. to provide a greater flash endurance or a higher level or error correction may be used i.e. to provide a greater reliability or accuracy in flash read data . In another example when handling write requests associated with the second user smaller programming pulse increments may be used i.e. which allows the data to be written more reliably at the cost of a slower write operation .

In a second non limiting example a vendor or service provider may decide to provide a third user with improved robustness against power failures i.e. even at the expense of speed while providing a fourth user with increased read and or write speed i.e. with possibly a reduced level of robustness against power failures . According to this example when handling read or write requests the third user the flash management system will save flash management tables for example address translation tables from RAM to flash very often in the event of a power failure it will be possible to recover from the power failure quicker and or with greater data integrity than the case where flash management tables are saved from RAM to flash less often. On the other hand when handling read or write request from the fourth user the frequency at which flash management tables are saved from RAM to flash would be reduced in order not to slow the system with performance slowing housekeeping operations. For the present disclosure the frequency for example in time and or in number of operations or any other frequency parameters at which flash management tables are saved from RAM to flash is one example of a flash management table storage policy .

In a third non limiting example a vendor or service provider may decide to provide a fifth end user with higher level of data storage reliability even if the total storage space of a given device is reduced while for a sixth end user it may be decided by the vendor or service provider to sacrifice a certain amount of data storage reliability in order to be afforded a larger flash storage space. Thus according to this third example a bad block management policy may be selected and enforced in accordance with an end user identifier and or a host instance identifier i.e. as discussed below .

According to the third non limiting example each block is associated with a respective probability of being a bad block and a bad block management policy is enforced where if the probability that a given block is a bad block exceeds a certain probability threshold the block is designated as a bad block and not used.

Thus according to this third example when handling read or write request from the fifth user a relatively high value for this bad block probability threshold is enforced a smaller total number of blocks are considered good blocks or reliable blocks . This higher standard increases device reliability while sacrificing storage size. Conversely when handling read or write request from the sixth user a relatively low value for this bad block probability threshold is enforced a larger total number of blocks are considered good blocks or reliable blocks . This higher standard increases available storage size while potentially reducing device reliability.

The present inventor is now disclosing an apparatus and technique for providing identify based flash management services in accordance with one or more of i an end user identifier and ii a host instance identifier.

For the present disclosure the term end user identifier refers to an identifier of a human user or to an end user subscription or subscriber identifier or to a user account identifier. It is recognized that there are many situations where multiple human beings for example within a family or within an enterprise share a single user identifier for example the same email account the same account on a single machine or local area network or multiple users of the same cell phone account.

According to a first non limiting example a user logs into his MS Windows account with a log on name and password . In this example the operating system or a portion thereof passes the log on name to the computing element i.e. implemented in software and or hardware and or firmware responsible for enforcing the identity based flash management or flash storage policy. In this example the log on name is the end user identifier and this refers to the user account within MS Windows .

In another a second non limiting example an MS Word application includes User Information e.g. accessible by Tools Options User Information . According to this example MS Word passes this end user identifier data on to the operating system which passes the user information data to the computing element i.e. implemented in software and or hardware and or firmware responsible for enforcing the identity based flash management or flash storage policy.

Another example of an end user identifier is a phone service subscriber identifier such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

With reference to it is noted that in some embodiments the flash device and the host device are physically separate devices i.e. each associated with a different respective housing operatively coupled together via some sort of wired or wireless physical interface for example a Universal Serial Bus USB interface an MMC interface an SD interface etc. According to this example the host device and the flash device effect inter device communications using some asymmetric protocol with a host side and a device side for example a USB protocol .

Thus in one non limiting example host device is a personal computer and flash device is a USB flash drive or UFD . In another non limiting example host device is a mobile phone and flash device is a SIM card.

It is noted that typically manufacturers will associate each host device such as host device with a unique identifier that is independent of the computing capability of the host hardware. For example a mobile phone manufacturer can manufacture a large number of identical phones where each phone is associated with a different hardware identifier or host instance identifier .

One non limiting example of a host instance identifier is a telephone handset unique identifier such as the International Mobile Equipment Identifiers IMEI unique to every GSM and UMTS phone.

The present inventor is now disclosing that it is possible for flash device to provide flash storage or management services in accordance with the host instance identifier of host .

Thus all of the use cases which are discussed in the earlier section in terms of a first end user and a second end user etc. are also relevant in cases where it is desired to provide a first type of flash management services to a first host device having a first host instance identifier and a second type of flash management services to a second host device having a second host instance identifier .

In one non limiting example the flash device is pre configured for example in the factory or by a distributor or in any other manner with an on board database of host instance identifiers identifiers. At some point in time for example when a data read or write operation is requested the flash device needs to determine the identity of the host device to which flash device is coupled and to provide flash management or storage services accordingly. According to this non limiting example a look up of this on board database may be effected i.e. using the host instance identifier in order to retrieve i.e. based upon the host instance identifier a description or identifier of the appropriate flash management or flash storage policy which is then enforced.

An Exemplary Technique for Configuring Flash Memory Access Behavior In Accordance With a Received End User and or Host Instance Identifier

In step the end user and or host instance identifier is received. In step one or more flash management parameters are determined in accordance with the identifier received at step . In one non limiting example the determining at step includes looking up in a mapping database that can be for example a two column mapping database where the searched data column includes a list of various end user and or host instance identifiers and the retrieved data column includes one or more flash parameters or one or more descriptions of flash policies to be implemented. Each identifier is thus associated with a respective one or more parameters policy descriptions .

Non limiting examples of flash parameters include i an error correction level for flash read data ii a frequency parameter for flash system tables e.g. a parameter describing how frequently flash system tables are to be saved from RAM to flash memory this relates to the tradeoff between robustness against power failure and speed and or a wear leveling parameters for example a boolean parameter describing whether or not to carry out wear leveling operations which may provide slower service but increase the endurance of the flash memory and or a bad block parameter for example a threshold parameter describing how reliable a block must be to be considered usable and not a bad block and or a flash programming parameter for example the size of a programming pulse or the frequency at which programming pulses are applied when programming flash .

The mapping database may be implemented in any combination of volatile and or non volatile memory and may reside on a single device or on multiple devices.

In step a flash policy e.g. flash error correction policy wear leveling policy or flash table housekeeping policy for storing flash system tables from RAM to flash or bad block policy or flash programming parameter policy i.e. selecting a flash programming parameter such as a programming step voltage which is configured according to flash management parameter s that are determined at step is enforced for example by modifying a data structure or by issuing a directive or a command which causes the data structure to be modified which stores a relevant flash parameter .

As noted above in step an identifier is received and later a flash policy is determined and enforced in accordance with the received identifier. Optionally an ID manager for delivering trusted identity tokens end user ID host instance ID is provided. This may be necessary for example in cases where IDs need to be ascertained for example where a business agreement is signed between a flash vendor and an Identity Provider e.g. for example a software vendor or operating system vendor to provide specific flash tradeoffs.

In one example end users identities are managed by an Identity Provider IdP a server residing in the network . In this case the ID manager may be responsible for obtaining and storing ID tokens signed by the IdP and corresponding to a user s ID or device host instance ID . In addition to the end user for example an email address or a user login ID or any other end user identifier or host device instance identifier for example an IMEI a security token may also include authentication context data e.g. strength of the authentication e.g. login password vs. smartcard or biometric authentication etc. . . . date of the authentication identity provider information etc.

In different examples an ID token i.e. for an end user identifier or host instance identifier may be acquired on the fly for example in a response to an authentication request or cached locally.

In some embodiments the ID token is encoded according to the end user identifier and or authentication context data for example strength of the authentication e.g. login password vs. smartcard authentication etc. date of the authentication and identity provider information. In one or more of these embodiments the determination and or enforcement of the given flash policy i.e. error correction policy and or wear leveling policy and or bad block policy and or flash programming parameter policy is contingent on the authentication context data i.e. the authentication context data must be satisfactory for example having a minimum authentication strength a relatively recent authentication data or an identity provider matching a pre determined acceptable list of identity providers .

In one non limiting example the identifier dependent or identifier based flash policy is only enforced for a given identifier if the security token i.e. indicating end user and or host instance identifier received in step has a date of authentication that is more recent than a certain date for example within the last 7 days .

In another non limiting example the identifier dependent flash policy is only enforced for a given identifier if the security token i.e. indicating end user and or host instance identifier received in step indicates verification by a given identity provider i.e. vendor or server .

In yet another non limiting example the identifier dependent flash policy is only enforced for a given identifier if the strength of authentication for the received security token is of a minimum level for example at least smart card level .

In different embodiments the enforcement of identity based flash policies may be carried out at one or more locations within a flash storage system. Some non limiting examples are described in A B and A C.

With reference to the identifier i.e. end user identifier and or host instance identifier is received by file system for example from client application A or in any other manner and the flash policy enforcer for enforcing the identity dependent flash policy resides in file system . In the non limiting examples of the interface by which flash policy enforcer receives the identifier at step i.e. end user identifier and or host instance identifier is file system interface which is configured as a multi purpose interface. In these example the multi purpose file system interface receives both i data handling requests for writing and or writing data in this example file handling requests as well as ii identifier data as in step .

For the present disclosure the term interface for receiving an identifier for example file system interface or object storage interface or flash management layer interface refers to a logical interface and is not required to be a physical interface for example between two separate devices .

In the examples of upon receiving the identifier flash policy enforcer effects a query of a mapping database not shown to obtain a description of or any relevant data or information relating to or associated with the flash policy to be enforced. In the examples of the flash management layer is ignorant of the identify based flash policy enforcement. Nevertheless the flash management layer provides an API Application Programming Interface for the policy description for example for receiving one or more flash policy parameters . For example the flash management layer may be configured to receive a parameter describing a level of error correction and or a frequency at which flash system tables should be saved from RAM to flash and or a wear leveling policy and or a bad block management policy and or a flash programming parameter for example a programming pulse size or programming voltage frequency i.e. frequency at which the various pulses are to be applied .

In the example of flash policy enforcer thus i receives at step the client identifier for example via the file system interface ii determines at step one or more flash management parameters for example by effecting a look up of a mapping database not shown and iii configures at step the flash policy for example by sending a flash policy parameter from the file system to flash management layer for example via a flash management layer API of the flash management layer interface thereby issuing a file system flash management layer directive .

For the present disclosure a file system flash management directive is a request sent from file system to the flash management layer to carry one or more operations i.e. in this case to configure a flash policy according to one or more parameters sent from the file system to the flash management later.

In the non limiting example of there is no need for the flash management layer to be aware of identity dependent flash policies or to receive any identifier i.e. end user identifier or host instance identifier . In this example enforcement is carried out in the file system and file system residing flash policy enforcer may configure flash management layer by sending a generic directive i.e. without mention of the identifier via flash management layer interface .

A word on notation In file system interface is asterisked because the end user and or host instance identifier is passed via file system interface . On the other hand flash management layer interface is not asterisked because in the non limiting example of the identifier is not passed via flash management layer interface . This asterisk convention is also followed in other figures.

Similarly in the non limiting example of flash policy enforcer resides in the file system and policy enforcement i.e. obtaining a description of the flash policy to be enforced and generating a directive to enforce the described flash policy is carried out in file system .

In the non limiting examples of B and C flash policy enforcer resides in the flash management layer and policy enforcement i.e. obtaining a description of the flash policy to be enforced and generating a directive to enforce the described flash policy is carried out in flash management layer . In examples where the policy enforcement is carried out exclusively within flash management layer without invoking services from higher levels it may be said that an intra flash management layer directive is generated by policy enforcer i.e. without any need for an explicit flash policy configuration directive i.e. a request to configure flash policy to be sent to flash management layer from a higher layer for example file system or translation layers or .

In contrast with the examples of in the non limiting examples of B and C the end user and or host instance identifier is received into flash management layer .

In the non limiting example of flash policy enforcer resides in object mode logical sector mode translation layer and policy enforcement i.e. obtaining a description of the flash policy to be enforced and generating a directive to enforce the described flash policy is carried out in object mode logical sector mode translation layer . In the non limiting example of the end user and or host instance identifier is thus received into object mode logical sector mode translation layer via object oriented storage interface . Similar to the example of and in contrast with the examples B B and C there is no need to provide the identifier i.e. end user and or host instance identifier to flash management layer .

In the non limiting example of flash policy enforcer resides in object mode file mode translation layer and policy enforcement i.e. obtaining a description of the flash policy to be enforced and generating a directive to enforce the described flash policy is carried out in object mode file mode translation layer . In the non limiting example of the end user and or host instance identifier is thus received into object mode file mode translation layer via object oriented storage interface . Similar to the example of A and B and in contrast with the examples B B and C there is no need to provide the identifier i.e. end user and or host instance identifier to flash management layer . Furthermore there is no need to provide the identifier i.e. end user and or host instance identifier to file system .

In the non limiting example of file system interface is a multi purpose or multi function interface serving at least two fanctions receiving of ordinary file system commands to read and or write files and receiving of the end user and or host instance identifier. It is noted that the commands to read and or write files are examples of data handling requests to read and or write data ultimately from flash memory though this is not required to appear explicitly in the request. Nevertheless there is no explicit requirement that the identifier be received via such a multi purpose interface .

Similarly in the non limiting example of B and C flash management layer interface is a multi purpose interface serving at least two functions receiving ordinary flash manager layer commands for example to read or write data to a given block or page and receiving the end user and or host instance identifier. It is noted that the commands to read and or write blocks or pages are examples of data handling requests to read and or write data ultimately from flash memory though this is not required to appear explicitly in the request. Nevertheless there is no explicit requirement that the identifier be received via such multi purpose interface .

Similarly in the non limiting example of A and A object oriented storage interface is a multi purpose interface serving at least two functions receiving ordinary object storage commands for example to read or write data to a given object for example encoded according to an object storage protocol such as MTP or OSD and receiving the end user and or host instance identifier. It is noted that the commands to read and or write objects are examples of data handling requests to read and or write data ultimately from flash memory though this is not required to appear explicitly in the request. Nevertheless there is no explicit requirement that the identifier be received via such a multi purpose interface .

In some implementations every component in the aforementioned storage systems of A C and A C resides on a single device. In some implementations the architecture depicted in is adopted where flash device i.e. including flash memory i is coupled to host device via a physical inter device interface ii effect inter device communications via physical inter device interface using some asymmetric protocol with a host side and a device side for example a USB protocol or MC protocol . In addition flash device iii receives data from the host device via physical interface and stores the received to the flash memory within the flash device iv retrieves data from flash memory within the flash device and sends the retrieved data to the host device via physical interface.

With reference to the figures it is noted that any component i.e. for example a data handling component for example in any layer between the client application and flash of any storage system A G for example components may reside in part or wholly or in part on either or host device and flash device . Furthermore in some embodiments any one of the aforementioned components may be implemented in any combination of software hardware and firmware.

In one non limiting example flash policy enforcer is implemented partly or entirely by a controller of flash device . Alternatively or additionally in another non limiting example flash policy enforcer is implemented partly or entirely by executing driver code for example using a CPU of host device .

In the description and claims of the present application each of the verbs comprise include and have and conjugates thereof are used to indicate that the object or objects of the verb are not necessarily a complete listing of members components elements or parts of the subject or subjects of the verb.

All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Citation of a reference does not constitute an admission that the reference is prior art. The articles a and an are used herein to refer to one or to more than one i.e. to at least one of the gramnmatical object of the article. By way of example an element means one element or more than one element.

The term including is used herein to mean and is used interchangeably with the phrase including but not limited to.

The term or is used herein to mean and is used interchangeably with the term and or unless context clearly indicates otherwise.

The term such as is used herein to mean and is used interchangeably with the phrase such as but not limited to .

The present invention has been described using detailed descriptions of embodiments thereof that are provided by way of example and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. The described embodiments comprise different features not all of which are required in all embodiments of the invention. Some embodiments of the present invention utilize only some of the features or possible combinations of the features. Variations of embodiments of the present invention that are described and embodiments of the present invention comprising different combinations of features noted in the described embodiments will occur to persons of the art.

