---

title: Memory device performing a partial refresh operation based on accessed and/or refreshed memory blocks and method thereof
abstract: The present invention provides a memory device which comprises a memory cell array having a plurality of memory blocks; a memory controller for controlling a refresh operation with respect to the memory blocks; a refresh check bit circuit for storing refresh check bits corresponding to the memory blocks, respectively; a block select control circuit for setting refresh check bits of memory blocks to be refreshed to a checked state according to a first control of the memory controller; a using check bit circuit for storing using check bits corresponding to the memory blocks, respectively; a using check control circuit for setting refresh check bits of memory blocks to which access is requested to a checked state according to a second control of the memory controller; and a partial refresh control circuit for controlling the refresh operation such that memory blocks corresponding to checked using check bits or checked refresh check bits are refreshed according to a third control of the memory controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07755966&OS=07755966&RS=07755966
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 07755966
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20071017
---
This U.S non provisional patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C 119 of Korean Patent Application 10 2006 0101454 filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Oct. 18 2006 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a dynamic random access memory DRAM device and more particularly to a DRAM device capable of performing a partial refresh operation and a method thereof.

In general a DRAM device consists of memory cells each of which consists of a capacitor and a transistor. Data is stored in a capacitor of each memory cell. Data stored in a capacitor is lost due to a decrease in charges in the capacitor according to leakage over time. Accordingly the DRAM device has a disadvantage that data stored in the capacitor can be lost as time elapses. In order to solve such a problem the DRAM device necessitates a refresh operation in which data in memory cells is retained through periodic amplification.

In the event that a system operates in a normal mode a DRAM device may store or read data in or from memory cells in response to a read write access command. After such accesses a DRAM device may perform a refresh operation. In general a refresh operation may be carried out with respect to all memory cells regardless of whether data is stored or not. Since a refresh operation is carried out with respect to memory cells that do not store data to be retained unnecessary power may be consumed.

According to a first aspect the present invention is directed to a memory device comprising a memory cell array having a plurality of memory blocks. A memory controller controls a refresh operation with respect to the memory blocks. A refresh check bit circuit stores refresh check bits corresponding to the memory blocks respectively. A block select control circuit sets refresh check bits of memory blocks to be refreshed to a checked state according to a first control signal of the memory controller. A using check bit circuit stores using check bits corresponding to the memory blocks respectively. The using check bits indicate blocks to which access is requested. A using check control circuit sets refresh check bits of memory blocks to which access is requested to a checked state according to a second control signal of the memory controller. A partial refresh controller controls the refresh operation such that memory blocks corresponding to checked using check bits or checked refresh check bits are refreshed according to a third control signal of the memory controller. In one embodiment the memory device may be used as an internal memory of a system on chip.

In one embodiment the using check control circuit comprises using check circuits corresponding to the using check bits respectively. The using check circuits can be configured to reset corresponding using check bits according to the second control signal of the memory controller. Each of the using check circuits can comprise a first check signal generator for generating a first check signal in response to an access signal a block address and a checking start signal as the second control signal from the memory controller a second check signal generator for generating a second check signal in response to the block address the checking start signal and a checking reset signal from the memory controller and a third check signal generator for setting a corresponding using check bit to a checked state in response to the first and second check signals. The access signal is activated when a selected memory block is access requested. The first check signal generator can activate the first check signal when the block address is an address of a selected memory block and the access and check start signals are activated. The second check signal generator can inactivate the second check signal when the checking start signal is activated. The third check signal generator can be configured to set a corresponding using check bit to a checked state in response to the activated first check signal and the inactivated second check signal.

In one embodiment the checking reset signal is selectively activated after the checking start signal is inactivated. The second check signal generator can activate the second check signal in response to the inactivated checking reset signal. The third check signal generator can reset a using check signal corresponding to a selected memory block in response to the activated second check signal.

In one embodiment the third check signal generator is configured to reset a corresponding using check bit in response to a reset signal as a fourth control signal from the memory controller.

In one embodiment the partial refresh control circuit comprises a plurality of block address comparators each comparing a corresponding block address a corresponding using check bit and a corresponding refresh check bit and a refresh command signal transferor for selectively outputting a refresh command signal from the memory controller in response to comparison results and a partial refresh start signal from the memory controller. Each of the block address comparators can output an activated comparison output signal when the corresponding block address is an address of a selected memory block and the corresponding using check bit or refresh check bit is set to a checked state. The refresh command signal transferor can send the refresh command signal to the selected memory block in response to the activated partial refresh start signal and at least one activated comparison output signal of the comparison output signals.

In one embodiment each of the block address comparators outputs an inactivated comparison output signal when the corresponding block address is an address of a selected memory block and corresponding using check bit and refresh check bit are set to a checked state. The refresh command signal transferor can prevent the refresh command signal from being transferred to the selected memory block in response to the activated partial refresh start signal and the inactivated comparison output signal.

According to another aspect the present invention is directed to a refresh method of a memory device comprising setting refresh check bits corresponding to memory blocks to be refreshed to a checked state in response to a first control signal of a memory controller setting using check bits corresponding to memory blocks to be accessed to a checked state in response to a second control signal of the memory controller and controlling a refresh operation such that memory blocks to checked using check bits or checked refresh check bits are refreshed in response to a third control signal of the memory controller.

In one embodiment setting using checks bits comprises generating a first check signal in response to an access signal a block address and a checking start signal as the second control signal from the memory controller generating a second check signal in response to the block address the checking start signal and a checking reset signal from the memory controller and setting a corresponding using check bit to a checked state in response to the first and second check signals. The access signal is activated when a selected memory block is access requested. The first check signal can be activated when the block address is an address of a selected memory block and the access and check start signals are activated. The second check signal can be inactivated when the checking start signal is activated. A using check bit can be set to a checked state according to the activated first check signal and the inactivated second check signal.

In one embodiment the checking reset signal is selectively activated after the checking start signal is inactivated. The method may further include activating the second check signal in response to the inactivated checking reset signal. The method may further include resetting a using check signal corresponding to a selected memory block in response to the activated second check signal.

In one embodiment the method further includes resetting a using check bit in response to a reset signal as a fourth control signal from the memory controller.

In one embodiment controlling corresponding memory blocks comprises comparing a block address a using check bit and a refresh check bit and selectively outputting a refresh command signal from the memory controller in response to a comparison result and a partial refresh start signal from the memory controller. An activated comparison output signal can be output when the block address is an address of a selected memory block and the using check bit or refresh check bit is set to a checked state. The refresh command signal can be sent to the selected memory block in response to the activated partial refresh start signal and the activated comparison output signal. An inactivated comparison output signal can be output when the block address is an address of a selected memory block and the using check bit and refresh check bit are set to a checked state. The refresh command signal can be prevented from being transferred to the selected memory block in response to the activated partial refresh start signal and the inactivated comparison output signal.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

A memory device according to the present invention is configured to selectively perform a refresh operation with respect to only memory blocks to be refreshed. Accordingly it is possible to reduce power consumption in a refresh operation of a memory device according to the present invention.

Referring to the dynamic random access memory is controlled by a memory controller . The dynamic random access memory may include a command decoder a refresh request counter a row pre decoder a row decoder a memory cell array a sense amplifier a column decoder and a partial refresh controller .

The memory cell array may consist of banks each of which having one or more blocks. One bank having plural memory blocks e.g. N Memory Blocks is illustrated in but it is obvious to those skilled in the art that the memory cell array is composed of plural banks. The command decoder generates commands in response to control signals from the memory controller . The dynamic random access memory is operated in response to the generated command.

In a normal operation an external address EXT ADDR is decoded by the row pre decoder and the row decoder . A word line corresponding to the decoded external address EXT ADDR is activated. A column address COL ADDR is decoded by the column decoder . The sense amplifier connected to the memory cell array senses and amplifies data from a selected cell in response to a decoded column address COL ADDR.

In a read operation data read from the memory cell array may be provided from the sense amplifier to the memory controller .

In a write operation the sense amplifier is provided data from the memory controller . The provided data is stored to a selected cell by the sense amplifier .

In a refresh operation the partial refresh controller performs a refresh operation only with respect to blocks requiring a refresh operation in response to the command. This is referred to as a partial refresh operation. According to the partial refresh operation the dynamic random access memory can perform a partial refresh operation. Thus it is possible to reduce power consumption. Hereinafter the partial refresh operation will be described in detail.

The dynamic random access memory may be used as an internal memory. For example the dynamic random access memory can be constructed as an internal memory of a system on chip SOC .

Referring to the partial refresh controller according to the present invention includes a partial refresh control circuit a using check control circuit a using check bit circuit a refresh check bit circuit and a block select control circuit .

The memory cell array may consist of banks each of which having one or more blocks. A memory controller may generate control signals for controlling a refresh operation with respect to the blocks of the memory cell array .

The partial refresh control circuit may control whether a refresh operation is performed with respect to a selected block of the memory cell array . The using check control circuit may control checking of bits of the using check bit circuit based on whether the memory device is accessed externally. The using check bit circuit may include storages corresponding to blocks in the memory cell array . The respective storages store bits corresponding to the blocks hereinafter referred to as using check bits which indicate for which access is requested in the memory cell array respectively.

The refresh check bit circuit may include storages corresponding to blocks in the memory cell array . The respective storages store bits corresponding to the blocks hereinafter referred to as refresh check bits . The refresh check bit circuit may check blocks in the memory cell array to be used by the block select control circuit before the memory device is accessed. Blocks of the memory cell array corresponding to checked refresh check bits are blocks to which refresh is requested at a refresh operation of the dynamic random access memory . The block select control circuit may control checking of refresh check bits in the refresh check bit according to the control of a mode register set MRS not shown or the memory controller .

The command decoder may generate a command in response to control signals RAS CAS WE and CS from the memory controller . The control signal CS is a chip select signal the RAS is a row address strobe signal the CAS is a column address strobe signal and the WE is a write enable signal. The dynamic random access memory may perform a refresh operation when the control signals RAS CAS and WE have a low level a low level and a high level respectively. Accordingly the command decoder may generate a refresh command REF CMD the control signal RAS of a low level the control signal CAS of a low level and the control signal WE of a high level. That is it is considered that the refresh command may be generated from the memory controller because it is made by combination of the control signals RAS CAS and WE from the memory controller .

The refresh counter may generate an internal address INT ADDR in response to the refresh command REF CMD from the command decoder and provide it to the row pre decoder .

The row pre decoder may operate responsive to the refresh command REF CMD and receive an external address EXT ADDR from the exterior at a normal operation or the internal address INT ADDR from the refresh counter at a refresh operation. The row pre decoder may decode the received external or internal address EXT ADDR or INT ADDR to generate a row address RADDR which is provided to the row decoder .

The row decoder may receive the row address RADDR from the row pre decoder and decode the received row address RADDR so as to select blocks in respective banks of the memory cell array . That is the row pre decoder decodes an address in bank unit e.g. a bank address and the row decoder decodes the decoded address in block unit e.g. a block address .

The block select control circuit may control checking of refresh check bits in the refresh check bit circuit according to the control of MRS not shown or the memory controller before using the memory. For example the block select control circuit may check refresh check bits corresponding to address information BA of a memory block from the memory controller or MRS. The checked refresh check bits become a high level respectively.

The refresh check bits checked by the block select control circuit may indicate blocks in the memory cell array that are to be refreshed at a refresh operation of the dynamic random access memory . Accordingly at a refresh operation blocks in the memory cell array are refreshed which correspond to the checked refresh check bits. The refresh check bits in the refresh check bit circuit may be checked in a bank unit. For example in the event that the memory cell array may include four banks each of which has four memory blocks if a first bank is selected by the block select control circuit there are checked refresh check bits in the refresh check bit circuit that correspond to memory blocks in the first bank.

The using check control circuit receives a checking start signal CHS a reset signal RST and a check reset signal CHK RST. Further the using check control circuit receives an access signal ACCESS which is activated when the memory cell array is accessed from the exterior and a decoded block address BLK ADDR from the row decoder . The using check control circuit may control checking of each using check bit of the using check bit .

At a normal operation the access signal ACCESS is activated when a block in the memory cell array corresponding to the decoded block address BLK ADDR is activated high.

At a normal operation when the signals RST and CHK RST are inactivated low and the checking start signal CHS is activated high if the access signal ACCESS is activated the using check control circuit checks a using check bit of the using check circuit corresponding to the received block address BLK ADDR. A block corresponding to the checked using check bit may be a block that necessitates retaining of data to a region to which access is requested. Accordingly a block corresponding to a checked using check bit is requested to be refreshed.

In the event that a received checking start signal CHS is inactivated low the using check control circuit does not check using check bits in the using check bit circuit regardless of whether the memory cell array is requested to be accessed from the exterior. In the event that the dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation an access from the exterior may be ignored. Accordingly the using check control circuit does not check using check bits unless a received checking start signal CHS is activated high.

The reset signal RST is used to reset all using check bits in the using check bit circuit . The using check control circuit may reset all using check bits in the using check bit circuit when the reset signal RST is activated high. The reset using check bits may become a low level respectively.

The checking reset signal CHK RST is a signal for resetting a using check bit in the using check bit circuit corresponding to a selected block. That is a using check bit in the using check bit circuit is reset which corresponds to a block selected by the checking reset signal CHK RST. When the checking reset signal CHK RST is activated high the using check control circuit resets a using check bit in the using check bit circuit corresponding to a block selected by the row decoder . In the event that the using check control circuit receives a checking start signal CHS of a high level the checking reset signal CHK RST is not activated. In the event that the using check control circuit receives the checking start signal CHS of a low level that is in the event that the using check control circuit does not check using check bits the checking reset signal CHK RST may be activated.

The using check control circuit may control whether using check bits in the using check bit circuit are checked. Using check bits checked by the using check control circuit indicate blocks to be refreshed at a refresh operation respectively.

The partial refresh control circuit may receive a partial refresh start signal PRS as a control signal generated by the memory controller . The partial refresh control circuit may receive the refresh command REF CMD a block address BLK ADDR decoded by the row decoder a bit in the using check bit circuit corresponding to the decoded block address BLK ADDR and bit information of the refresh check bit circuit corresponding to the decoded block address BLK ADDR. The partial refresh control circuit may transfer the refresh command REF CMD to the memory cell array when the partial fresh start signal PRS is activated high and a using check bit or a refresh check bit is checked. A block selected by the row decoder is refreshed according to the refresh command REF CMD.

In the event that the dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation the command decoder may generate the refresh command REF CMD in response to control signals RAS CAS WE and CS from the memory controller . The refresh command REF CMD is transferred to the refresh counter the partial refresh control circuit and the row pre decoder .

In a case where the dynamic random access memory carries out a refresh operation the refresh counter generates an internal address INT ADDR in response to the refresh command REF CMD from the command decoder . The internal address INT ADDR is supplied to the row pre decoder .

When the dynamic random access memory makes a refresh operation the row pre decoder receives the internal address INT ADDR from the refresh counter in response to the refresh command REF CMD. The row pre decoder generates a row address RADDR in response to the internal address INT ADDR. The row address RADDR is supplied to the row decoder . The row decoder decodes the row address RADDR so as to select blocks in respective banks of the memory cell array . One block in the memory cell array is selected by the decoded block address BLK ADDR which is transferred to the using check control circuit and the partial refresh control circuit .

At a normal operation of the dynamic random access memory the row pre decoder is controlled by the refresh command REF CMD and decodes an external address EXT ADDR to generate a row address RADDR. The row address RADDR is sent to the row decoder .

At a normal operation of the dynamic random access memory the using check control circuit receives the decoded block address BLK ADDR from the row decoder . when the checking start signal CHS has a high level the using check control circuit checks whether a block selected by the decoded block address BLK ADDR is accessed by the external. If so a using check bit in the using check bit storing part corresponding to the block address BLK ADDR is checked. A block corresponding to the checked using check bit is a region accessed by the external and necessitating retaining of data. Accordingly a block corresponding to the checked using check bit is a block to which a refresh operation is required.

In the event that a received checking start signal CHS is inactivated low the using check control circuit does not check using check bits in the using check bit circuit regardless of whether the memory cell array is requested to be accessed from the exterior. In the event that the dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation an access from the external may be ignored. Accordingly the using check control circuit does not check using check bits although a received checking start signal CHS is activated high.

During a refresh operation the row pre decoder receives an internal address INT ADDR from the refresh counter in response to the refresh command REF CMD and decodes the received internal address INT ADDR to generate a row address RADDR. The row decoder may receive the row address RADDR from the row pre decoder and decode the received row address RADDR so as to select blocks in respective banks of the memory cell array .

In the event that the dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation the partial refresh control circuit receives a partial refresh start signal PRS of a high level. The partial refresh control circuit receives the refresh command REF CMD a block address BLK ADDR decoded by the row decoder a using check bit in the using check bit circuit corresponding to the decoded block address BLK ADDR and refresh check bit information of the refresh check bit circuit .

In the event that the dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation if a received using check bit or refresh check bit is checked the partial refresh control circuit sends the refresh command REF CMD to the memory cell array in response to the partial refresh start signal PRS of a high level. Accordingly if at least one of a using check bit and a refresh check bit corresponding to a block address BLK ADDR is checked a block selected by the row decoder is refreshed according to the refresh command REF CMD. Thus the partial refresh control circuit may control a refresh operation of respective blocks of the memory cell array .

When the checking start signal CHS of a low level is received the using check control circuit does not check using check bits in the using check bit circuit . In a case where using check bits are not checked the partial refresh control circuit performs a refresh operation with respect to blocks corresponding to previously checked refresh check bits in the refresh check bit circuit .

As a result the dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation only with respect to blocks necessitating a refresh operation at a refresh operation.

Referring to a using check control circuit of the present invention operates responsive to a checking start signal CHS of a high level an on state and checks respective using check bits in a using check bit circuit according to whether or not respective blocks in a memory cell array are being accessed.

During a refresh operation the partial refresh control circuit receives a partial refresh start signal of a high level an on state . If a using check bit in the using check bit storing circuit or a refresh check bit in the refresh check bit circuit is checked the partial refresh control circuit controls a refresh operation with respect to a block corresponding to the checked bit.

In the event that the dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation it performs a refresh operation without access request from the exterior. Thus the using check control circuit does not check a using check bit in the using check bit circuit although a checking start signal CHS of a high level is input.

When a refresh operation is ended the partial refresh control circuit receives the partial refresh start signal PRS of a low level an off state and does not perform a partial refresh operation. At this time the using check control circuit does not check using check bits in the using check bit circuit in response to a checking start signal CHS of a low level an off state . Afterward at a normal operation the checking reset signal CHK RST may be activated. That is the checking reset signal CHK RST may be activated after the using check control circuit receives the checking start signal CHS of a low level. In a case where the checking reset signal CHK RST is activated high the using check control circuit resets a using check bit in the using check bit storing circuit corresponding to a block selected by a block address BLK ADDR. The using check bit is reset to a low level.

In only one circuit hereinafter referred to as a using check circuit is illustrated but a using check control circuit may be configured to include the using check circuit so as to correspond to using check bits in a using check bit circuit respectively. For example in a case where a memory cell array includes 16 blocks the using check bit circuit may include 16 storages not shown which store using check bits respectively. Accordingly the using check control circuit may include 16 using check circuits illustrated in . The using check control circuit receives block address BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY and checking reset signals CHK RST to CHK RSTXY that correspond to using check circuits respectively. A block address BLK ADDR decoded by a row decoder may consist of block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY. The using check circuits are commonly supplied with a reset signal RST.

The using check circuits are configured and operate identically to each other. For ease of description an operation of a using check circuit will be described under the assumption that a first block in the memory cell array is selected according to block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY decoded by the row decoder .

Referring to the using check circuit according to the present invention includes an inverter INV a NAND gate NAND operating as a first check signal generator an AND gate AND operating as a second check signal generator and a check signal generating part . The check signal generating part includes inverters INV INV and INV a PMOS transistor MP and an NMOS transistor MN and MN.

A first input terminal of the NAND gate NAND receives an access signal ACCESS a second input terminal thereof receives a checking start signal CHS and a third input terminal thereof receives a block address BLK ADDR. The AND gate AND has a first input terminal receiving an inverted checking start signal CHS via the inverter INV a second input terminal receiving the block address BLK ADDR and a third input terminal receiving the checking reset signal CHK RST.

The NAND gate NAND combines the received signals ACCESS CHS and BLK ADDR to output a first check signal PRE CHECK to the check signal generating part as a combination result. The first check signal PRE CHECK is applied to a gate of the PMOS transistor MP in the check signal generating part . The AND gate AND combines the received signals CHS BLK ADDR and CHK REST to output a second check signal PRE CHECK RESET to the check signal generating part as a combination result. The second check signal PRE CHECK RESET is applied to a gate of the NMOS transistor MN in the check signal generating part .

A source of the PMOS transistor MP in the check signal generating part is connected to an operation voltage Vdd and its gate is connected to receive the first check signal PRE CHECK and its drain is connected to a node N. A gate of the NMOS transistor MN is connected to receive the second check signal PRE CHECK RESET its source is connected to a ground voltage GND and its drain is connected to the node N. A gate of the NMOS transistor MN is connected to receive a reset signal RST its drain is connected to the node N and its source is connected to a ground voltage GND.

A voltage of the node N may be determined through the PMOS and NMOS transistors MP and MN. The voltage of the node N thus determined is latched by the inverters INV and INV and is transferred as a using check bit UCB of the using check bit circuit corresponding to the block address BLK ADDR via the inverters INV and INV. The using check bit UCB indicates an on state or a checked state when a voltage of the node N has a high level and an off state when a voltage of the node N has a low level. This means that a checked using check bit has a high level.

At a normal operation a row pre decoder receives an external address EXT ADDR according to the control of a refresh command REF CMD and decodes the received external address EXT ADDR to generate a row address RADDR.

A row decoder receives the row address RADDR from the row pre decoder and decodes the received row address RADDR so as to select blocks in respective banks of a memory cell array . Decoded block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY from the row decoder are sent to corresponding using check circuits in a using check control circuit respectively.

In a case where a first block is selected according to the decoded block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY a block address BLK ADDR has a high level and remaining block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY have a low level respectively. The block address BLK ADDR of a high level is supplied to a third input terminal of a NAND gate NAND in the using check circuit and a second input terminal of an AND gate AND. Each of the block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY may be sent to a corresponding using check circuit in the using check control circuit .

At a normal operation if the using check control circuit receives a checking start signal CHS of a high level in order to check using check bits of a using check bit circuit the checking start signal CHS of a high level is applied to a second input terminal of the NAND gate NAND in the using check circuit . The checking start signal CHS of a high level is inverted via an inverter INV and the inverted checking start signal CHS is applied to a first input terminal of the AND gate AND. At this time the using check control circuit receives the checking start signal CHS which is applied to a third input terminal of the AND gate AND in the using check circuit . Since the checking start signal CHS has a high level the checking reset signal CHK RST goes to a low level.

When a first block in a memory cell array is accessed by the external an access signal ACCESS becomes a high level. The access signal ACCESS is sent to a first input terminal of the NAND gate NAND in the using check circuit .

The NAND gate NAND combines received signals ACCESS CHS and BLK ADDR and outputs a first check signal PRE CHECK to a check signal generating part as a combination result. Since the received signals ACCESS CHS and BLK ADDR have a high level respectively the first check signal PRE CHECK goes to a low level. The first check signal PRE CHECK is supplied to a gate of a PMOS transistor MP in the check signal generating part .

The AND gate AND combines the received signal CHS BLK ADDR CHK RST and outputs a second check signal PRE CHECK RESET to the check signal generating part as a combination result. Since the received check reset signal CHK RST has a low level the second check signal PRE CHECK RESET becomes a low level regardless of the remaining signals CHS and BLK ADDR. The second check signal PRE CHECK RESET is applied to a gate of an NMOS transistor MN in the check signal generating part .

The PMOS transistor MP is turned on by the first check signal PRE CHECK of a low level and the NMOS transistor MN is turned off by the second check signal PRE CHECK RESET of a low level. Accordingly a node N becomes a high level of an operation voltage Vdd.

In a case where a reset signal RST is at a low level an NMOS transistor MN is turned off. This means that a high level signal of the node N is held by inverters INV and INV and that a high level signal of the node N is output as a first using check bit of the using check bit circuit corresponding to the using check circuit via inverters INV and INV.

The first using check bit of the using check bit circuit is checked according to a check signal UCB of a high level output from the using check circuit . That is a first using check bit of the using check bit circuit becomes a high level.

At a normal operation in the event that the check start signal CHS is at a high level the block address BLK ADDR is at a high level the checking reset signal CHK RST is at a low level and a first block in the memory cell array is accessed externally the access signal ACCESS becomes a low level.

The access signal ACCESS of a low level is applied to a first input terminal of the NAND gate NAND in the using check circuit and the checking start signal CHS of a high level is applied to a second input terminal of the NAND gate NAND. Further the checking start signal CHS of a high level is inverted via the inverter INV and the inverted checking start signal CHS of a low level is applied to a first input terminal of the AND gate AND. The block address BLK ADDR of a high level is supplied to a third input terminal of the NAND gate NAND and a second input terminal of the AND gate AND. The checking reset signal CHK RST of a low level is sent to a third input terminal of the AND gate AND in the using check circuit .

Since one ACCESS of the received signals ACCESS CHS and BLK ADDR is at a low level the NAND gate NAND generates the first check signal PRE CHECK of a high level. The first check signal PRE CHECK of a high level is applied to a gate of the PMOS transistor MP in the check signal generating part .

Since one CHK RST of the received signals CHS CHK RST and BLK ADDR is at a low level the AND gate AND generates the second check signal PRE CHECK RESET of a low level. The second check signal PRE CHECK RESET of a low level is applied to a gate of the NMOS transistor MN in the check signal generating part .

The PMOS transistor MP of the check signal generating part is turned off by the first check signal PRE CHECK of a high level and the NMOS transistor MN is turned off by the second check signal PRE CHECK RESET of a low level. Accordingly the node N has a low level signal. The low level signal of the node N is held by the inverters INV and INV and is output as a first using check bit of a using check bit circuit corresponding to the using check circuit via the inverters INV and INV. The first using check bit in the using check bit circuit is not checked according to a using check signal UCB of a low level. That is the first using check bit of the using check bit circuit becomes a low level.

As a result in a case where a selected block in the memory cell array is accessed from the external a using check bit of the using check bit circuit corresponding to the accessed block is checked by the using check circuit of the using check control circuit . A table illustrated in indicates check states of respective using check bits of the using heck bit circuit and blocks in the memory cell array . Using check bits of the using check bit circuit may be checked by corresponding using check circuits respectively. The table in shows that and blocks are accessed and that using check bits corresponding to the accessed blocks are checked at a high state. Remaining blocks are not accessed and using check bits of the remaining blocks are not checked or maintained at a low level.

After checking using check bits of using check circuits according to whether respective blocks of the memory cell array are accessed if the checking start signal CHS goes to a low level the checking reset signal CHK RST may be activated high. If a first block of the memory cell array is selected and the checking reset signal CHK RST is activated high a first input terminal of the AND gate AND is supplied with a checking start signal CHS of a high level via the inverter INV and a second input terminal thereof is supplied with a block address BLK ADDR of a high level and a third input terminal thereof is supplied with the checking reset signal CHK RST of a high level.

The AND gate AND generates a second check signal PRE CHECK RESET of a high level in response to the received signal CHS BLK ADDR and CHK RST that have a high level respectively. The second check signal PRE CHECK RESET of a high level is applied to a gate of the NMOS transistor MN in the checking signal generating part .

The NMOS transistor MN of the check signal generating part is turned on the second check signal PRE CHECK RESET of a high level. Accordingly current of the node N flows to a ground voltage GND via the turned on NMOS transistor MN. That is the node N is set to a low level. In a case where a first using check bit UCB of the using check bit circuit is checked since a voltage of the node N is set to a low level the first using check bit UCB of the using check bit circuit corresponding to the using check circuit is changed from a high level to a low level. That is the first using check bit of the using check bit circuit is reset. Accordingly after the checking start signal CHS is set to a low level checked using check bits may be reset selectively by a corresponding checking reset signal CHK RST.

In the event that bits of the using check bit circuit are all reset the using check circuit is supplied with a reset signal RST of a high level which is applied to a gate of the NMOS transistor MN of the check signal generating part in the using check circuit .

The NMOS transistor MN of the check signal generating part is turned on by the reset signal RST of a high level. Accordingly current of the node N flows to a ground voltage GND via the turned on NMOS transistor MN so that a voltage of the node N is set to a low level. This forces a first using check bit of the using check bit circuit corresponding to the using check circuit to become a low level. That is the first check bit of the using check bit circuit is reset. Using check circuits of the using check control circuit are supplied with the reset signal RST in common. Accordingly when the reset signal RST of a high level is received the using check circuits reset corresponding using check bits. As a result when the reset signal RST of a high level is applied to the using check circuits all using check bits in the using check bit circuit is set to a low level.

Referring to in a case where a memory cell array includes four banks and each bank includes four memory blocks the memory cell array may include 16 memory blocks. There are checked refresh check bits of a refresh check bit circuit corresponding to blocks and in the memory cell array . Checked refresh check bits are bits that are previously checked to determine blocks in the memory cell array to be refreshed.

Blocks and in the memory cell array are accessed externally and using check bits of a using check bit circuit corresponding to accessed blocks are checked. Checked refresh check bits and using check bits indicate blocks to be refreshed at a refresh operation.

Referring to a partial refresh control circuit may include a block address comparator and a refresh command signal transfer part . The refresh command signal transfer part has an OR gate OR an AND gate AND and a buffer BUF.

In the event that a dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation the partial refresh control circuit receives using check bits UCB to UCBXY of a using check bit circuit refresh check bits RCB to RCBXY of a refresh check bit circuit and decoded block addresses BLK ADDR to BLKK ADDRXY of a row decoder . Further the partial refresh control circuit receives an activated partial refresh start signal PRS and a refresh command REF CMD.

During a refresh operation the received using check bits UCB to UCBXY refresh check bits RCB to RCBXY and decoded block addresses BLK ADDR are applied to corresponding block address comparators respectively. Further the activated refresh start signal PRS is applied to a second input terminal of the AND gate AND and the refresh command REF CMD is transferred to the buffer BUF that is controlled by a refresh transfer control signal E.

At a refresh operation a row pre decoder generates a row address RADDR in response to an internal address INT ADDR from a refresh counter according to a refresh command signal REF CMD. The row address RADDR is transferred to a row decoder which decodes the row address RADDR so as to select blocks in respective banks of a memory cell array .

The block address comparators may compare the block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY the using check bits UCB to UCBXY and the refresh check bits RCB to RCBXY. The block address comparators may be configured to operate the same. Accordingly a block address comparator will be described under the assumption that a first block of a memory cell array is selected according to decoded block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY.

If the first block is selected a block address BLK ADDR is set to a high level and remaining block addresses are set to a low level. Accordingly the block address comparator is supplied with the block address BLK ADDR of a high level and the remaining block address comparators are supplied with corresponding block addresses each having a low level.

In a case where the received block address BLK ADDR is at a high level the block address comparator may output a comparison signal OUT of a high level when a first using check bit UCB of a using check bit circuit or a first refresh check bit RCB of a refresh check bit circuit is at a high level. But the block address comparator may output a comparison signal OUT of a low level when the first using check bit UCB and the first refresh check bit RCB are all at a low level.

In a case where the received block address BLK ADDR is at a low level the block address comparator may output a comparison signal OUT of a low level regardless of a first using check bit UCB and a first refresh check bit RCB. If a first block is selected block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY of unselected blocks are set to a low level. Accordingly block address comparators corresponding to the block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY output comparison output signals OUT to OUTXY each having a low level. The comparison output signal OUT of a high level is supplied to an OR gate OR of the refresh command signal transfer part .

The OR gate OR receives the comparison output signals OUT to OUTXY. Since the comparison output signal OUT is at a high level the OR gate OR outputs a signal Pre E of a high level. The signal Pre E of a high level is supplied to a first input terminal of an AND gate AND. During a refresh operation the partial refresh start signal PRS is activated high. Accordingly the AND gate AND outputs a refresh transfer control signal E of a high level in response to a high level signal Pre E and the partial refresh start signal PRS of a high level. The buffer BUF is turned on in response to the refresh transfer control signal E of a high level. This means that the refresh command REF CMD is transferred to a memory cell array via the buffer BUF. Accordingly a first block of the memory cell array may perform a refresh operation in response to the refresh command REF CMD.

On the other hand the block address comparator outputs a comparison output signal OUT of a low level if both the first using check bit UCB and the first refresh check bit RCB are not checked. This means that the OR gate OR is supplied with signals OUT to OUTXY each having a low level. Accordingly a signal Pre E of a low level is output from the OR gate OR. Although the partial refresh start signal PRS is activated high during a refresh operation the AND gate AND outputs the refresh transfer control signal E of a low level. As a result since the buffer BUF is turned off by the refresh transfer control signal E the refresh command REF CMD is not transferred to the memory cell array . That is a refresh operation is not performed with respect to a first block.

In a case where different blocks from the first block are selected the block address comparators operate the same as described above. Accordingly when any block is selected according to decoded block addresses BLK ADDR to BLK ADDRXY the partial refresh control circuit makes the selected block be refreshed when a using check bit of a using check bit circuit or a refresh check bit of a refresh check bit circuit corresponding to the selected block is checked.

At a refresh operation each block of a memory cell array may be selected sequentially and a refresh operation to a selected block may be determined according to whether a corresponding using check bit of a using check bit circuit or a corresponding refresh check bit circuit is checked. Assuming that using check bits in the using check bit circuit or refresh check bits in the refresh check bit circuit are checked as shown in a refresh operation is performed with respect to blocks and are refreshed while it is not performed with respect to remaining blocks.

As a result the partial refresh control circuit may control a refresh operation with respect to a block corresponding to a checked refresh or using check bit. Accordingly since a dynamic random access memory performs a refresh operation only with respect to blocks necessitating a refresh operation it is possible to reduce power consumption.

As other embodiments a memory according to the present invention may be configured such that the signals PRS CHS CHK RST and RST are generated within the memory based on commands from the memory controller .

Although the present invention has been described in connection with the embodiment of the present invention illustrated in the accompanying drawings it is not limited thereto. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various substitution modifications and changes may be thereto without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

