---

title: Method to enhance micro-C4 reliability by reducing the impact of hot spot pulsing
abstract: A system for reducing an impact of hot spot pulsing of a semiconductor device including: first generating means for generating a plurality of local op-codes; a sequencer for augmenting customer op-codes with the plurality of local op-codes; selecting means for selecting one or more of the randomly arriving customer op-codes awaiting execution; monitoring means for tracking which of the one or more randomly arriving customer op-codes have been selected; separating means for separating the plurality of local op-codes from the one or more customer op-codes; storing means for storing one or more data related to the processing of the plurality of local op-codes and the customer op-codes; and second generating means for generating an output for a customer corresponding to that customer op-code while gainfully employing an output generated by local op-codes for system health monitoring purpose.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07836353&OS=07836353&RS=07836353
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07836353
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070507
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract No. H98230 04 C 920 awarded by The National Security Agency. The government has certain rights in this invention.

IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. U.S.A. Other names used herein may be registered trademarks trademarks or product names of International Business Machines Corporation or other companies.

This invention relates to electronic packaging and particularly to a method for providing micro C4 reliability by reducing the impact of hot spot pulsing.

An electronic package typically consists of a silicon chip e.g. 15 15 mm and a substrate e.g. 40 40 mm joined by an array of solder bumps called C4 or controlled collapsed chip connection e.g. 100 m diameter 100 m height 200 m pitch . An advanced electronic package may consist of multiple silicon chips assembled over a single planar silicon substrate e.g. 40 40 mm called a silicon carrier which is attached to a substrate using C4s. In an advanced package the silicon chips are attached to the silicon carrier using C4s e.g. 25 m diameter 10 m height 50 m pitch .

The reliability of an electronic package is affected by the fatigue life of its solder joints. Industry testing on conventional wear out mechanisms in an electronic packaging generally focuses on low cycle fatigue in which an assembly is subjected to deep thermal cycles DTC e.g. 55 C. to 125 C. . Solder joints are subjected to significant plastic strain under DTC. A certain amount of vibration testing is also performed in which high cycle fatigue life is evaluated. Under high cycle fatigue the strain levels are weak and the solder can be considered more elastic than plastic.

Power dissipated in a microprocessor is non uniformity distributed among its logical units it is expected for example that a floating point unit may dissipate power at a much higher density e.g. 5 to 7 than the rest of a microprocessor in a numerically intensive computing environment. The localized dissipation of heat at higher power densities can result in zones with substantially higher temperatures. These zones are referred to as hot spots. On a high performance processor e.g. 8 12 mm several hot spots may exist in this description two hot spots each e.g. 2 2 mm in size is considered. These hot spots may release 20 W of thermal power each while the remaining chip is dissipating 60 W. Cooling solutions can contain peak temperatures below a pre selected level. Since the hot spots are utilized according to customer workload the power dissipated in a chip is not only non uniformity but also varies by time. The customer workload therefore arrives for processing at random time intervals. Thus the temperature near a hot spot is likely to fluctuate accordingly.

Steady power dissipation often results in steady temperature gradients within an electronic package. Therefore the strain level due to coefficient of thermal expansion CTE mismatch and temperature gradient is also steady. Since the solder has creep properties initial strain following a power ON event is known to relax to a steady value after a delay in time typically in minutes or some fraction of an hour depending on the temperature and composition of the solder. New generation of lead free solder tends to have low creep rate. The repetition rate of this strain cycle which would amount to a few power On Off cycles per day contributes to relatively lower strains and thus takes many cycles to induce fatigue failure. DTC testing essentially evaluates the power On Off life under accelerated conditions. However when hot spots are randomly activated due to customer workload power dissipation fluctuates.

This fluctuation referred to as hot spot pulsing in turn results in transient strain cycles. Hot spot pulsing conditions have likely always been in existence in electronic systems but they have not been significant enough to trigger a new failure mode. Detailed analysis of an advanced package system reveals that when hot spot power density is pushed more than 5 that of the average power density of a chip substantial strain levels can occur due to temperature gradient. Furthermore if the effect of the CTE differential for example of an organic substrate is included in the strain analysis the solder strain levels caused by hot spot pulsing are likely to increase further. Since the time scale of hot spot pulsing is of the order of milliseconds time interval needed for solder relaxation is insufficient and solder creep may not play a significant role in determining the solder fatigue failure.

Considering the above limitations it is desired to improve the reliability of C4s and C4s against hot spot driven high cycle fatigue failure.

The shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through the provision of a system comprising first generating means for generating a plurality of local op codes a sequencer for augmenting customer op codes with the plurality of local op codes selecting means for selecting one or snore of the randomly arriving customer op codes awaiting execution monitoring means for tracking which of the one or more randomly arriving customer op codes have been selected separating means for separating the plurality of local op codes horn the one or more customer op codes storing means for storing one or more data related to the processing of the plurality of local op codes and the customer op codes and second generating means for generating an output for a customer corresponding to that customer op code while gainfully employing an output generated by local op codes her system health monitoring purposes.

The shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through the provision of a method comprising generating a plurality of local op codes augmenting customer op codes with the plurality of local op codes via a sequencer selecting one or more of the customer op codes awaiting execution tracking which of the one or more customer op codes have been selected for execution separating the plurality of local op codes horn the one or more customer op codes storing one or more data resulting from the processing of the plurality of local op codes and generating an output for a customer corresponding to that customer op code while gainfully employing an output generated by local op codes for system health monitoring purposes.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail heroin and are considered a pan of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with advantages and features refer to the description and the drawings.

As a result of the summarized invention technically we have achieved a solution for an improved method concerning the reliability of C4s and C4s against hot spot driven high cycle fatigue failure.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments is a method concerning the reliability of C4s and C4s against hot spot driven high cycle fatigue failure. Another aspect of the exemplary embodiments is a method for minimizing temperature fluctuation either as an open loop system or as a feedback system by leveraging the onboard temperature sensors of a chip. The ultimate goal of minimizing the strain fluctuation can be enhanced by means of measuring strain itself using embedded strain sensors augmented by temperature sensors.

In electronic packages hot spot pulsing could cause substantial cyclic strain in C4 thus contributing to high cycle fatigue. The random arrival pattern of customer workload is therefore augmented by internally generated work useful or artificial so that hot spot temperature fluctuation is minimized according to cost benefit criteria. Tire internal workload is generated by streaming a power generating operating code referred to as op code sequence so that the power pulse amplitude and pulse widths are chosen to minimise the strain in C4. This may be achieved via the exemplary embodiments described below in accordance with .

The self generated workload could include gainful housekeeping activity of a computer system such as reliability monitoring functions or it could be simply an artificial workload of no explicit computational value. One function of a self generated workload is to smooth out the temperature fluctuation through additional operations for the purpose of reducing the C4 strain. Even though the average power dissipated in the processor is expected to increase and the corresponding temperature of the hot spot region is likely to be higher hie C4 reliability is enhanced by this solution.

The exemplary embodiments of the present invention illustrated an open loop and a feedback loop form of implementation at a given processor level. However in a complex system with multiple processors whose workload is scheduled by a supervisory controller the customer workload can be sequenced to reduce the C4 strain cycles without having to augment the sequence with artificial workloads. The primary solution as illustrated in the exemplary embodiments to smooth the temperature fluctuation by augmenting the customer workload with power generating pulses impacts total power dissipated in a package assembly. The silicon carrier thickness has been demonstrated to improve heat spreading near hot spots. By increasing the SiC silicon carbide thickness substrate thickness the temperature that drives the C4 fatigue can be reduced.

In additions the copper lines that feed power and signals to a hot spot region in a Back End Of The Line BEOL can be intentionally increased in volumes thereby increasing the local heat capacity through thermal inertia. The BEOL is that portion of an integrated circuit fabrication where the active components e.g. transistors resistors etc. am interconnected with wiring on the wafer. BEOL generally begins when the first layer of metal is deposited on the wafer. It includes contacts insulator metal levels and bonding sites for chip to package connections. Dicing the wafer into individual integrated circuit chips is also a BEOL process. Increased thermal inertia reduces the temperature fluctuation in a material the same manner as a low pass filter in an electrical circuit that reduces signal fluctuation.

The capabilities of the present invention can be implemented in software firmware hardware or some combination thereof.

As one example one or more aspects of the present invention can be included in an article of manufacture e.g. one or more computer program products having for instance computer usable media. The media has embodied therein for instances computer readable program code means for providing and facilitating the capabilities of the present invention. The article of manufacture can be included as a part of a computer system or sold separately.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention has been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall with the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

