---

title: System and method for selectively enabling or disabling an optical device using optical blocking material on an energy masked area of the optical device
abstract: A system for selectively enabling or disabling an optical device, such as an optical disc, includes an optical blocking material bonded or otherwise integrated into the optical device. In a specific embodiment, the optical blocking material includes a dye, such as an energy-sensitive dye. The optical blocking material is initially applied to the optical device during production using a spin coating or other suitable technique. An area of the optical device that will prevent a function of the device is then masked, and sufficient energy is applied to the unmasked area to activate the optical blocking material of the unmasked area while leaving the masked area unactivated. In a specific embodiment, the masked area corresponds with a lead-in area of an optical disc. The optical blocking material of the masked area remains non-transparent to disable the optical device until a second application of energy at a retail location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07830777&OS=07830777&RS=07830777
owner: Sony DADC US Inc.
number: 07830777
owner_city: Terre Haute
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070124
---
This invention claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 762 093 entitled ENERGY MASKING FOR PRODUCTION OF ANTI SHRINK PRODUCTS filed on Jan. 25 2006. This application also relates to the U.S. application Ser. No. 11 410 478 filed on Apr. 24 2006. These applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to product activation systems and methods and in particular to systems and methods for selectively activating optical devices.

For the purposes of the present discussion an optical device may be any device or medium that relies on optics to function properly. Examples of optical devices include but are not limited to Compact Discs CDs Digital Video Discs DVDs High Density DVDs HD DVDs Blu ray discs and so on.

Systems and methods for selectively activating products are employed in various demanding applications including product theft prevention rental return enforcement and copyright infringement. Such applications often demand cost effective systems that are difficult to circumvent yet convenient to control with the appropriate equipment.

Systems for selectively activating products are particularly important in theft prevention applications involving readily shoplifted optical devices such as CDs and DVDs. Conventionally such optical devices are often tagged with a theft prevention device such as a sticker or a Radio Frequency Identification Tag RFID that is deactivated upon purchase. When deactivated the devices prevent alarm triggering tag functions from triggering alarms when a customer exits a merchandise outlet such as a store.

Unfortunately thieves may often readily notice and remove such tags. Furthermore RFID tags may undesirably increase product costs and may further emit undesirable radio frequencies even after deactivation. For example such frequencies may not be approved by the Federal Aviation Administration FAA for in flight use.

Related application Ser. No. 11 410 478 describes a system for selectively enabling and disabling optical devices. It uses an optical blocking material covering an entire readable surface of the optical device. However the energy required to activate such optical devices within a desired activation time e.g. 1 to 3 seconds is believed to be too large to be used safely in a retail setting. At acceptable energy levels the activation process is considered too slow.

The present invention accommodates selectively enabling or disabling an optical device such as an optical disc.

In one embodiment the system includes an optical blocking material integrated e.g. bonded or otherwise integrated into the optical device during production. For example the optical blocking material can be applied to the optical device using a spin coating technique. An area of the optical device that will prevent functional play or other desired function of the device is then masked and a sufficient energy is applied to the unmasked area during the production process to activate the optical blocking material of the unmasked area. Activation of the optical blocking material causes the material to change from a non transparent condition into a transparent condition. The optical blocking material of the masked area remains unactivated. For example the masked area corresponds with a lead in area or file system boot area of an optical disc. By keeping the optical blocking material over the lead in area or file system boot area unactivated i.e. non transparent the optical device will remain disabled. A second application of energy can be applied at retail or other supply chain locations to activate the remaining optical blocking material to enable the optical device.

In one embodiment the optical blocking material includes a dye such as an energy sensitive dye. The optical device includes an optical disc such as CD or DVD. The energy source for activating the optical blocking material will be selected to match the properties of the optical blocking material. For example certain materials can be activated to change from a non transparent condition into a transparent condition upon application of ultraviolet light or other suitable energy from a laser system ultrasound system or infrared transmitter.

According to one aspect the present invention provides a method of manufacturing an optical device comprising applying an optical blocking material to at least a portion of the optical device masking an area of the optical blocking material that will prevent a function of the optical device while leaving a remaining area unmasked and applying sufficient energy to the unmasked area of the optical device to activate the optical blocking material while leaving the masked area unactivated.

According to another aspect the present invention provides a system for inhibiting theft of an optical device is provided the system comprising an optical blocking material bonded or otherwise integrated into the optical device the material having an initially non transparent state and a first portion of the optical blocking material being activated into a transparent state while a second portion of the optical blocking material remaining in a non transparent state the second portion being sufficient to stop a function of the optical device. The first portion of the optical blocking material is activated into a transparent state by a first energy source during manufacture of the optical device and the second portion of the optical blocking material is activated into a transparent state by a second energy source associated with a retail location.

According to another aspect an optical disc is provided comprising an optical blocking material bonded or otherwise integrated into the disc the material having an initially non transparent state and a first portion of the optical blocking material being activated into a transparent state while a second portion of the optical blocking material remains in a non transparent state the second portion covering a sufficient area of the optical disc to prevent a function of the optical disc.

The specific embodiments described herein may be employed to enable optical devices at the time of purchase using time and energy levels that are acceptable in a retail setting. The present invention provides a cost effective solution to inhibiting theft of optical devices that meets customer requirements for speed and effectiveness.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

An optical device may be any device or medium that employs optical energy to function as desired. An optical device may include any optical disc employed to store provide and or manipulate data using selective application of optical energy. An optical disc may employ a beam of optical energy for reading and or writing data to from the optical disc. Examples of optical discs include but are not limited to Digital Video Discs DVDs Compact Discs CDs CD Recordable CDR media CD Read Write CDRW media Blu Ray discs High Density HD discs optical memory cards credit cards Subscriber Identity Module SIM cards and so on.

The read laser system produces a laser beam which reflects off of patterned pits included in the spiral track on the optical device . The pattern of reflected light may be employed by the optical read system or an accompanying computer to decode information encoded on the optical device via the pits.

The conventional optical device shown in has a lead in area containing the table of contents for the device a program area containing individual tracks with blocks of data and a lead out area . The lead in area must be accessible on the device to enable functional play. If the lead in area is not visible or is corrupted the device becomes unplayable. Unplayability can also be accomplished by blocking access to a particular file system boot area on the optical device such as any of the file system s volume descriptors. These volume descriptors typically reside near the beginning of the volume space. As an example in the case of DVD discs the descriptors may be located from sector numbers 0 through 256. Also path tables directory records and file descriptors that are located after or near this same area and are blocked can cause discs to not play.

The present invention uses an optical blocking material to selectively enable and disable the optical device . As shown in the optical blocking material is initially applied to an entire surface of the optical device using a spin coating process or other suitable technique. As described in related application Ser. No. 11 410 478 the optical blocking material can be applied over the polycarbonate outer layer of an optical disc under the polycarbonate layer or beneath the polycarbonate layer. The optical blocking material can also be incorporated into the polycarbonate layer. The optical blocking material can thus be integrated into the optical device in a variety of ways.

In the spin coating process the optical blocking material is combined with a solvent and sprayed or poured onto the surface of the disc substrate. The disc is then rotated at a high speed to spread the material by centrifugal force. Rotation is continued while the excess material and fluid spins off the edges of the substrate until the desired thickness of the optical blocking material is achieved on the surface of the disc . The thickness of the optical blocking material can be controlled by changing the rotation speed rotation duration and or concentration of the solution and solvent. Current spin coating equipment used in the manufacture of optical discs can be used to apply the optical blocking material.

The optical blocking material can be a photosensitive ink or dye and may be any ink or dye or other material that changes color or transparency in response to specific energy. The optical blocking material is preferably a material that can be applied in a thin layer which changes nature such as color or transparency in response to application of energy such as optical energy vibrational energy or acoustic energy. Optical energy may be any energy within a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum between and including ultraviolet and radio frequencies. In other embodiments energy other than optical energy may be employed to selectively change the transmissive properties of the optical blocking material .

The optical blocking material can comprise various types of ink azo ink or ink made by Veriloc Inc. without departing from the scope of the present invention. Other suitable inks include readily available CD R and DVD R recording dyes including cyanine and phthalocyanine azo dyes which are reactive to ultrasonic degradation in addition to optical degradation at specific wavelengths and intensities. Exemplary dies also include various types of recording dyes used for Write Once Read Many WORM discs and so on. Such dyes are relatively inexpensive and have characteristics that are suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention.

As used in the present application the terms transparent and non transparent are used to describe the relative transmissive properties of the optical blocking material in its activated and unactivated conditions. The term non transparent refers to any condition of the optical blocking material that prevents the optical device from being read or written to by an optical read system even if such condition has some limited transparency i.e. less transparency than the activated condition of the optical blocking material but not completely opaque . The term non transparent also includes a condition of the optical blocking material being partially reflective or exhibiting a specific color that prevents the optical read system from reading the optical device . The term transparent refers to the optical blocking material being sufficiently transparent or non reflective to enable the read system to read the optical device .

Once the optical blocking material is applied to the optical device by spin coating or the like an area of the optical blocking material that will prevent a function of the optical device is covered by a mask . The masked area is selected as an area of the disc that is necessary to enable functional play or a particular function of the disc . For example the lead in area the file system s volume descriptor data path tables directory records or file descriptors on the optical device can be masked while leaving the remaining area of the optical device unmasked.

A sufficient energy is then applied to the unmasked area of the optical device to activate that portion of the optical blocking material while leaving the area under the mask unactivated. In the specific embodiment described herein the optical blocking material is a photosensitive dye that has a non transparent condition until the material is activated by light energy from an energy source at which time the material becomes transparent. The specific energy used to activate the optical blocking material can be selected based on the particular type of optical blocking material used. For example ultraviolet light infrared energy ultrasonic energy or vibrational energy can be used for certain types of optical blocking material .

As shown in the mask can be in the form of a pattern of text. For example the mask can be a circular or ring shaped adhesive label made of transparent material with printed text thereon. The printed text of the mask will block the energy source from activating the optical blocking material beneath the text while the transparent material of the adhesive label will allow the optical blocking material surrounding the text to be activated. The text pattern created by this mask will be sufficient to stop functional play of the optical device while reducing the amount of material that must be activated later to enable the optical device . For another example the mask can be a reusable tooling component that is placed over the optical device while energy is applied to the unmasked area of the optical device .

The present invention provides a new production method for selectively enabled optical devices that removes excess optical blocking material during the production process without affecting production speed or contaminating recycled material. The production method produces a product that meets a customer demand for final activation time at the retail point of sale of 1 to 3 seconds. Since the amount of energy and time required to activate a spot of optical blocking material is proportional to the number of molecules that need to be activated the prior activation of the unmasked optical blocking material during production results in a smaller amount of energy and time required for activation at the retail or supply chain location. Only the minimal amount of material required to prevent functional play of the optical device remains to be activated at the retail or supply chain location.

An activation system is provided at the retail store or supply chain location. The activation system applies energy to the remaining optical blocking material on the optical device to activate the optical device . The activating energy applied by the activation system is selected according to the type of optical blocking material used and will generally match the type of energy used during the production process e.g. ultraviolet infrared ultrasonic vibration etc. . The optical blocking material can be formulated to require a certain wavelength and or intensity of light or other type of energy to change its transparency. The exact activation energy required for activation may be difficult for an unauthorized user or thief to determine.

As shown in the mask can also be in the form of a ring that covers a select portion of the optical disc to disable functional play or other desired function of the disc . For example a ring of unactivated material produced by the mask can cover a substantial part of the lead in area of the optical device to disable the device. illustrates the optical device after the ring shaped mask is removed leaving a ring shaped area of unactivated non transparent material to prevent functional play.

The portion of optical blocking material activated during the production process is larger than the portion activated at the retail or supply chain location. As a result the amount of activation energy used at the retail or supply chain location can be substantially less than the amount of activation energy used to activate the unmasked portion during the production process. Further the duration and intensity of the energy applied by the activation system at the retail or supply chain location is substantially reduced as compared to what would be required to activate the entire optical device . This allows the final activation of the optical device to be performed quickly and efficiently thereby satisfying customer time demands and other constraints on the final activation system . Once activated the optical device can then be used in a normal manner.

In practice the activation system at the retail or supply chain location will employ an activating energy beam to selectively change the transparency of the optical blocking material to activate the optical device as needed. A user such as a retail store clerk or other supply chain employee may control the activation system at the time of purchase or movement through the supply chain. Alternatively the activation system can be automatically controlled at the desired location or controlled by another device such as a cash register in response to payment for the optical device at the retail location.

Infrared and or ultra sound equipment sufficient to activate an optical blocking material on an optical device is readily deployable in merchant checkout devices. Various embodiments of the present invention may induce optical changes in the optical blocking material to implement various features including but not limited to security and authentication features for supply chain management selective activation of a subset of available features of an optical device and so on.

Various embodiments of the present invention may provide important capabilities and features for merchants of various optical products such as CDs and DVDs. Such capabilities and features include simple and reliable one time activation at the point of sale extended exposure to direct sunlight will not activate the optical device activation time of 1 to 3 seconds at the point of sale activation through product packaging including product cases difficult to reverse engineer the activation system may be cost effectively implemented .and may not degrade the long term performance of the accompanying optical device.

Those skilled in the art may construct optical blocking materials and associated activation equipment to selectively alter the chemistry of the materials to affect transparency without undue experimentation. Conventional systems for inducing changes in material chemistry may be adapted for use with embodiments of the present invention without departing from the scope thereof.

A subsequent applying step includes applying the optical blocking material to a surface or layer of an optical device such as a read write surface through which light must pass to enable effective operation of the optical device . The optical blocking material is applied in thick enough layers and or in sufficient concentrations to disable operation of the device .

After the optical blocking material is applied to the optical device a masking step is performed by placing a mask over an area of the optical blocking material that will prevent a function of the optical device . In a specific embodiment the mask is placed over the optical blocking material covering a lead in area of the optical device to prevent functional play of the optical device.

An energy applying step is then performed by applying a specific type of energy to the unmasked area of the optical blocking material . The energy is selected and applied at a sufficient intensity and duration to make the unmasked area of optical blocking material change from a non transparent condition into a transparent condition. The mask is then removed at step and the optical device can be packaged and delivered to a retail store or supply chain location as indicated by step . The portion of the optical blocking material that was masked during the energy application in step remains in a non transparent condition at this time so that the optical device is disabled and less likely to be stolen or used before being properly purchased at the retail location.

At step the optical device is activated as needed at the retail location or supply chain location by applying a specific type of energy to the remaining optical blocking material that was masked during the earlier energy application step in the production process. The energy is selected and applied at a sufficient intensity and duration to make the remaining optical blocking material change from a non transparent condition into a transparent condition to activate the optical device .

While embodiments herein are discussed primarily with respect to one time activation of an optical disc at a point of sale to prevent or thwart theft of the optical device the invention is not limited thereto. For example different materials or combinations thereof may be employed to enable multiple state changes for a given energy sensitive layer thereby allowing multiple activations and deactivations of an optical device. Multiple activations and deactivations may be particularly important in rental applications such as movie rentals where optical devices may need repeated activation and deactivation.

Although embodiments of the invention are discussed primarily with respect to systems and methods for inhibiting theft of an optical device by selectively enabling the optical device after purchase other uses and features are possible. Various embodiments discussed herein are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the invention. For example energy sensitive inks in accordance with the present teachings may be employed to thwart copyright infringement.

In the description herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of components and or methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that an embodiment of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other apparatus systems assemblies methods components materials parts and or the like. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not specifically shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of embodiments of the present invention.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide systems and methods for selectively enabling and disabling optical devices. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

