---

title: Method and system for code generation
abstract: A method and system for providing target code to various computer systems. The target code is provided by a service. The service provides a mechanism for third-party developers to submit initial or base code for distribution to end-user computers as target code. The service converts the initial code to target code that is suitable for execution on the end-user computers. When the service receives the request for target code that matches certain requester-specified characteristics, it selects the intermediate code that best matches the requester-specified characteristics. The service then sends the target code to the requester.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990787&OS=08990787&RS=08990787
owner: Implicit Networks, Inc.
number: 08990787
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 424 203 filed Jun. 14 2006 now abandoned which is a is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 706 456 filed Nov. 3 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 907 446 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 240 683 filed on Oct. 16 2000.

The disclosed technology relates to delivery of computer software and in particular to dynamic delivery of custom beads to computer systems.

The following application is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein U.S. application Ser. No. 11 424 203 filed Jun. 14 2006.

Many attempts have been made to integrate various aspects of communications between devices within a home computing and consumer electronic environment. These attempts however have typically been customized to allow communications between certain types of devices but have not address the more generalized problem of communicating between a broader range of devices with incompatible formats. There are established standards for transmitting certain types of information from one device to another. For example the audio output of a television can be connected to the audio input of an amplifier for directing the audio to the high quality speakers attached to the amplifier. Similarly the audio output associated with a computer system can also be directed to the amplifier. It might not however be possible to direct the audio output of a telephone to that same amplifier. More generally there are limitations on to which devices output of certain devices can be directed. These limitations result primarily from not having a general solution for interconnecting the devices or converting the output in one format to an input format that is acceptable by another device. To direct the output of a telephone to an amplifier one would need to identify and locate an appropriate conversion routine for converting the output format of the telephone to the input format of the amplifier. If such a conversion routine cannot be found then one would need to program a special purpose conversion routine. In addition an appropriate transmission medium would need to be used to transmit the data from the telephone to the amplifier.

It would be desirable to have a technique in which such conversion routines could be easily identified downloaded to a home computer and installed.

The present invention provides a method and system for providing target code to various computer systems. The target code is provided by a service. The service provides a mechanism for third party developers to submit initial or base code for distribution to end user computers as target code. The service converts the initial code to target code that is suitable for execution on the end user computers. When the service receives the request for target code that matches certain requester specified characteristics it selects the intermediate code that best matches the requester specified characteristics. The service then sends the target code to the requester.

A method and system for providing target code to various computer systems is provided. In one embodiment the target code is provided by a HotBeads service. The HotBeads service provides a mechanism for third party developers to submit initial or base code for distribution to end user computers as target code. The code initial intermediate and target is referred to as a bead. The HotBeads service converts the initial code to target code that is suitable for execution on the end user computers. The HotBeads service may verify whether the submitted initial code satisfies the developer specified characteristics e.g. whether the code correctly converts GIF to JPEG . The developer specified characteristics may identify the overall function of the initial code and its compatible execution environments e.g. operating system or processor . The HotBeads service may also translate the initial code which may be source code into an intermediate format. When the HotBeads service receives the request for target code that matches certain requester specified characteristics it selects the intermediate code that best matches the requester specified characteristics. The HotBeads service may then perform various transformations on the intermediate code before compiling the intermediate code into a target code that is usable by the requesters computer. The transformations may include the optimizing of the code to use less memory or to execute faster. The HotBeads service then sends the target code to the requester.

The HotBeads service may use various billing models to charge for the providing of target code and to compensate for the receiving of initial code. The HotBeads service may compensate the developers of initial code based on the number of times that target code which derives from their initial code is sent to requesters. That compensation may also be based on quality of initial code as determined by the HotBeads service. The HotBeads service may charge requesters on a per use basis a flat fee basis for accessing unlimited target code or some combination of these bases. The requester may be charged directly or a third party associated with the requester e.g. employer or service provider may be charged. The fees charged may vary based on the requester specified characteristics. For example a requester may be charged a higher fee if certain optimizations of the target code is desired or if code from a specific developer is requested. A service provider may provide content to the user and use the HotBeads service to download the appropriate target code to the users computer.

The HotBeads service may use data metering to collect usage data to implement a billing model. Data metering is described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application entitled Method and System for Data Metering. Data metering can collect various statistics relating to the usage of beads. In general data metering can collect statistics relating to any computer resource used by a bead in processing data. For example data metering can collect the central processing unit i.e. CPU time and the amount of memory used by a bead to process data. Data metering can also collect the number of packets e.g. Ethernet packets processed by a bead. Data metering can execute as part of the Strings system and can provide the usage data to the HotBeads service. The HotBeads service can then compensate the developer of a bead based on the actual usage data for the bead. For example the end user may be charged 0.01 per 100 000 packets processed by a bead and the developer may receive 25 of that revenue. Alternatively if the end user is charged a flat fee then the developer of a bead may be compensated based on the percentage of the data that was processed by the developers bead. The end user may be charged based on a combination of billing models such as being charges a base fee plus a fee based on the amount of data processed. The end user may also be billed based on quality of service QoS settings. For example a service provider may configure the Strings system so that certain types of content will be given higher priority and thus the end users will be charged more for processing of such content.

In one embodiment the HotBeads service is implemented using the Strings operating environment. The Strings operating environment is described in the media mapping and demux patent applications which are incorporated by reference. Those patent applications use somewhat different terminology than used in this description. Those applications refer to the Strings operating environment as Portal to beads as protocols and to labels as media. Alternatively only portions of the HotBeads service may use the Stings operating environment. For example only the generating of target code from intermediate code might use the Strings operating environment. In one embodiment the beads provided by the developers are intended to execute in the Strings environment on the requester s computer. The HotBeads service may perform verifications to ensure that a developer provided bead is compatible with the Strings environment. For example the HotBeads service may compile a bead and then invoke various functions of the Strings application programming interface API to ensure that the results of the invocations are as expected.

In operation the home gateway computer may receive a request from a user via an appliance to access content through that appliance. For example the user of a web pad may select a particular television channel to view at that web pad. The home gateway computer uses Strings to configure the beads for converting the television signal to a signal that is compatible with the web pad. In the example of the web pad accepts an MPEG signal. Thus Strings configures a tuner bead and an MPEG encoder bead to convert the tuner signal into an MPEG signal. The web pad may already include an MPEG decoder bead. If the gateway computer or the web pad does not have the appropriate beads for processing the television channel data the Feature Manager requests an appropriate bead from the HotBeads service.

From the above description it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the HotBeads service may send beads included in Features to the requesters. Features are described in detail in the Feature Management System for Facilitating Communication and Shared Functionality Among Components which is incorporated by reference. Also one skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments can be used in many environments other than the home environment such as office manufacturing and so on. Accordingly the invention is not limited except by the appended claims.

