---

title: Audio comparison using phoneme matching
abstract: Audio comparison using phoneme matching is described, including evaluating audio data associated with a file, identifying a sequence of phonemes in the audio data, associating the file with a product category based on a match indicating the sequence of phonemes is substantially similar to another sequence of phonemes, the file being stored, and accessing the file when a request associated with the product category is detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07912724&OS=07912724&RS=07912724
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 07912724
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070118
---
The present invention relates generally to audio recognition and software. More specifically audio comparison using phoneme matching is described.

Online targeting and delivery of content accounts for substantial revenue generated using media such as the Internet and World Wide Web web . For example online advertisements can be targeted to specific users or types of users at advertising rates that are directly related to the degree of targeting accuracy. In some conventional solutions user activity can be monitored by observing text entry or other input provided by the user. However conventional solutions are inaccurate problematic and in many cases crude.

Conventionally advertisements are a form of content that may be generated in various types of formats including text audio video images photos and other types. Analyzing content to determine what types of advertisements should be presented to a user is a challenging task often relying upon the observation of user and system inputs including preferences behavior and other parameters. When user behavior is observed advertisements are presented based on associated identifying information such as metadata. As an example an automotive advertisement featuring a static display banner advertisement can be identified and placed in an automotive category by the advertising agency or advertisement provider of the ad. In some conventional solutions when advertisements including content other than text or static display information i.e. video audio multimedia are analyzed problems can occur.

With multimedia content i.e. content that includes video audio text images photos or a combination thereof determining which content to deliver to a user based on observed behavior specified preferences or other criteria is difficult. Conventional solutions for analyzing multimedia content to determine how to classify and target the content also require highly customized application development requiring high development costs and resources. Using techniques such as speech recognition content e.g. audio video text graphics images and others can be analyzed classified and categorized but incur significant costs. For example audio content e.g. audio files e.g. songs music files and the like video containing audio audio signals transmitted as digital data using protocols such as voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and others is difficult to analyze and requires using speech recognition techniques that are processor intensive requiring substantial time processor compute resources and highly skilled programmers i.e. developers to write complex applications employing analytical techniques such as neural networks and Hidden Markov Models HMMs to perform speech recognition. However conventional solutions employing these techniques are expensive and require substantial system processor and development requirements.

Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

In some examples the described techniques may be implemented as an application or as a module or sub component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. If implemented as software the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming development scripting or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Java Javascript Ajax COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. Design publishing and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver Shockwave and Fireworks may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

Audio comparison using phoneme recognition is described including evaluating an audio signal or data audio data associated with a file to interpret and resolve one or more phonemes associated with the audio data. Phonemes in audio data may be recognized using any type of phoneme recognition technique. In some examples phoneme recognition may be performed to identify keywords categories or classifications of content that when matched to keywords found in user behavior input or data. When matched content associated with a given phoneme or set of phonemes may be presented to the user providing accurate targeting of content. In some examples advertisements or other content may be evaluated to identify i.e. recognize phonemes. Identified phonemes may be used to categorize index or otherwise classify an advertisement. When other content e.g. a VoIP call user behavior or input and others is evaluated and matched to phonemes associated with a given advertisement the matched advertisement may be delivered served and the like. Matches may be scored ranked prioritized or otherwise indicated based on the similarity of a sequence of phonemes within an evaluated audio signal being compared to another sequence of phonemes stored in a database. In some examples phonemes in a database may be determined from other content e.g. advertisements including audio content data or signals . Depending upon the similarity of the audio signal in the file i.e. based on phoneme recognition a score may be generated. The resulting score may be used to search or identify other content for presentation in for example a user interface providing contextual relevance and targeted delivery based on matching or recognition of phonemes or a sequence of phonemes. By using phonemes to match audio content with advertisements stored in a database or repository advertisements and other content may be targeted more accurately.

In some examples clients may be implemented using various types of endpoint devices. For example clients may be implemented as personal computers PC or any other type of computing device. Further clients may be implemented as notebook laptop computers cell smart phones or personal digital assistants PDAS respectively. In other examples clients may be implemented as any type of computing device.

In other examples server may be implemented and used to deliver i.e. serve content information or data requested by any of clients . For example content requested by client may be performed by using a web browsing application not shown installed on client . Content may include text documents files images photos applications or any type of information or data. When requested from server content may be delivered to the requesting client i.e. clients . In other examples server may also be a server configured for a given purpose e.g. ad server web server content server application server web services gateway and others . Techniques for audio comparison using phoneme recognition such as those described herein may be implemented using the above described system and topology. In some examples audio comparison using phoneme recognition may be performed locally on one or more of clients . In other examples audio comparison using phoneme recognition may be performed remotely or in a distributed manner using server and one or more of clients . Further other system topologies clients end and intermediate devices and other implementation techniques may be used and are not limited to those described above.

In some examples speech recognizer may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Speech recognizer provides speech recognition linguistic decoding and other functionality as described below in connection with . For example speech recognizer may be used to evaluate a file or other data e.g. audio signals audio data video data and others to identify phonemes found in audio signals or data embedded intermingled mixed or otherwise detected in a given file e.g. files . As an example data associated with audio detected for example in a given advertisement provided by an ad server or ad serving network may be evaluated by system to identify a product category. The identified product category may be used to store i.e. locally or remotely the advertisement based on detected phonemes found in audio signals or data within the advertisement. When a user for example types text or provides other input that identifies a product category i.e. entering a keyword into a search field phonemes associated with the user input may be determined and compared against phonemes stored in repositories or . A score may be generated to indicate the similarity of one phoneme to another and if the score meets a user or system specified threshold a file e.g. an advertisement stored based on a product category associated with the phoneme may be accessed e.g. retrieved downloaded sent and the like . Once accessed an advertisement may be presented in an interface or using an application on a display. Thus the advertisement is selected based on phoneme comparisons that provide highly targeted accurate matching of the advertisement i.e. file or other data to user behavior or input. In other examples speech recognizer may be implemented differently and is not limited to the examples shown and described.

Here speech recognizer may also include phoneme module which may be used to identify phonemes within audio signals data or the like. Phoneme module may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. In some examples phoneme module may be configured to evaluate data provided by other modules e.g. logic module comparison module content module and others within application or from sources external to application e.g. another application operating system or data port using API . When audio data e.g. digitized data associated with an audio signal and the like is evaluated by phoneme module one or more phonemes may be identified. For example content including audio data may be received by speech recognizer and evaluated by phoneme module to determine whether any phonemes are present. If audio data is detected then phoneme module performs an analysis to determine whether one or more phonemes are present. After determining which phonemes are present in audio data the audio data may be further processed by comparison module logic module content module or modules functions or features apart from those shown and described.

In some examples after audio data has been processed for phonetic recognition of phonemes the audio data may be classified and stored in repository local or remote repository by content module . In other examples the audio data may be further processed by comparison module which may include score generator . Here comparison module may be used to compare phonemes found in audio data with other phonemes previously detected identified classified stored or otherwise processed. Other phonemes previously processed may be associated with content that has been processed and stored in repository or remote repository . For example phonemes identified in audio data may be compared against a database of other phonemes previously processed. When a comparison is performed by comparison module a score is generated indicating the probability of a match between the phonemes in the audio data and other phonemes previously found in other content. In some examples the higher the numerical value of the score the greater the probability that the phonemes are matched against other phonemes associated with content stored in repository or remote repository . Here repository may be a local database data mart data warehouse storage network or other storage facility used to store content information and data. Likewise remote repository may also be a database data mart data warehouse storage network or other storage facility used to store content information and data but is in data communication with application using one or more networks. Further remote repository may be implemented using one or multiple databases data marts data warehouses storage networks or other storage facilities. As an example three 3 product categories i.e. product categories are shown but any number of product categories may be used and are not limited to the examples shown. Likewise any number of files i.e. files or groups of data representing content such as a video advertisement an audio recording a multimedia i.e. including audio video or other visual graphical or audio effects movie and others may be stored in repository and limitation is not drawn to the examples shown and described.

Here when a probability indicates phonemes identified in audio data are substantially or exactly similar to phonemes associated with content previously processed then logic module may direct i.e. instruct send a signal to or the like content module to retrieve the matching content for presentation. The retrieved content may be communicated using API to another application e.g. web browsing desktop e mail messaging or other or operating system thus enabling presentation on an interface associated with the observed user s behavior. In other words user behavior such as typing text or interfacing with an application may be observed. Observed user behavior may be used to identify keywords or product categories from which to retrieve content previously processed using phoneme recognition techniques. By retrieving content that is relevant or related to the user s behavior highly targeted and accurate advertisements may be presented on a user interface thus increasing the likelihood that a user may engage in commercial activity. Further the above described techniques may be used to process multimedia content e.g. video audio graphical visual or other types of effects to identify phonemes that may be used to classify store retrieve or otherwise operate on content. In some examples the content may be stored as files according to one or more product categories. Each product category may have one or more phonemes previously associated that may be used by comparison module to match phonemes identified in processed audio data and to retrieve content from product categories based on the match. Phonemes associated with each product category may be recorded manually automatically semi automatically or in any other manner that may be useful to building a database of phonemes that may be used in comparisons performed by comparison module resulting in the generation of a score i.e. probability by score generator . In other examples system and the above described elements may be varied in implementation function or structure and are not limited to the examples provided.

Here ad server may be configured to serve files over network to application . In some examples files may be online advertisements commercials videos or sound recordings for products goods services or brands of organizations or individuals. In other examples files may be images photos text documents or other types of information and data. Further files may be served by ad server using a distributed architecture and for example stream data information or content to application .

Additionally content server may be configured to serve files over network to application . In some examples files may be content other than online advertisements commercials videos or sound recordings for products goods services or brands of organizations or individuals. For example files may be content requested by a user such as a web page website Internet site found at a uniform resource locator URL uniform resource indicator URI or other address. In other examples files may be images photos text documents or any other type of information or data stored locally or remotely. Further files may be served by ad server using a distributed architecture to for example stream information or data to application . Other types of servers than ad server or content server may be implemented in system and the above described techniques are not limited to the examples provided. Further system and the above described elements may be varied in implementation function or structure and are not limited to the examples provided.

Here if a request is not detected the process ends. If a request is detected then a file may be accessed and sent or a copy thereof to the requesting location or destination . The above described process may be varied in implementation design order and function and is not limited to the examples provided above.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution.

The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

