---

title: System, apparatus and method for determining correct metadata from community-submitted data
abstract: A system, apparatus, and method for processing or correcting metadata used to characterize content such as images, video, books, or music, where that metadata may be provided by a community of users or other source. The metadata may be searched as part of a process of identifying and accessing content of interest to a user or of sharing content among users of a network. The metadata is typically a string or strings of characters that is submitted by a community, so that the accuracy of specific data cannot be guaranteed and consistent formats and unambiguous descriptions may not be used by all members of the community.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305119&OS=09305119&RS=09305119
owner: MYSPACE LLC
number: 09305119
owner_city: Beverly Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070731
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 869 994 filed Dec. 14 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herein.

The present invention is directed to systems apparatus and methods for correcting data or resolving ambiguities in data and more specifically to correcting metadata used to describe content that is submitted by a relevant community or network of users.

The growth of the Internet and the availability of high speed communications networks have contributed to a growing interest among users in the creation and sharing of digital content. This content may take the form of images books videos or sound files such as music for example. Some of the content may be created by a user and shared with others in a network of users while some content may be commercially available and uploaded to the Internet for access and distribution to others via a downloading process. In either case the content is typically described using metadata such as title artist or creator source version description of content etc. A person seeking the content typically enters examples of such metadata as keywords into a search engine and then examines the results of the search to find the content they desire.

The metadata used to characterize the content typically takes the form of one or more strings of characters which form a data n tuple where the characters may include letters numbers and standard typographic symbols e.g. . A problem may arise because while the categories of metadata may be standardized e.g. title and artist for music content some or all of the metadata used to describe the content may be ambiguous contain spelling errors or represent one of several generally accepted or understood ways of describing the same information. For example even a well known musical group such as The Beatles may be entered as an artist name in multiple forms Beatles Beetles Beatles The etc. While this example is rather simple it illustrates that there are multiple possible forms that metadata may take for even well known and familiar categories of metadata. Although this example introduces a recognizable spelling error and a limited amount of ambiguity as to what is meant it may still cause problems for certain types of consumer applications. Such applications include for example those whose reliability or utility to a user are highly dependent upon exact matching of metadata search terms.

One of the problems created by variations in the metadata used to describe content is that of efficiently enabling the search of retrieval and distribution of digital content such as images videos books and music when that content is described by potentially incorrect misspelled or ambiguous metadata. This problem is made even greater by the growth and use of social networks for sharing content. This is because such networks enable users to search content in the content libraries of multiple users where each such user may have contributed incorrect misspelled or ambiguous metadata to the description of that content. As a result as the number of users increases both the potential variations in the way that content is characterized and the resulting metadata errors are likely to increase.

Thus from one perspective dirty metadata is or may become a problem in many consumer internet multimedia applications where in the context of the present invention dirty metadata includes but is not limited to incorrect misspelled ambiguous or simply confusing data that is meant to characterize or describe some aspect of content or other data. As discussed in music related services misspelled ambiguous or missing metadata information may cause confusion about the identity of an artist song or album that is being searched for or recommended. In video or image related searches finding a desired video or image is made more difficult in the situation where multiple videos or images are returned as a match to the search parameters where the search parameters are typically used to identify the subject matter or characteristics of the desired content or as data used to otherwise describe the image or video . In this type of search as well as others a user would prefer to reduce the number of unique hits that result from the search by having incorrect metadata corrected so that search results are more relevant and not duplicative and metadata more accurately reflects the actual content.

As a further example most consumers with digital music libraries e.g. iTunes distributed by Apple have dirty metadata in their music libraries misspelled artist names or track names missing or incorrect track album or genre information etc. The flawed metadata can cause problems when trying to manage one s music for example in finding a favorite song whose name is misspelled in the library creating a playlist manually or automatically when the tracks in the playlist aren t labeled properly or trying to receive recommendations for new music from other members of a network when the original music isn t properly labeled or identified or at least identified in an unambiguous manner .

As noted these problems are particularly troublesome in social networks or Internet services involving posting of multimedia content or sharing because such networks combine the dirty metadata of multiple users in one place. This means not only that the volume of incorrect metadata is greater but also the possible variations in that metadata. As an example on the video service YouTube now part of Google a popular video may be uploaded to the YouTube service many times by different consumers and when searching for the video the same search may yield multiple possibly equivalent results. This creates a burden on the user to determine which video is the best to watch to satisfy their interests or to otherwise filter the search results. Within the music space there are numerous potential social networking applications or services that add value for users but that are either impossible or cannot be implemented in an optimal or desirable way without proper metadata. For example sharing music playlists between two users is only realistic and desirable if the person sharing the playlist has proper metadata to describe the music in the playlist and the person receiving the playlist has similarly proper metadata to know which songs from the playlist he she already owns .

Although the problem of using incorrect or ambiguous metadata to describe content has been recognized at present there is not a satisfactory solution to the problem. One possible solution that has been suggested is to compare the dirty metadata to a known good database of metadata and then to correct misspellings based on the accepted known good spellings. In this regard the most widely used application service that performs this correction based on accepted good metadata is the Windows Media Player WMP from Microsoft coupled with a service known as the Windows Media Internet Service WMIS metadata service. This combination can be used to correct metadata because the Windows Media Player has the capability of looking at every media item in a consumer s digital library. The WMP then transfers the relevant metadata to the WMIS service where a server side spellchecking algorithm compares that metadata to a large database of known good metadata . The output of the service is properly spelled metadata which is returned to the user and used to correct misspellings in the user s media library. For example a consumer may have a digitized song labeled with the artist name Brittany Spears in this case the WMP will send the artist name to the WMIS service which identifies it as a misspelling by comparing it to a database which provides the proper spelling i.e. Britney Spears .

However as recognized by the inventors of the present invention there are at least two primary problems with such a solution to the dirty or incorrect metadata problem 

What is desired is a system apparatus and method for correcting metadata used to characterize content that is submitted by a community of users where such system apparatus and method overcomes the noted disadvantages of existing approaches.

In some embodiments the present invention is directed to systems apparatus and methods for processing or correcting metadata used to characterize content such as images video books or music where that metadata may be provided by a community of users or other source. The metadata may be searched as part of a process of identifying and accessing content of interest to a user or of sharing content among users of a network. Some embodiments of the present invention are applicable to consumer multimedia applications and services and the management of multimedia metadata within such applications and services to provide search content retrieval content management and similar functions. A further example of a possible use of the invention is the correction of network accessible metadata used to characterize music images movies or books to enable more effective sharing of content via a recommendation or other process. In such cases the metadata is typically a string or strings of characters and the metadata is submitted by a community so that the accuracy of specific data cannot be guaranteed and consistent formats and unambiguous descriptions may not be used by all members of the community.

In some embodiments of the invention metadata describing content is accessed in the form of an n tuple of data with the data typically being one or more strings composed of alphanumeric characters and common typographic symbols. An example would be an n tuple comprised of a song s artist title album source and genre. The n tuple may first be compared to previously input and stored metadata. If the n tuple has already been input to the system and associated with a standardized or canonical form then that form is used for the further processing of the metadata. Such further processing may include determining the preferred best or most popular metadata corresponding to that standardized or canonical form and then using that preferred best or most popular metadata for further processing such as to provide recommendations or identify a desired source for the content.

If the n tuple has not already been associated with a standardized or canonical form then a canonicalization process or set of processes is applied to the metadata. This process or set of processes are intended to reduce or convert the metadata to a form in which it may more easily and accurately be compared to other metadata either as initially input or after application of the canonicalization process to the other metadata. The same canonical form may result from application of the canonicalization process to one or more than one metadata string. Further each metadata string may have an associated frequency of occurrence popularity or other metric associated with the data. In some embodiments for each canonical form the inventive process determines the unprocessed metadata having the highest metric value that resulted in the canonical form after application of the canonicalization process to that unprocessed metadata.

The form of unprocessed metadata having the highest metric value is then selected as the preferred correct or best metadata and the canonical form is mapped to or associated with that correct metadata. This causes all other metadata that resulted in or in future applications of the canonicalization process may result in the same canonical form to be mapped to that correct metadata through the intermediary of the canonical form. The correct metadata is then used for applications or services in which metadata is searched or compared to determine content of interest produce recommendations etc.

Further in some embodiments in addition to this type of data processing the inventive system may also use contextually relevant information to process the raw metadata or canonical forms to further reduce errors and ambiguities. For example as metadata is processed it is possible that multiple canonical forms for the same content will be generated. These forms can be processed using contextually relevant information to correct misspellings ambiguities or other errors followed by re mapping the incorrect canonical or metadata forms to the correct or desired ones. Such re mapping may be performed automatically in accordance with a set of rules or conditions or may be performed by a user of the system as a result of a manual process.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of processing a plurality of metadata used to characterize content and includes accessing the plurality of metadata processing the plurality of metadata to produce a canonical form associating the canonical form with one of the plurality of metadata where the one of the plurality of metadata having an associated metric value and utilizing the one of the plurality of metadata as an input in a data processing operation.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the detailed description of the present invention.

In some embodiments the present invention is directed to systems apparatus and methods for processing incorrect or ambiguous metadata where that metadata is used to characterize content. The content is typically digital content such as music images video electronic books or similar content. In some embodiments the inventive system utilizes a combination of heuristics and rules to identify metadata referring to content that is potentially the same and then uses a popularity measure or other metric to determine the best estimate of the correct metadata that is the most likely correct metadata for that category or content.

Although the present invention will be described with reference to example embodiments it is noted that practice of the invention is not limited to those embodiments. For example the content may be audio video animation images or other forms of multimedia. The metadata may be in the form of a string or strings of alphanumeric characters although others forms or formats of data may be used. The data structure used to store and organize the metadata and results of the inventive processes may be the database form described herein although other forms of data structures such as data trees node based models etc. may also be used. The data processing operations may be performed real time as data is acquired as part of a background operation or a combination of these methods. The data processing operations may be performed locally and the results communicated over a network to a centralized data processing and storage element or remotely by a computing device connected to the data sources over a network. Further although certain elements of the inventive system may be depicted as residing in a server or servers or connected by means of a network or networks such elements may be separate from one another or combined and connected as desired to implement the functions and processes of the invention.

The input data is first checked to determine if it matches previously input and stored metadata stage . If it does match previously input data then that data will have already been processed to determine the corresponding canonical form for that data and such form may be identified stage . Further in accordance with some embodiments of the invention the identified canonical form will be associated with a corresponding preferred or best set of input metadata the determination of which will be described further with reference to the figure and that best input metadata will be used for further processing of the originally input metadata in other applications or services such as to retrieve content construct a play list share content provide a recommendation etc. stage .

If the input metadata does not match previously input data then a canonicalization process or processes are applied to the input data stage . The canonicalization process or processes are used to reduce or convert the input metadata to a standardized or canonical form in which it may more efficiently be compared to other data. The process or processes applied to the data may take a generic form applied broadly to the input data or be specific to the data being processed such as based on the type format or some characteristic of the data . In some embodiments of the invention the canonicalization process takes the form of a function Canonical Form Output of where canonicalize and is the input data. One purpose of introducing a standardized or canonical form is to reduce the number of possible variations in the metadata to a smaller number of representative forms. However to do this effectively the canonicalization process should be constructed or defined so as to not introduce additional ambiguity i.e. it should be subject to certain constraints or limitations.

For example one approach is to construct the canonicalization process so that the output of the process is generally recognizable as corresponding to the input i.e. to only apply rules or processes that do not alter the basic meaning of the data. Another approach is to constrain the number of canonical forms that may be produced and thereby assist in reducing the errors or ambiguities in the metadata by introducing knowledge about the data its formats and possible variations in the form of a condition requirement that for a string x where x x . . . xrepresent strings that satisfy a relationship or represent examples of inputs that are desired or intended to be converted reduced or mapped to the same canonical form. As an example if several forms of metadata for an artist or author are known to represent the same artist or author e.g. Beatles The Beatles Beatles The beatles beatles the then this knowledge should be introduced into the process so that the canonicalization function operates to produce the same output for all such forms of input data. Similarly capitalization accents spaces the ampersand symbol and certain words or phrases e.g and the a may be removed or altered without loss of meaning or increasing ambiguity. As an example canonicalize M tley Cr e should provide the same output as canonicalize motley crue . Based on these observations a canonicalization heuristic rule set algorithm or process may be defined along with a condition or conditions of the form noted. As an example a possible canonicalization process could take the form of a set of rules or operations such as 

Note that this is merely one example of a possible canonicalization process and as with other possible processes it may be tuned or otherwise adjusted by testing its operation against a set of inputs whose outputs have a desired relationship. Another possible canonicalization algorithm or process would be to convert the words in a data string into phonemes i.e. language specific symbols describing the sounds in the string. In such processing the phonemes are used as a basis set to which more complex data is reduced for ease in comparison. Yet another possible process would be to separately canonicalize the individual words in the string and then sort them alphabetically prior to further analysis. Note that in one sense a goal of the canonicalization process is to operate on input data to map multiple forms of input data to the same output subject to constraints based on knowledge of which forms of input data should be taken to represent the same information and hence be reduced to a common canonical form. Note that generic canonicalization or data reduction processes that satisfy this goal and function as desired for the operation of the invention would be suitable in implementing some embodiments of the invention.

After application of the canonicalization process to the input data the resulting output is termed a canonical form. Note that as a result of applying the canonicalization process to a set or group of inputs multiple inputs may be mapped to the same output this is in fact a desirable aspect of the process . Further each of those inputs may have an associated value metric frequency of occurrence popularity measure or other relevant measure that may be used to compare or order the inputs. The inventive method next determines which of the forms of the input data that produced a common canonical form that form should be associated with based on the value metric etc. stage . This association linking mapping or similar operation serves to replace multiple input forms of the metadata with a single form of metadata that is taken to represent the preferred best or correct form for the information represented by that metadata via the intermediary of the canonical form. This sequence of steps or stages may be represented as 

As mentioned the process of determining the preferred best correct or otherwise described input form that the canonical form is mapped to or associated with may be based on one or more metrics measures or the like. Examples include frequency of occurrence so that the most common form of the input is adopted as the preferred best or correct form popularity among members of a defined network so that the form suggested by the greatest number of individual members is selected a weighted sum of factors such as usage of a form by members of a social network having some indicia of reliability such as a high number of previously accepted forms of metadata a form having certain attributes or lacking certain attributes etc.

After determination of the preferred best or correct metadata the canonical form is associated with that metadata stage . This association may be implemented by creation of a pointer in a database between the canonical form and the preferred best or correct metadata or by another suitable operation. However accomplished the association is intended to cause further operations that would utilize the metadata forms that are mapped or reduced to the canonical form to instead use the preferred best or correct form of the metadata which the canonical form is associated with stage . As will be described these operations include applications and services such as search and presentation of search results recommendations comparisons of play lists or content libraries between members of a network etc.

An output of the processing performed by metadata input system is processed metadata which is stored in its canonical form or forms in metadata storage element . Note that processed metadata represents one form of processed metadata that may be generated by the inventive system and that storage element also stores the raw metadata obtained from metadata source . Storage element may include pointers or links between the raw metadata and the corresponding canonical form or forms to which the raw data is converted or mapped. Note that as discussed in a typical situation multiple examples or forms of raw metadata may be mapped to the same canonical form. In some embodiments storage element may be a relational or other form of database structured to provide links between data types where those data types include raw metadata strings processed metadata or canonical forms and the data may be stored in tables files or other suitable format.

In addition to the determination of a canonical form or forms for the input metadata metadata input system also determines which of the raw metadata mapped to a specific canonical value or form represents the raw metadata that should be used for further processing of search requests content retrieval recommendations or other processing that provides content related services. In the context of the present invention the specific raw metadata that will be associated with the canonical form and used for further processing is termed the preferred best or correct form of that metadata. It is to be understood that determination of the preferred best or correct metadata may require additional processing and may be implemented using one or more rules heuristics algorithms or measures that act to determine which potential candidate metadata should be accepted as the best or most accurate representation of the information mapped to each canonical form. In response to such determination the inventive system maps or links the canonical form back to that preferred best or correct metadata. Thus metadata storage may contain raw metadata as provided by metadata source canonical form or forms of that metadata pointers or associations between the raw metadata and the corresponding canonical form and a pointer back from a canonical form to the preferred best or correct raw metadata. Further details regarding the structure of the storage element or database data formats data schema and associations between the data stored in the element will be described with reference to .

In addition to the data processing described system may also include additional processing stages that act on the metadata and or canonical forms stored in storage element where these processing stages may be used to reduce ambiguities in the data perform spelling correction incorporate contextual knowledge about the data or forms it may take or otherwise process the data to assist in providing desired services. Examples of such additional processing will be described with reference to although it is to be understood that such additional processing is not limited to the processes described with reference to those Figures nor to the manner in which those processes are described as being implemented.

In some applications of using metadata to describe or otherwise characterize content a user may be interested in a display of the processed metadata. In such situations the system may include presentation system which is capable of accessing metadata storage and providing processed metadata to user . Note that processed metadata may or may not differ from processed metadata depending upon whether additional metadata and or canonical form processing has occurred. Presentation system may include but does not require and may not be limited to processes or methods that access metadata storage and process format or otherwise act on data stored therein to provide the preferred best or correct metadata and or the result of using such metadata to perform some operation to user by means of an application programming interface API user interface web page messaging system etc. Note that as metadata is input to and processed by system the specific metadata that is presented to a user may change as a result of the determination of a different preferred best or correct form of the metadata.

As has been described the inventive system processes raw metadata used to describe or otherwise characterize content into a canonical form and then maps that canonical form back to a preferred best or correct form of input metadata. As will be understood in the course of processing multiple instances of raw metadata even if those metadata are intended to refer to the same content more than one canonical form may be generated. This means that each canonical form may map back to a different preferred best or correct form of input metadata. And as a result of the possibility of multiple canonical forms being generated from raw metadata that is intended to refer to the same content incorrect or ambiguous metadata may still end up being used in some applications. In recognition of this possibility the inventive system further includes additional processing operations intended to reduce ambiguity correct spelling and otherwise provide a more optimal process of identifying the appropriate metadata to use in a specific application or use case as has been referred to with reference to .

In the example depicted in the canonicalization process removes leading or trailing articles e.g. The and apostrophes to generate a canonical form. Next as has been described the system maps or associates each canonical form with the form of input metadata which represents the preferred best or correct metadata that has been processed to produce the canonical form as indicated by an asterisk representing the most popular form of the example input data . The result is a mapping or associating of input data to one or more canonical forms and then to a preferred best or correct form of metadata for that information via the intermediary of a canonical form. In the example shown in there are two canonical forms Beetles and Beatles and two corresponding preferred best or correct forms of input metadata Beetle s and The Beatles .

As mentioned as the number of sources of input metadata increases so too may the number of possible variations in the form of the input metadata and canonical forms produced by the inventive system. In some instances these canonical forms may represent the same information and it is desirable to introduce processes rules heuristics or other forms of knowledge that may be used to determine if the set of input data or generated canonical forms may be simplified or reduced. As will be described one method of correcting errors in metadata or reducing the set of possible canonical forms is to apply one or more of contextual knowledge spell checking or other processes to the metadata or set of canonical forms as indicated by process in the figure. In the example shown in the figure such additional processing acted to reduce the number of canonical forms or raw metadata and produce the single output The Beatles which in this case represents the preferable form of the metadata describing the artist for the musical track being considered. Note that although the figure suggests application of the additional processing to the best metadata such additional processing may also be applied to raw metadata canonical forms or other data. In some embodiments it may be advantageous to apply the additional processing to a sample of data types i.e. best data raw metadata canonical forms etc. to determine which if any yields preferred results for the desired application. Note that this may depend on the type of additional processing being implemented as well as the format of the data types.

As described in some implementations of the present invention two or more sets of metadata may be involved the raw or un canonicalized set that includes the raw data provided by users or other sources and the canonical set of data. The canonical set is typically a smaller set of data due to the operation of the canonicalization algorithm in mapping multiple raw items to a single canonical item. Note that in some embodiments the data stored in the database or other data storage element may have the following characteristics 

As an example of the inventive processes and data formats consider the following The users are Joe Sue Bob and Mary. They each have slightly different spellings or forms of metadata for the musical content song Blackbird by The Beatles in the example these result in the following inputs to the system 

The above n tuples are the data provided by the metadata source or sources in and represent a user or data provider name artist name and song or track name. The example data will result in the following data in the schema described with reference to during the initial data import 

As described in some embodiments of the invention given a set of raw versions of metadata that have been reduced or converted to the same canonical form of metadata the invention may apply one or more processes rules heuristics or other knowledge to determine which is the preferred best or correct form of the metadata. One suitable type of metric is a social network based popularity measure as indicated by the number of unique users who have reported a metadata item with a specific raw spelling. In this form of metric the system considers the most reported item to be the best spelling or at least the most commonly accepted and hence correct to the network of users . Note that other possible metrics include weighing a given user s contribution with some sort of trustworthiness metric using additional data from multiple 3parties to include or exclude possible candidate data and or using a combination of multiple factors that contribute to reliability of the data as weighted by the appropriate coefficients.

Assume that the inventive system finds the best spelling or form of metadata by using a popularity metric. Notice that in the example given the system produces one canonical combination of artist and track based on four raw input versions. The system has one canonical artist with three raw versions. Both Joe and Mary have reported The Beatles while the other two spellings have one user each therefore the most popular spelling for the artist is The Beatles so the system would fill in 1 in the unameid field of cartists.

Note that although the example describes the use of data tables fields and pointers as part of a structured database other data storage structures formats and schema may be used in implementing some embodiments of the invention. Such other structures formats and schema include but are not limited to in memory structures XML representations filesystem storage flat file relational databases and the storage of data as strings that are operated upon at runtime.

As mentioned with regards to in some situations it may be desirable to process the raw metadata and or canonical forms further to reduce ambiguities correct spelling or otherwise introduce contextual or other knowledge about the data or system in an effort to improve the quality accuracy or utility of the data. In some embodiments such processing would be intended to improve the results that may be obtained when using the metadata for search content retrieval recommendations generating or comparing play lists or other services. Note that such additional processing may be performed in real time as raw data is input in single processing or batch mode as part of a background process or in any other suitable manner. The additional processing may be desirable because the processes described previously may not be sufficient to clean up or correct metadata or sufficiently reduce ambiguities in cases of misspellings collaborations and other formats that may be common in the metadata used to describe content in the libraries of users.

For example even if two raw metadata items do not map to the same canonical item using some of the processes described those items may still refer to the same content and it would be desirable to map them to the same canonical item to improve the accuracy and utility of certain services or functions. Specific examples include artists using multiple pseudonyms misspellings in the metadata and collaborations between artists that would preferably be attributed to one or both of the artists instead of to a third collaborative entity. Note that the additional data processing to be described may be applied to the data as an additional step or as part of one of the preceding metadata or canonical form processes. Further in cases where the additional processing suggests that a correction needs to be applied the system may be configured to ignore the result of the standard canonicalization algorithm and permit the manual mapping or association of selected the raw metadata to the correct preferred or desired canonical form where in the case of metadata processing the correct preferred or desired canonical form is that form associated with the corrected raw metadata found through the additional processing .

As an example in some embodiments the inventive system may include a process or processes for correcting misspellings in raw metadata and or canonical forms. This process or processes may be made more effective by incorporating information about the metadata or canonical forms and the underlying content into the data processing. For example in the case of artist and song name metadata by introducing contextual knowledge regarding the types of data the inventive system can detect and automatically correct some misspellings in artist and track names and map the raw metadata containing misspellings to the correct canonical form using a process such as the following 

As mentioned the spell correction process or processes may be applied to raw metadata or to canonical forms. If applied to raw metadata the incorrect data may be linked pointed to mapped or otherwise associated with the canonical form associated with the desired form of the metadata. Similarly if the spell correction is performed on the canonical forms then a pointer or other reference or association may be established between the raw metadata that resulted in the incorrect form and the correct or desired canonical form.

Next for each potential matching artist the process compares the content song titles track data attributed to each potential match against the similar data or information e.g. song titles attributed to the selected artist stage . If the song titles attributed to the potential match are close enough have enough in common or satisfy a desired metric then the artists are considered to be the same and the raw metadata data for the potential artist is linked to pointed to mapped or otherwise associated with the selected artist stage . This causes all raw metadata for the potential artist to be mapped to the selected artist typically by pointing linking or otherwise associating the metadata for the potential match to the canonical form or forms associated with the selected artist .

In addition to correcting misspellings the inventive system may also include a process or processes for separating or otherwise dealing with potential collaborations and attributing the collaborative content to one or more artists. Collaborations between artists are common and are often described as Eminem feat. Dido Eminem Dido Eminem and Dido etc. As recognized by the inventors another method of improving the metadata used to describe or characterize content is to detect indicia of collaborations such as the featuring string split the collaborative name into the composite artists and match the composite names against an existing artist database. If both of the composite names match a known artist then the track can be attributed to either one or more of the collaborating artists as opposed to attributing the content to a new different artist either manually or by execution of an automated process.

Further the inventive system may also be used to map one or more pseudonyms of an artist to a desired form of the artist s name in the metadata. As recognized by the inventors some artists perform under multiple names. Note that in certain of these cases the system may require a manual mapping of the multiple raw versions to the single correct canonical version i.e. the canonical version associated with the proper form of the data . Note that as mentioned the processes described with reference to the figures may be modified or supplemented by manual linking or other association of multiple raw spellings of metadata to one best version via the intermediary of a canonical form to which the incorrect data is pointed or mapped .

Next at stage the selected data is processed to identify the preferred correct or otherwise desired form of the data. This processing may take the form of spelling corrections filtering based on application of contextual knowledge determination of a relevant metric or other suitable form of introducing relevant information regarding the data data types relationships between data or data types or reliability of the data based on for example social network derived valuations . A goal of the processing performed at stage is to determine in some sense better more accurate more likely correct or otherwise preferable forms of the processed data. After such determination the less preferable forms of raw metadata canonical form s or both may be re mapped that is be correctly associated linked to pointed to etc. the preferred form s as indicated by stage .

As mentioned the inventive system apparatus and methods may be implemented in several forms or architectures. Such forms or architectures include but are not limited to local processors or computing devices remote processors or servers connected to data sources over a network or networks wirelessly connected computing devices etc. As an example is a block diagram of a typical computer system that may be used to implement some embodiments of the present invention. In one embodiment computer system typically includes a monitor computer a keyboard a user input device computer interfaces and the like.

In one embodiment user input device is typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote drawing tablet voice command system eye tracking system and the like. User input device typically allows a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like.

Embodiments of computer interfaces typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit FireWire interface USB interface and the like. For example computer interfaces may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments computer interfaces may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer may be a software program such as soft DSL or the like.

In various embodiments computer typically includes familiar computer components such as a processor and memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM disk drives and system bus interconnecting the above components. In one embodiment computer includes one or more Xeon microprocessors from Intel. Further in one embodiment computer typically includes a UNIX based operating system.

RAM and disk drive are examples of tangible media configured to store data such as embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMS DVDs and bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMS battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like.

In some embodiments computer system may also include software that enables communications over a network such as the HTTP TCP IP RTP RTSP protocols and the like. In alternative embodiments of the present invention other communications software and transfer protocols may also be used for example IPX UDP or the like.

The processes and systems described herein not only increase the accuracy and utility of certain applications e.g. search content retrieval but also enable the provision of value enhancing services that would not be possible or could not be delivered in a satisfactory manner without the inventive methods and system. Such applications include but are not limited to 

Further details of certain of the above described applications of the present invention as well as additional description of a social music discovery network in which such applications may be utilized are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 511 684 entitled System Apparatus and Method for Discovery of Music Within a Social Network filed Aug. 28 2006 the contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

In accordance with the present invention there have been described a system apparatus and methods for processing metadata used to characterize content such as images videos music books etc. The inventive system and processing methods can be used to correct or otherwise reduce errors or ambiguities in the metadata and as a result provide improvements to existing services as well as new services and applications. In some embodiments the present invention includes using a set of rules heuristics or algorithms to determine which of a plurality of strings of data found in metadata are intended to characterize the same real content or item. In some embodiments the inventive method may then use popularity metrics obtained from social networking application s to determine which of the available spellings is the best correct or preferred form of the metadata.

The present invention provides many benefits or advantages over present approaches to correcting or resolving ambiguities in metadata used to characterize content. These include but are not limited to 

It should be understood that certain elements of the present invention as described above can be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and software

Any of the software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described in detail and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not intended to be restrictive of the broad invention and that this invention is not to be limited to the specific arrangements and constructions shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those with ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein the use of a an or the is intended to mean at least one unless specifically indicated to the contrary.

