---

title: Integrated thin film explosive micro-detonator
abstract: A method of making a thin film explosive detonator includes forming a substrate layer; depositing a metal layer in situ on the substrate layer; and reacting the metal layer to form a primary explosive layer. The method and apparatus formed thereby integrates fabrication of a micro-detonator in a monolithic MEMS structure using “in-situ” production of the explosive material within the apparatus, in sizes with linear dimensions below about 1 mm. The method is applicable to high-volume low-cost manufacturing of MEMS safety-and-arming devices. The apparatus can be initiated either electrically or mechanically at either a single point or multiple points, using energies of less than about 1 mJ.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07739953&OS=07739953&RS=07739953
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07739953
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
The present Application is a Divisional Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 362 596 filed on Feb. 24 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 322 294 B1 which is a Divisional Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 729 266 filed on Dec. 3 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 597 046 B1.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefor.

The invention relates in general to explosive and ignition trains for safety and arming devices and in particular to explosive and ignition trains for use with microelectromechanical systems MEMS safety and arming devices.

MEMS safety and arming devices currently being conceived and developed require detonating sources of a size such that conventional detonator fabrication techniques cannot be practically and economically employed. The detonating sources for state of the art MEMS safety and arming devices preferentially employ a maximum size of one cubic millimeter mm . By comparison the smallest mechanical detonator ever to enter widespread production has a total volume of nearly 34 cubic mm with a maximum dimension of 3.5 mm. The present invention utilizing high density primary explosives typically contains less than 10 mg of energetic material. In addition the present invention represents the smallest practical size of a self contained device which could possibly initiate a secondary explosive a short distance away yet be fabricated and housed within a MEMS device.

The problem of low energy energetic devices of about one cubic mm in size is a generic one. Energetic devices of this size are required for the vast majority of MEMS safety and arming devices that are contemplated for use in submunitions and other low cost high volume applications that require a detonating output stimulus. While substantial attentions have been directed towards the fabrication of MEMS sensors mechanical actuators and mechanisms in recent years little or no effort has been directed towards the exploration of the energetics technologies to produce and control a detonation in such systems.

On the other hand for systems in which relatively large electrical energies are available interrupted electrical slapper detonator systems have been shown to be feasible initiators. The small bridge and flyer sizes needed to directly initiate explosives such as HNS IV and the ever decreasing sizes of the requisite capacitors and switches allow the slapper to be fabricated within a MEMS device relatively easily. In addition the acceptor explosive remains in the macro world and can be fabricated using well known explosive powder pressing techniques. MEMS units can then simply provide mechanical interruption between the flyer plate and acceptor explosive pellet or in the most general case an in line explosive train whose arming energies are properly controlled in accordance with Mil Std 1316D can also be utilized. Such electrically driven slapper devices while sufficiently small to be fabricated within a MEMS device require high electrical power and moderate electrical energies. Such slapper devices are relatively complex and expensive to fabricate making them inappropriate for low energy low cost high volume MEMS applications or MEMS applications where little or no onboard electrical energy is available.

The present invention provides a method for making useful detonating and non detonating explosive and ignition trains for incorporation into MEMS safety and arming devices. An important characteristic of the inventive explosive device is that it is capable of being initiated by a relatively low energy mechanical or electrical stimulus. In addition the methods of fabrication are compatible with MEMS materials and manufacturing processes. Such devices as the present invention may be fabricated in sizes with linear dimensions between about 0.1 mm and about 1 mm.

The present invention makes use of a thin layer of explosive to drive a thin flyer plate. The flyer plate is either deposited on top of the explosive layer or is formed by the explosive layer substrate. The explosive layer itself may be produced by a number of means.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention integrates fabrication of a micro detonator in a monolithic MEMS structure using in situ production of the explosive material within the device in sizes with linear dimensions below about 1 mm. The invention is applicable to high volume low cost manufacturing of MEMS safety and arming devices. The inventive device can be initiated either electrically or mechanically at either a single point or multiple points using energies of less than about 1 mJ.

The present invention reduces the use of toxic primary explosive materials their starting materials and detonation products typically heavy metal salts by nearly two orders of magnitude over currently employed macro sized explosive trains. The invention thereby confers significant environmental advantages and assists in fulfilling Executive Order 12856 which mandates significant reductions in the use of environmentally toxic energetic materials. Toxic waste generation is concommitantly reduced.

The present invention removes the necessity for the synthesis handling loading transportation and storage of bulk quantities of sensitive primary explosive materials since only the extremely small quantities of explosive needed to fulfill the explosive function are formed directly within the MEMS device. Such small quantitites of explosive represent miniscule hazards in comparison to the macroscopic detonation systems currently employed. Loading handling transportation and storage safety are thus significantly enhanced.

In an organic flyer plate is deposited on top of the explosive layer . shows an alternative method for forming a flyer plate. In the apparatus of is modified by etching a hole or barrel on the back side of substrate . The unreacted metal substrate then functions as a flyer plate driven by the explosive layer through the barrel .

Although not shown in for the sake of simplicity the fixed element is mechanically blocked by a solid portion of the slider element when in the safe position. Alternatively the solid portion of the slider element may be designed to contain an energy trap which serves to partially absorb and dissipate energies produced by the fixed explosive element while in the safe condition. Initiation and growth to detonation requires that the fixed and mobile elements are in alignment in order to achieve sufficient overall reaction run length to drive the flyer plate to requisite velocity to initiate the acceptor explosive . Again though not shown for the sake of simplicity all exposed explosive elements are sealed or encapsulated by a thin passivation layer after they have been fabricated for protection robustness and mechanical integrity.

The combined amount of primary explosive and primary explosive is preferably no more than about 10 milligrams. Given the maximum heat of explosion available from primary explosive materials as 2 4 kJ gm a maximum of 20 J to 40 J of thermochemical energy is available from the device. Much of this energy would not be available to for example accelerate a flyer plate. However provided that requisite flyer velocities are achieved approx. 2.5 km sec for prompt initiation flyer kinetic energies less than 100 mJ are adequate to initiate explosives such as HNS IV 250 spot size . In the case that flyer velocities on the order of 2.5 km sec cannot be achieved it is possible to some extent to compensate by using a flyer plate which is thicker or which has an optimal shock impedance and geometry for initiation of the acceptor explosive .

The key to achieving initiation is choosing a combination of flyer mass and velocity which makes the most efficient use of the available explosive driver energy and satisfies the short pulse shock initiation criteria for the acceptor explosive chosen. Flyer velocities achieved with thin layer explosive systems may be less than those of typical electrical slapper detonators. Therefore thicker more massive flyers may be needed to achieve reliable initiation. The combined size of the mobile slider element and the fixed initiator element is preferably no greater than about one cubic millimeter.

Mobile slider element is movable between an unarmed position that is remote from the fixed initiator element and the acceptor explosive and an armed position that is adjacent the fixed initiator element and the acceptor explosive . show the mobile slider element in the armed position. Mobile slider element moves on the y axis shown in .

Mobile slider element comprises a base layer for example silicon an unreacted metal substrate layer and a generally wedge shaped primary explosive layer . The base layer includes a barrel formed therein. An open end of the barrel is adjacent the acceptor explosive when the mobile slider element is in the armed position as in . A narrow end of the generally wedge shaped primary explosive layer of the mobile slider element is adjacent an end of the primary explosive layer of the fixed initiator element when the mobile slider element is in the armed position as in .

A combined amount of primary explosive in the mobile slider element and the fixed initiator element is preferably no greater than about ten milligrams. A combined size of the mobile slider element and the fixed initiator element is preferably no greater than about one cubic millimeter. Initiation of the fixed initiator element at a single point shown on is expanded by the wedge shaped thin explosive layer along the x axis to form a curved line generator. As the initiation sweeps across the underside of the flyer plate unreacted substrate layer the unreacted substrate layer is accelerated upward along the z axis starting at the left and moving towards the right in such a way that the flyer motion is ultimately planar as it moves down the barrel of the mobile slider element and strikes the acceptor explosive .

The primary explosive layer has a wedge shaped portion and a rectangular shaped portion . A dense plurality of through holes are formed in the base layer adjacent the rectangular shaped portion of the primary explosive layer . is an enlarged section view of a through hole . Each through hole includes a primary explosive layer on its interior surface. The primary explosive layers on the interior of the through holes are formed by the method described above that is a metal substrate of an explosive cation is deposited in situ on the through hole base layer. The metal substrate is then reacted with material s in the gas or liquid phase to form the primary explosive layer .

An organic flyer plate typically composed of parylene polyimide or other suitable polymer is disposed on a side of the base layer opposite the primary explosive layer . Organic flyer plate covers the through holes formed in the base layer . An amount of primary explosive is no greater than about ten milligrams. A size of the detonator is no greater than about one cubic millimeter. The organic flyer plate is launched using the primary explosives which are formed in situ on the inner surfaces of the through holes in the base layer . A similar line generator plane wave generator to that in allows the launch of a substantially flat flyer plate. In this case it is expected that the drive impulse imparted to the flyer plate would be of lower pressure and longer duration than in due to the physics of channel effect propagation. Therefore a thicker flyer plate may be necessary and a longer acceleration distance may also be required. The flyer plate may alternatively utilize metals ceramics or a combination of organics metals and ceramics in order to remain intact after launch and to subsequently effect optimal shock energy transfer to an acceptor explosive not shown in . 

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

