---

title: System, method and computer program product for processing payments
abstract: A payment processor for providing a payment service includes a transaction processor to process a transaction request. An application programming interface links a merchant to the transaction processor based on an identifier. A merchant center, located between a gateway and a point of sale device of the merchant, queries a database for information associated with a buyer and the merchant based on information received from the point of sale device, to generate the transaction request based from merchant transaction data received from the point of sale device and the information associated with the buyer and the merchant received from the database, and to communicate the transaction request to the transaction processor. The transaction processor also communicates information associated with the transaction request with the merchant based on the identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204825&OS=08204825&RS=08204825
owner: American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
number: 08204825
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071002
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 949 928 filed Jul. 16 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to alternative payment systems and more particularly to a system method and computer program product for providing registration integration payment processing and data capture.

The primary way consumers pay for items online is with the use of financial transaction instruments e.g. credit or debit cards or plastic where a user enters card and shipping information after having selected one or more items. Alternative payment systems have been developed to provide alternative means of transaction processing both for the buyer and the merchant. Examples include payment services such as Google Checkout Bill Me Later and eBay s PayPal.

One common aspect of many alternative payment systems is the registry function which requires customers to preload information such as personal information and transaction account information into registry databases. Consumers opt in and provide these systems with their personal information as well as transaction account information.

The payment form accepted by various alternative payment systems may differ however. For example some allow the buyer to pay with a credit or debit card versus paying with a checking account.

From the buyer s perspective one advantage of alternative payment systems is that only one set of buyer credentials is necessary to use multiple commerce sites. If for example a buyer s credit card expires or needs to be reissued because of fraud or some other reason with alternative payment systems the buyer is not required to go to all of the commerce sites with which the buyer transacts and change any saved card info. Instead at worst the buyer need only make one change.

On the merchant side conventional alternative payment systems require a merchant to create new processes and technology each time a new payment form is added to a merchant s infrastructure. This involves building entirely new linkages to accommodate the new payment solutions. Reconfiguring such an infrastructure can be costly and therefore not practical for some businesses.

Notwithstanding the benefits provided by existing alternative payment systems there is a need for a payment solution which maintains customer privacy provides fast secure and convenient payment functionality while reducing the integration requirements for merchants. There also is a need to maintain buyer privacy while collecting aggregate data about purchases made through such payment solutions and providing consumer approved services.

Given the foregoing what is needed is a system method and computer program product for processing payments.

The present invention meets the above identified needs by providing a system method and computer program product for processing payments. In one embodiment a system for providing a payment service includes a transaction processor configured to process a transaction request. The system further includes an application programming interface operable to link a merchant to the transaction processor based on an identifier. Also included in the system is a merchant center located between a gateway and a point of sale device of the merchant configured to query a database for information associated with a buyer and the merchant based on information received from the point of sale device to generate the transaction request based from merchant transaction data received from the point of sale device and the information associated with the buyer and the merchant received from the database and to communicate the transaction request to the transaction processor. The transaction processor is further configured to communicate information associated with the transaction request with the merchant based on the identifier.

Further features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention which is directed to a system method and computer program product for processing payments is now described in more detail herein in terms of the above exemplary credit or debit card and banking payment processing system. This is for convenience only and is not intended to limit the application of the present invention. In fact after reading the following description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the following invention in alternative embodiments involving different types of payment methods e.g. electronic checking money order wire transfer electronic cash etc. .

The terms buyer user end user consumer customer participant and or the plural form of these terms may be used interchangeably to refer to those persons or entities capable of accessing using being affected by and or benefiting from the tool that the present invention provides for processing payments.

Furthermore the terms service establishment SE business merchant seller and or the plural form of these terms may be used interchangeably and shall mean any person entity distributor system software and or hardware that is a provider broker and or any other entity in the distribution chain of goods or services. For example a merchant may be a grocery store a retail store a travel agency a service provider an online merchant or the like.

A transaction account as used herein refers to an account associated with an open account or a closed account system. The transaction account may exist in a physical or non physical embodiment. For example a transaction account may be distributed in non physical embodiments such as an account number frequent flyer account telephone calling account or the like. Furthermore a physical embodiment of a transaction account may be distributed as a financial instrument.

A financial transaction instrument may be traditional plastic transaction cards titanium containing or other metal containing transaction cards clear and or translucent transaction cards foldable or otherwise unconventionally sized transaction cards radio frequency enabled transaction cards or other types of transaction cards such as credit charge debit pre paid or stored value cards or any other like financial transaction instrument. A financial transaction instrument may also have electronic functionality provided by a network of electronic circuitry that is printed or otherwise incorporated onto or within the transaction instrument and typically referred to as a smart card or be a fob having a transponder and an RFID reader.

The registration component A of system includes a buyer interface such as a home computer a mobile phone or other device connected to a network such as an e commerce network on the Internet. Prior to completing a transaction a buyer registers with the provider of the system by entering registration information as depicted in block . This process can take place for example on a merchant s website just before the buyer checks out. Alternatively the buyer can preregister directly with the provider. Block represents an exemplary buyer registration process for registering buyers and merchants with either an alternate payment solution APS and or checkout CO website provider to execute transactions with merchants. This registration information is stored in a database referred to as data warehouse . Alternatively as described below with respect registration information may be stored in a separate database not shown .

Before being provided access to system a merchant must be registered. Particularly a merchant registers with the provider of the APS or CO as shown in block .

A merchant that is not registered with a provider or does not have a merchant acquiring account with a transaction processor provides information such as federal tax identifier merchant name address and the like through an online merchant sign up engine . An example of a sign up registration process is American Express s Want to Honor WTH registration processing system. A merchant can also apply for additional transaction plans i.e. banking options credit card issuers and the like through the online merchant sign up engine .

Once registered with a transaction processor such as a credit or debit card company bank or other merchant financial transaction instrument acquirer e.g. a credit or debit card company the merchant is provided with a virtual point of sale POS terminal and a merchant and terminal ID MID . When transacting the merchant provides the alternative payment system provider with its MID information which in turn is received and validated by a MID validation engine .

The integration component B of system takes the virtual POS and integrates it into the processing components of a merchant s website. This can be implemented by installing application programming interfaces APIs into the merchant s website infrastructure. These APIs allow the relevant financial transaction instrument information of the buyer and transaction information from the merchant e.g. from the merchant s point of sale device to be routed to the transaction processor via a merchant center and gateway without the merchant obtaining access during a transaction to the buyer s information such as personal or financial transaction account information.

More particularly after merchant registers integration engine installs the APIs to provide links also referred to sometimes as feeds to one or more transaction processors e.g. acquirer systems . Each link supplies the information necessary to supply a transaction processor with a full set of transaction information necessary to complete a transaction.

Application engine provides online application forms to be filled out by merchants to integrate them with new transaction payment services. Other types of information collecting methods can be used. For example industry wide standard data files can be imported into forms e.g. using Extensible Markup Language or XML or downloaded or uploaded as the case may be directly into data warehouse . In either case the merchant registration data is stored in data warehouse which is a secure database inaccessible from the transaction processor . As shown in data warehouse is also in communication with an aggregator . Aggregator may be a third party which submits transactions for payment to a transaction processor on behalf of other merchants who may or may not have direct relationships with merchant acquirers on the network.

The gateway component C is a front end software application that enables financial data to be routed to the respective transaction processors. More particularly gateway is a server based infrastructure containing software which inserts the buyer and seller details into a payment processing network s authorization infrastructure such as credit debit or bank acquirer transaction processor s .

As the new transaction processors are added to system additional connections are added to system to connect the transaction processors to gateway . This is accomplished by configuring the software of the gateway to handle the data structures of the new transaction processor and by adding additional links sometimes referred to as pipes using conventional leased telecommunications lines or internet based telecommunication protocols.

Once the merchant has registered and been integrated into system a buyer can then shop at a merchant website through its interface . This is accomplished for example by connecting to the merchant s website and logging in with a login and password if pre registered. If not pre registered the buyer may shop and proceed to registration when ready to complete the transaction. It should be understood that other authentication techniques may be utilized instead of a login and password such as smartcard biometric RFID or other form of authentication device or method. Once authenticated the buyer is transferred to merchant s website which has been enabled to accept the payment solution described herein.

After shopping the buyer finalizes the transaction by selecting for example a checkout button not shown . The checkout page is hosted off of the merchant s website hosted by enabled engine . In other words when he buyer initiates a checkout process the buyer is then passed from the merchant s website to another secure website. Alternatively the checkout page can be hosted by the provider of system .

Upon submission of a transaction the merchant transmits an authorization request to the transaction processor via the enabled merchant engine . Logic within merchant center queries the data warehouse for buyer and merchant details and then generates the required authorization request and submission message for simplicity collectively called a transaction request for insertion into gateway . The details merchant center obtains from data warehouse include information associated with the buyer such as buyer transaction account information name address and the like and information associated with the merchant such as acquirer identifier and other information required by a particular transaction processor.

The gateway in turn submits the message to transaction processor . In response the transaction processor provides a response to the authorization request e.g. approval or decline to the merchant. The merchant is provided a reference number corresponding to a transaction so that it can track and further process the transaction but the merchant is not provided the buyer s transaction account information thereby keeping the buyer s financial transaction account information private during the transaction processing.

The particular codes that are exchanged between the enabled merchant engine and merchant center are messages used between conventional transaction processing systems and merchants. Other new forms of transaction processing messages may be developed and used in addition to or in place of the convention transaction messages since the payment solution described herein moves the servicing responsibility to the transaction processor . Similarly reconciliation may be made between transaction processor and the merchant without additional configuration by the merchant.

Data warehouse stores the purchase information i.e. line item data such as SKU data quantity the buyer s transaction account number shipping information and the like received from merchant center . In addition data warehouse may store buyer information such as profiles transaction account information ship to information and the like. Other information such as websites visited and the like may also be stored in data warehouse .

Data capture component D is an optional component which provides the ability for third parties or the provider of system itself to collect information about transactions and buyers. The data can be used to enhance the customer s search and shopping experience and other applications per the permission granted by for example a user opt in.

As explained above data capture component D may include an aggregator engine which can submit transactions for payment to a transaction processor on behalf of other merchants who may or may not have direct relationships with merchant acquirers on the network. Aggregator can also compile and distill the information it receives. Particularly aggregator engine allows a provider or third party to use transaction information for statistical or marketing purposes. Aggregator also can be configured to feed information to an advertising search engine which may further analyze the data to provide custom advertising or marketing.

As described above from the data warehouse the buyer s data is moved to the merchant center . Merchant center combines the merchant and buyer data to create a full transaction data set and in turn communicates the financial transaction data to a gateway . Thus the transaction is isolated from the merchant s website and is instead concatenated at the merchant center . Similarly the personal information of the buyer can be isolated from the data capture component .

As explained above gateway routes the transaction data to the appropriate transaction processor such as a bankcard processor or credit card e.g. American Express or AXP issuer. Since the merchant is not provided the buyer s transaction account information during a transaction the buyer s transaction account information is kept private.

Merchant registration is performed by an operator entering seller registration information through establishment i.e. seller interface . In one embodiment the seller registration process requires merchants to input additional information initially by using conventional service establishment or merchant identifier numbers to vet plastic accepting merchants and facilitate registration. By registering up front service establishments which are not registered to accept plastic can sign up for plastic acceptance through sign up channels such as American Expresses want to honor WTH or bankcard applications. As registration information is entered it is fed to registration engine which feeds the data to either plastic e.g. credit debit card acceptance engine or non plastic i.e. non credit card acceptance. If the merchant wishes to accept plastic then the service establishment is validated using service establishment or merchant identifier validation engine . Once the service establishment validation engine has completed validating the service establishment the service establishment s website is integrated using site integration engine . Once the service establishment is validated and its website integrated using application program interfaces APIs then the service establishment is an enabled seller as shown in block .

If the merchant does not accept plastic block then the service establishment can choose between various payment types to apply for using acceptance application engine . The transaction processor e.g. credit debit card or bankcard acquirer determines whether the service establishment can establish a transaction account. If the service establishment is not accepted by the transaction processor then the application is rejected as shown in block . If the service establishment is accepted then at block the service establishment is considered registered and the process continues at block as describe above.

Advantageously the above described registration processes maintain user privacy at a point of sale. The service establishment is not provided with the buyer or sellers personal profile data since that data is stored in data warehouse .

A payment solution engine integrates with the web front end of the enabled merchant website using payment solution tools and APIs . Payment solution tools and APIs also supply the software and links used to leverage gateway to route transactions to the merchants. By incorporating tools and APIs between the gateway and payment solution blocks respectively and merchant systems and websites blocks respectively the gateway is leveraged to route transactions to the merchants existing transaction processor rather than require the merchants to create new links. A registry engine feeds the payment solution engine buyer and merchant registration information. In addition as explained above data warehouse which may be one or more databases captures transaction details.

The present invention i.e. systems and processes and or any part s or function s thereof may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems. However the manipulations performed by the present invention were often referred to in terms such as logging in or filling out a form which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of the present invention. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing the operation of the present invention include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

In fact in one embodiment the invention is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. An example of a computer system is shown in .

The computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Various software embodiments are described in terms of this exemplary computer system. After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or architectures.

Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on the display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and signals . These computer program products provide software to computer system . The invention is directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the present invention. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system .

In an embodiment where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface . The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

In another embodiment the invention is implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In yet another embodiment the invention is implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

In addition it should be understood that the figures and screen shots illustrated in the attachments which highlight the functionality and advantages of the present invention are presented for example purposes only. The architecture of the present invention is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be utilized and navigated in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the foregoing Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way. It is also to be understood that the steps and processes recited in the claims need not be performed in the order presented.

