---

title: Managing display of user interfaces
abstract: Managing a display of a user interface. In one implementation, a first user interface and an option to change the first user interface to a second user interface may be displayed. A selection of the option to change the first user interface to the second user interface may be received. In response, the second user interface may be displayed. In addition, a count of the number of times the request to change the first user interface to the second user interface is received may be kept. If the count is equal to a predetermined number, an option to set the second user interface as the default user interface may be displayed. If the option to set the second user interface as the default user interface is selected, the second user interface may then be set as the default user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08225227&OS=08225227&RS=08225227
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08225227
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070119
---
Software that requires user interaction typically operates through a user interface UI which may include buttons menus dialog boxes scroll bars and the like. UI s are typically designed for the population at large. Consequently some UI s may be too basic for certain users having advanced knowledge. Further typically the default UI s cannot be set by the users.

Described herein are implementations of various technologies for managing a display of a user interface. In one implementation a first user interface and an option to change the first user interface to a second user interface may be displayed. A selection of the option to change the first user interface to the second user interface may be received. In response the second user interface may be displayed. In addition a count of the number of times the request to change the first user interface to the second user interface is received may be kept. If the count is equal to a predetermined number an option to set the second user interface as the default user interface may be displayed. If the option to set the second user interface as the default user interface is selected the second user interface may then be set as the default user interface.

In another implementation an option to select either a first user interface or a second user interface as a default user interface may be displayed. In addition an option to keep a count of the number of times a change to a user interface is requested may be displayed. The count may be used to change the default user interface. In one implementation an option to change the default user interface to the requested user interface may be displayed when the count is equal to a predetermined number.

The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all of the noted disadvantages. Further the summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary section is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In general one or more implementations of various technologies described herein are directed to providing a user with an option to change a user interface UI . In one implementation a count of the number of times a request to change the UI is tracked. After the count has reached a predetermined number the user may be given an option to change the default UI to the UI that has been requested a predetermined number of times. Various implementations of the manner in which the UI may be modified and tracked will be described in more detail in the following paragraphs.

Implementations of various technologies described herein may be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the various technologies described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The various technologies described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The various technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although only one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs a UI tracking program module program data and a database system . The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like. The UI tracking program module will be described in more detail with reference to in the paragraphs below.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be another personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node. Although the remote computer is illustrated as having only a memory storage device the remote computer may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing system . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN .

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a modem wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

At step a computing system may receive a request. The request may be for information options an action or the like. For example a user may request information such as help on a topic options such as the types of bullets and numbering available or an action such as adding a new user to the computing system .

At step the computing system may display a response to the request through a default UI. As such the UI may provide information and or options input fields and the like. For example the UI may provide help information on the requested topic options for bullets and numbering or input fields for entering new user information.

At step a determination is made as to whether a request to change the UI has been received e.g. whether a selection of the Advanced button has been received. If no request to change the UI is received then the default UI continues to be displayed to the user. However if a request to change the UI is received then the UI may be changed based on the request step . For example in response to the Advanced button being selected by the user an Advanced Add New User UI may be displayed to the user as illustrated in . In addition to the original input fields the Advanced Add New User UI may provide the user with advanced input fields . The Advanced Add New User UI may also display a Basic button to provide the user with an option to change the UI back to the Add New User UI . In this manner if the Basic button is selected the UI may revert back to the Add New User UI which displays the original information shown in .

At step the UI tracking program module may keep a count of the number of times a request to change the UI is received. For example the UI tracking program module may keep a count of the number of times the Advanced button on the Add New User UI is selected.

At step the UI tracking program module may compare the count to a predetermined number e.g. five. If the count is less than the pre determined number processing may return to step and leave the default UI unchanged.

However if the count is equal to the predetermined number then the UI tracking program module may provide the user with an option to change the default UI to the requested UI step . For example if the Advanced button on the Add New User UI has been selected a predetermined number of times to change to the Advanced Add New User UI the UI tracking program module may provide the user with an option to change the default UI to the Advanced Add New User UI from the Add New User UI .

If the response to the option to change the default UI is in the negative i.e. the user does not want to change the default UI then the UI tracking program module may reset the counter back to zero step .

If the response to the option to change the default UI is in the affirmative i.e. the user wants to change the default UI then the UI tracking program module may set the requested UI as the default UI step . For example if the response to the option to change the default UI to the Advanced Add New User UI is in the affirmative the UI tracking program module may set the Advanced Add New User UI as the default UI. As a result of this change if the computing system receives a request at step to add a new user then at step the Advanced Add New User UI of may be displayed rather than the Add New User UI of .

At step the UI tracking program module may reset the counter to zero. As noted above the new default UI may have a button to provide the user with the option to change to a different UI. After receiving a request to change to a different UI a predetermined number of times the UI tracking program module may provide the user with an option to change the default UI to the requested UI. For example after changing the default UI to the Advanced Add New User UI if the Basic button is selected a predetermined number of times the UI tracking program module may provide the user with an option to change the default UI back to the Add New User UI .

As described above the UI tracking program module may be configured to track requests for changes to the UI s on an individual UI level. As such the UI tracking program module may have a separate count of requests to change the UI for each UI associated with a piece of software. In this manner the default UI for each piece of software may be individually managed.

In one implementation the UI tracking program module may be configured to track requests to use certain functions or tools. In this implementation at step the UI tracking program module may query the user as to whether the repeatedly selected function or tool should be added to the default toolbar.

In another implementation the computing system may have all UI s classified for example as basic or advanced UI s. As such the UI tracking program module may be configured to track requests for changes to the UI s at a system wide level such that as a class of UI s are frequently selected in any area the user may be asked if the computing system default UI s should be changed to that class of UI s. In this manner classes of default UI s may be managed as a group.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

