---

title: Antibacterial compounds and methods of using same
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide novel antibacterials that target penicillin-binding proteins or other important cellular targets. Methods for inhibiting growth (reproduction, etc.) of bacteria using compounds described herein are also provided. Various embodiments exhibit activity against gram positive bacteria, such as certain strains of and 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09045442&OS=09045442&RS=09045442
owner: University of Notre Dame du Lac
number: 09045442
owner_city: Notre Dame
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. GM061629 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national stage entry of PCT Application No. PCT US07 088602 filed Dec. 21 2007 entitled ANTIBACTERIAL COMPOUNDS AND METHODS OF USING SAME and claims priority to co pending PCT Application No. PCT US07 079672 filed Sep. 27 2007 entitled ANTIBACTERIAL COMPOUNDS AND METHODS OF USING SAME the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of chemistry and biochemistry and more specifically to antibacterial compounds and methods of using antibacterial compounds.

Penicillin binding proteins PBPs are a group of proteins characterized by their affinity for and binding of penicillin. PBPs do not just bind penicillin but rather bind all beta lactam antibiotics which are a family of antibiotics sharing a four membered lactam ring.

There are a large number of PBPs usually several in each organism and they are found mostly as membrane bound proteins but a few are known to be non membrane associated. Different PBPs occur in different numbers per cell and have varied affinities for different kinds of lactam antibiotics. PBPs are involved in the final stages of the synthesis of peptidoglycan which is the major component of bacterial cell walls. Bacterial cell wall synthesis is essential to growth cell division thus reproduction and maintenance of the cellular structure in bacteria. Inhibition of PBPs leads to irregularities in bacterial cell wall structure such as elongation lesions loss of selective permeability and eventual cell death and lysis. Bacterial cell wall synthesis and in particular PBPs provides a good target for drugs of selective toxicity because the metabolic pathways and enzymes are unique to bacteria.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments in accordance with the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments of the present invention however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of embodiments of the present invention.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present invention are synonymous.

As used herein the term alkenyl refers to both straight and branched chain moieties containing one or more C C .

As used herein the term alkynyl refers to both straight and branched chain moieties containing one or more C C .

As used herein the term cycloalkyl refers to a cyclic alkyl moiety. Unless otherwise stated cycloalkyl moieties include between 3 and 8 carbon atoms.

As used herein the term cycloalkenyl refers to a cyclic alkenyl moiety. Unless otherwise stated cycloalkenyl moieties include between 3 and 8 carbon atoms and one or more C C within the cyclic ring.

As used herein the term amino refers to NH NHR or NR. Unless otherwise stated R can be alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl het or aryl.

As used herein the term phosphate refers to but is not limited to O P OH O P OH ONa O P ONa OH O P ONa O P OH OK O P OK OH O P OK or a free acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.

As used herein the term het refers to a mono or bi cyclic ring system containing one or more heteroatom selected from O S and N. Each mono cyclic ring may be aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated. A bi cyclic ring system may include a mono cyclic ring containing one or more heteroatom fused with a cycloalkyl or aryl group. A bi cyclic ring system may also include a mono cyclic ring containing one or more heteroatom fused with another het mono cyclic ring system.

Examples of het include but are not limited to pyridine thiophene furan pyrazoline pyrrole pyrazoline pyrimidine 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 2 pyrimidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 3 pyrazinyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 4 oxo 2 imidazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 1 3 4 oxadiazole 4 pyridazinyl 3 pyrazinyl 4 oxo 2 imidazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 5 pyrazolyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 4 oxo 2 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 1 2 3 oxathiazole 1 2 3 oxadiazole 1 2 5 oxadiazole 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 isothiazole 4 isothiazole 5 isothiazole 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 3 isopyrrolyl 4 isopyrrolyl 5 isopyrrolyl 1 2 3 oxathiazole 1 oxide 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 5 oxo 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 3 oxo 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 oxo 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 2 4 triazol 3 yl 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl 5 oxazolyl 3 isothiazolyl 4 isothiazolyl 5 isothiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazole 4 oxo 2 thiazolinyl 5 methyl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiazoledione 1 2 3 4 thiatriazole 1 2 4 dithiazolone phthalimide quinolinyl morpholinyl benzoxazoyl diazinyl triazinyl quinolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl hydantoinyl oxathiolanyl dioxolanyl imidazolidinyl and azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a mono or bicyclic het in which one or more cyclic ring is aromatic.

As used herein the term substituted heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl moiety substituted with one or more functional groups selected from halogen alkyl hydroxyl amino alkoxy cyano and nitro.

As used herein the term substituted alkyl refers to an alkyl moiety including 1 4 substituents selected from halogen het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl amino cyano nitro OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q C NOQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ C S NQQ N Q C S NQQ C O NQQ C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN S NQC O Q NQC O NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ and SNQQ. Each of the het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from halogen and Q.

As used herein the term substituted aryl refers to an aryl moiety having 1 3 substituents selected from halogen het alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl cyano nitro OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q C NOQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q NQC O Q N Q C S NQQ N Q C S Q NQC O NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ and SNQQ. The het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl alkenyl alkynyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents selected from halogen and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl het cycloalkenyl and aryl. The het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from halo and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from H halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl and het. The alkyl aryl cycloalkyl and het being optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents independently selected from halogen nitro cyano S 0 and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from Q OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q SC O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN O S NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S Q NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ NO and SNQQ.

Each Q14 is independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl or naphthyl each optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from F Cl Br I OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ NO C O NQQ C S NQQ CN NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S O NQQ and NQS O Q. The alkyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl being further optionally substituted with O or S.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl phenyl or naphthyl each optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from F Cl Br I OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q SC O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ NO and SNQQ. The alkyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl being further optionally substituted with O or S.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl and cycloalkyl. The alkyl and cycloalkyl optionally including 1 3 halogens.

Embodiments of the present invention provide novel antibacterials. In an embodiment antibacterials are provided that target penicillin binding proteins PBPs . In other embodiments the antibacterials provided herein may inhibit other biochemical processes of bacteria.

In embodiments the antibacterials of this invention may have useful activity against a variety of organisms. The in vitro activity of compounds of this invention may be assessed by standard testing procedures such as the determination of minimum inhibitory concentration MIC by agar dilution.

In embodiments the antibacterials described herein may be useful for sterilization sanitation antisepsis and disinfection. In an embodiment the antibacterials may be applied to a location in need of sterilization sanitation antisepsis or disinfection by methods known to those skilled in the art. For instance the antibacterials may be incorporated into a cleaning solution that is applied such as by spraying or pouring to an item in need of sterilization sanitation antisepsis or disinfection. The antibacterials may be used alone or in combination. In an embodiment the antibacterials may be applied in varying concentrations depending upon the bacterial susceptibility to the antibacterials being applied and the desired level of sterilization sanitation antisepsis or disinfection.

In an embodiment the antibacterial compounds may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition. In embodiments certain antibacterials described herein may be useful for treating microbial infections in mammals such as by administering an effective amount of the antibacterial compound to the mammal.

Embodiments of the present invention encompass any racemic optically active polymorphic tautomeric or stereoisomeric form or mixture thereof of a compound of the invention which possesses the useful properties described herein.

In cases where compounds are sufficiently basic or acidic to form stable nontoxic acid or base salts use of the compounds as pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be appropriate. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts within the scope of embodiments of the present invention include organic acid addition salts formed with acids which form a physiological acceptable anion and inorganic salts.

Pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with embodiments of the invention may be prepared by combining the disclosed compounds with a solid or liquid pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally with pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants and excipients employing standard and conventional techniques. Solid form compositions include powders tablets dispersible granules capsules cachets and suppositories. A solid carrier may be at least one substance which may also function as a diluent flavoring agent solubilizer lubricant suspending agent binder tablet disintegrating agent and encapsulating agent. Inert solid carriers include magnesium carbonate magnesium stearate talc sugar lactose pectin dextrin starch gelatin cellulosic materials low melting wax cocoa butter and the like. Liquid form compositions include solutions suspensions and emulsions. For example there may be provided solutions of the compounds of this invention dissolved in water and water propylene glycol systems optionally containing suitable conventional coloring agents flavoring agents stabilizers and thickening agents.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition may be provided employing conventional techniques in unit dosage form containing effective or appropriate amounts of one or more active component. In embodiments the quantity of active component compound in a pharmaceutical composition and unit dosage form thereof may be varied or adjusted widely depending upon the particular application the potency of the particular compound and the desired concentration. In an embodiment the quantity of active component may range from 0.5 to 90 by weight of the composition.

In embodiments in therapeutic use for treating or combating bacterial infections in animals the compounds or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered orally parenterally and or topically at a dosage to obtain and maintain a concentration that is an amount or blood level of active component in the animal undergoing treatment which is antibacterially effective. In an embodiment such an antibacterially effective amount of dosage of active component may be in the range of about 0.1 to about 100 mg kg more preferably about 3.0 to about 50 mg kg of body weight day. It is to be understood that the dosages may vary depending upon the requirements of the patient the severity of the bacterial infection being treated and the particular compound being used. Also it is to be understood that the initial dosage administered may be increased beyond the above upper level in order to rapidly achieve the desired blood level or the initial dosage may be smaller than the optimum and the daily dosage may be progressively increased during the course of treatment depending on the particular situation. If desired the daily dose may also be divided into multiple doses for administration e.g. 2 4 four times per day.

In an embodiment an initial antibacterial compound was provided and tested. Such compound is identified below as compound A. Compound A below is an inhibitor of gram positive bacteria. Compound A also shows activity against some strains of .

Compound A 5 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole was synthesized according to following basic protocol. Z 4 4 Trifluoromethyl phenoxy O 4 4 fluorobenzoyl benzamidoxime 150 mg 0.358 mmol was placed in THF 1.5 mL under an atmosphere of nitrogen. Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M 385 L was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 3 to give a white solid material 132 mg 92 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.14 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.16 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.23 7.27 2H m 7.63 2H d J 8.4 Hz 8.18 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.23 2H dd J 9.0 5.4 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 116.7 CH d J 15.2 Hz 119.0 CH 119.8 CH 120.8 C d J 4.2 Hz 122.9 123.2 125.4 126.0 C q J 32.5 Hz 127.6 CH q J 3.8 Hz 129.7 CH 130.8 CH d J 9.0 Hz 158.8 159.6 165.7 C d J 254.1 Hz 168.5 175.1. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.87 3F s 104.90 105.00 1F m . MS FAB 400 MH . HRMS for CH FNO MH calculated 400.0835 found 400.0811.

Compound A was broken down into smaller structural components and each fraction tested to understand the impact of certain components on the antibacterial properties of the compounds. Based on the understanding of compound A the compounds compounds 1 and 2 shown below were tested further. Compounds 1 and 2 exhibit good activity as measured by minimum inhibitory concentration testing against several strains of and as shown in . A minimum inhibitory concentration is the lowest concentration of an antimicrobial that will inhibit the visible growth of a microorganism after overnight incubation.

In embodiments the exemplary compounds described above may be synthesized according to the following general procedures. Both compound 1 and compound 2 follow the same synthesis up to the formation of hydroxyamidine. As illustrated in initial coupling of commercially available starting materials of 4 iodobenzonitrile with either phenol or 4 trifluoromethyl phenol gave compounds 3a or 3b using standard Ullmann conditions. The purified product was then reacted with hydroxylamine to form the hydroxyamidine compounds 4a or 4b in quantitative yield.

Trifluoromethyl hydroxyamidine compound 4a was coupled to 4 benzyloxybenzoylchloride using ethyldiisopropylamine to form the amidoxime intermediate compound 5 in 58 yield see and was ring closed to form the 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 6a with tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride. Standard deprotection of compound 6a with Pd C produced compound 1. Synthesis of compound 2 was achieved by following standard EDC coupling to compound 4b and commercially available 4 benzyloxybenzoic acid and then ring closing in a one pot reaction to give 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 6b . Deprotection of compound 6b using Pd C provided compound 2 in 31 yield. More specific details regarding the synthesis steps outlined are provided below.

4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy benzonitrile compound 3a To dried trifluoro p cresol 531 mg 3.27 mmol copper I iodide 83 mg 0.4 mmol cesium carbonate 1.42 g 4.36 mmol 4 iodobenzonitrile 500 mg 2.18 mmol and N N dimethylglycine hydrochloride 91 mg 0.65 mmol under nitrogen was added degassed 1 4 dioxane 10.0 mL . The whole mixture was heated at 90 C. for 140 hours. The cooled mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 50 mL and water 50 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The organic layers were combined and washed with brine 100 mL and dried with NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude liquid was placed on a silica gel column and purified CHCl Hex 1 8 1 4 and then was recrystallized with hot hexane to give the product as white crystals 286 mg 50 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.08 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.15 1H d J 8.8 Hz 7.66 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.67 1H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 107.4 118.7 119.1 CH 120.0 CH 122.9 125.1 127.0 1C q J 32.5 Hz 127.3 127.8 2CH q J 3.8 Hz 134.5 CH 158.2 160.4. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 62.05 3F s . MS FAB 264 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 264.0636 found 264.0621.

 Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxy benzamidine compound 4a In ethanol 10.0 mL was combined 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy benzonitrile 179 mg 0.68 mmol and hydroxylamine 167 L 2.72 mmol . The mixture was refluxed for 1 hour and then the reaction was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo to give the product quantitative yield which was taken to the next step without further purification. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 4.94 3H bs 7.04 7.08 4H m 7.60 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.64 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 118.6 CH 119.7 CH 125 1C q J 32.5 Hz 127.4 2CH q J 3.8 Hz 127.7 CH 127.9 CH 128.6 138.0 152.3 157.6. MS FAB 297 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 297.0851 found 297.0863.

 Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy O 4 4 benzyloxy benzoyl benzamidoxime compound 5 To crude Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxy benzamidine 343 mg 1.16 mmol was added methylene chloride 10.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 303 mg 2.32 . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and placed under nitrogen. Then 4 benzyloxybenzoyl chloride 429 mg 1.74 mmol in methylene chloride 5.5 mL was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 24 hours. Ethylacetate 25 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 25 mL and then brine 25 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The material was purified using column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 3 4 1 and to give the product as crystals 343 mg 58 .

5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 6a Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy O 4 4 benzyloxy benzoyl benzamidoxime 128 mg 254 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 6.0 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M 255 L was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. The product was purified by column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 4 and was crystallized from hexane to give a white crystalline material 106 mg 86 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.17 2H s 7.11 7.17 6H m 7.36 7.47 5H m 7.63 2H d J 8.4 Hz 8.17 4H t J 9.0 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 70.4 CH 115.6 CH 117.2 118.9 CH 119.8 CH 123.3 125.9 C q J 32.5 Hz 127.5 CH q J 4.1 Hz 127.7 CH 128.5 128.9 129.7 CH 130.3 CH 136.2 158.6 162.6 168.4 175.8. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.9 3F s . MS FAB 489 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 489.1426 found 489.1402.

4 3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl phenol compound 1 To 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 106 mg 216 mol was added 10 Pd C 7 mg 7 mol and the mixture was suspended in methanol 3.0 mL and THF 3.0 mL . The whole was stirred under Hat 55 C. for 24 hours. The solution was filtered through Celite and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and then purified by column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 6 1 4 to give the product as a white solid 37 mg 43 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.38 2H bs 6.99 2H d J 8.6 Hz 7.13 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.15 2H d J 8.6 Hz 7.63 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.13 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.18 2H d J 8.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 116.4 CH 116.9 119.0 CH 119.8 CH 123.0 125.3 126.0 C q J 32.5 Hz 127.5 CH q J 3.8 Hz 129.7 CH 130.6 158.7 159.6 160.1 168.3 175.9. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.9 3F s . MS FAB 399 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 399.0957 found 399.0928.

4 phenoxybenzonitrile compound 3b To phenol 1.23 g 13.10 mmol copper I iodide 333 mg 1.75 mmol cesium carbonate 5.69 g 17.47 mmol 4 iodobenzonitrile 2.00 g 8.73 mmol and N N dimethylglycine hydrochloride 366 mg 2.62 mmol under nitrogen was added degassed 1 4 dioxane 10.0 mL . The whole mixture was heated at 90 C. for 88 hours. The cooled mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 100 mL and water 100 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layers were combined and washed with brine 100 mL and dried with NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude material was purified by column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 12 1 8 to give the pure product as a white solid quantitative yield . H NMR 300 MHz CDCL ppm 7.00 2H d J 9.1 Hz 7.06 2H d J 7.6 Hz 7.23 1H t J 7.2Hz 7.41 2H t J 8.1 Hz 7.59 2H d J 9.1 Hz . C NMR 75 MHz CDCL ppm 105.9 118.0 CH 119.0 120.5 CH 125.3 CH 130.4 CH 134.2 CH 154.9 161.8. MS FAB 196 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 196.0762 found 196.0780.

 Z N hydroxy 4 phenoxybenzamidine compound 4b In ethanol 5.0 mL was combined 4 phenoxybenzonitrile 200 mg 1.02 mmol and hydroxylamine 250 L 4.09 mmol . The mixture was refluxed for 3 hours. The reaction was cooled and then concentrated in vacuo to give the product which was taken to the next step without further purification quantitative yield . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 4.87 2H bs 7.01 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.03 2H dd J 8.7 1.1 Hz 7.15 2H tt J 7.4 1.1 Hz 7.36 2H dd J 8.6 7.3 Hz 7.59 2H d J 9.0 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 118.6 CH 119.6 CH 124 127.3 127.6 CH 130.1 CH 152.5 156.6 159.3. MS FAB 229 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 229.0977 found 229.0977.

5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 6b To a solution of 4 benzyloxybenzoic acid 152 mg 665 mol and benzylhydroxy amidine 152 mg 665 mol in methylene chloride 10.0 mL was added EDC 135 mg 698 mol in methylene chloride 5.0 mL . The mixture was stirred for 5 hours. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 1.33 mL was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 28.5 hours. An additional 191 mg 996 mmol of EDC was added and the solution was stirred for 23 hours then an additional amount of tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 1.33 mL was added and the solution was stirred for 25 hours. The product was purified by column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 4 1 2 and was crystallized from ethylacetate hexane 1 1 to give a white crystalline material 75 mg 27 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.15 2H s 7.07 7.12 6H m 7.17 1H t J 7.4 Hz 7.34 7.46 7H m 8.12 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.15 2H d J 8.4 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 70.4 CH 115.5 CH 117.3 118.6 CH 119.9 CH 121.9 124.3 CH 127.7 CH 128.5 CH 128.9 CH 129.4 CH 130.2 CH 130.3 CH 136.3 156.4 160.2 162.5 168.5 175.6. MS FAB 421 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 421.1552 found 421.1540.

4 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl phenol compound 2 To 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 50 mg 120 mol was added 10 Pd C 1 mg 8 mol and the mixture was suspended in methanol 3.0 mL and THF 3.0 mL . The solution was stirred under Hat 55 C. for 24 hours. The solution was filtered through Celite and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and then purified by column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 6 1 4 to give the product as a white solid 12 mg 31 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.83 1H bs 6.98 2H d J 8.2 Hz 7.09 4H m 7.18 1H t J 7.6 Hz 8.12 2H t J 7.7 Hz 8.12 2H d J 6.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 116.3 CH 117.2 118.6 CH 119.9 CH 121.8 124.4 CH 129.5 CH 130.2 CH 130.6 CH 156.4 159.8 160.3 168.5 175.7. MS FAB 331 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 331.1083 found 331.1056.

 Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxybenzamidine compound 7 structure shown below In a one neck round bottom flask Z 4 4 Trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxybenzamidine 53 mg 0.18 mmol was placed under nitrogen and dissolved in methylene chloride 3.0 mL . N ethyldiisopropylamine 62 L 0.26 mmol was added and the solution was cooled to 0 C. Acetyl chloride 62 L 0.36 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for an additional 19 hours. Ethyl acetate was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 25 mL and then brine 25 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude solid was purified using silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 8 to 1 2 and recrystallized from ethyl ether to give the product as a white powder 41 mg 67 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.09 2H bs 7.08 4H dd J 8.8 2.59 Hz 7.61 2H d J 8.6 Hz 7.73 2H d J 8.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 20.2 CH 118.8 CH 119.8 CH 125.3 125.9 1C q J 32.7 Hz 127.2 127.4 2CH q J 3.9 Hz 128.9 CH 155.6 158.6 159.7 169.0. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.89 3F s . MS FAB 339 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 339.0957 found 339.0938.

3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 8 structure shown below Z 4 4 Trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxybenzamidine 79 mg 0.23 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 67 L 0.23 mmol was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 92 hours 40 minutes. The product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 12 to give a white solid 9.0 mg 12 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 2.66 3H s 7.11 7.14 4H m 7.62 2H d J 8.4 Hz 8.08 2H d J 9.0 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 12.61 CH 119.0 CH 119.7 CH 122.9 125.3 126.0 C q J 32.5 Hz 127.5 CH q J 3.8 Hz 129.6 CH 158.7 159.6 167.9 176.8. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.89 3F s . MS FAB 321 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 320.0773 found 320.0779.

 Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy O benzoylbenzamidoxime compound 9 structure shown below Z 4 4 Trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxy benzamidine 300 mg 1.01 mmol was added to methylene chloride 10.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 353 L 2.03 mmol . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and placed under nitrogen. Then benzoyl chloride 176 L 1.52 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 14 hours. Ethyl acetate 40 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 2 40 mL and then brine 40 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The solid residue was purified using column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 4 to 1 1.5 to give the product as white crystals 368 mg 91 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.30 2H bs 7.07 7.11 4H m 7.47 7.52 3H m 7.59 7.62 3H m 7.80 2H t J 9.0 Hz 8.10 2H t J 10.0 Hz C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 118.8 CH 119.8 CH 125.5 C q J 32.8 Hz 127.2 127.5 CH q J 3.6 Hz 128.6 128.8 CH 129.1 CH 129.7 CH 133.3 CH 138.2 156.7 158.7 159.7 164.2.

3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 5 phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 10 structure shown below Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy N O benzoyl hydroxybenzamidine 96 mg 240 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 10.0 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 69 L 240 mmol was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 15 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude solid was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 2 to 1 1 and was crystallized from hot hexane to give the product as a white solid 91 mg 100 yield. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.14 2H dd J 9.0 0.8 Hz 7.17 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.55 7.59 2H m 7.61 7.65 3H m 8.20 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.22 8.24 2H m . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 119.0 CH 119.8 CH 123.1 124.4 125.4 126.2 C q J 32.8 Hz 127.5 CH q J 3.8 Hz 128.4 CH 129.4 CH 129.8 CH 133.0 CH 158.8 159.6 168.5 176.0. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.9 3F s . MS FAB 382 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 383.1007 found 383.0982.

 Z 4 4 Trifluoromethyl phenoxy O 4 4 fluorobenzoyl benzamidoxime compound 11 structure shown below A solution of Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxy benzamidine 130 mg 0.38 mmol in methylene chloride 1.5 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 133 L 0.76 mol was cooled in an iced water bath under an atmosphere of nitrogen. A solution of 4 fluorobenzoyl chloride 60 L 0.51 mmol was added dropwise to the previous solution and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at iced water temperature. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 24 hours. Ethyl acetate 25 ml was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with aq. NaHCO 25 ml water 25 ml and then brine 25 ml . The organic layer was then dried over anhydrous MgSOand was concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The solid residue was purified using column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 3 to 4 1 to give the product as a white solid 172 mg 94 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.18 bs 7.07 7.11 4H m 7.16 2H t J 8.7 Hz 7.62 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.79 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.12 2H dd J 9.0 5.4 Hz . F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.89 3F s 105.03 105.13 1F m . MS FAB 419 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 419.1019 found 419.1031.

 Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy O 4 bromobenzoyl benzamidoxime compound 12 structure shown below Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxybenzamidine 200 mg 675 mmol was added to methylene chloride 5.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 238 L 1.35 mmol . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and placed under nitrogen. Then 4 bromobenzoyl chloride 151 mg 0.67 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 12 hours. Ethyl acetate 40 ml was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 40 ml and then brine 40 ml . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The solid residue was purified using column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 10 to 1 1 to give the product as white crystals 302 mg 93 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 7.05 2H bs 7.22 4H d J 8.8 Hz 7.76 4H t J 8.4 Hz 8.85 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.14 2H d J 8.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz DMSO d ppm 118.6 CH 119.4 CH 127.2 124.5 C q J 32.6 Hz 127.6 CH q J 3.3 Hz 127.8 128.6 128.9 129.2 CH 131.6 CH 131.7 CH 156.4 157.1 159.7 162.9. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 60.6 3F s . MS FAB 479 MH . HRMS for CHBrFNO MH calculated 479.0218 found 479.0211.

3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 5 4 bromophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 13 structure shown below Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy N 4 bromobenzoyl benzamidoxime 176.4 mg 368.1 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 10.0 was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 107 L 368 mmol was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 22 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The solid was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 2 to 1 1 and was crystallized from hot hexane to give a white crystalline material 164 96 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.13 7.17 4H m 7.63 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.70 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.07 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.17 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 119.0 CH 119.7 CH 122.8 123.3 125.3 126.0 C q J 32.5 Hz 127.5 CH q J 3.8 Hz 128.0 129.7 CH 158.8 159.5 168.6 175.1. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.9 3F s . MS FAB 461 MH . HRMS for CHBrFNO MH calculated 461.0112 found 461.0137.

 Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy O 4 nitrobenzoyl benzamidoxime compound 14 structure shown below In a one neck round bottom flask Z 4 4 Trifluoromethyl phenoxy N hydroxybenzamidine 826 mg 2.79 mmol was placed under nitrogen and dissolved in methylene chloride 15.0 mL . N ethyldiisopropylamine 980 L 5.57 mmol was added and the solution was cooled to 0 C. Then 4 nitrobenzoyl chloride 792 mg 4.18 mmol in methylene chloride 10 mL was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 24 hours. Then ethyl acetate 50 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 50 mL and then brine 50 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The material was purified using column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 3 to 4 1 and to give the product 1.20 g 97 as yellow crystals. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.18 2H bs 7.09 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.12 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.63 2H d J 8.6 Hz 7.79 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.28 2H d J 8.9 Hz 8.34 2H d J 9.0 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 118.9 CH 119.8 CH 124.0 CH 126.1 C q J 32.9 Hz 126.7 127.6 CH q J 3.8 Hz 129.1 CH 129.4 129.8 130.8 CH 135.2 150.8 157.2 159.0 162.4. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.9 3F s . MS FAB 446 MH . HRMS for CH FNO MH calculated 445.0886 found 445.0894.

3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 5 4 nitrophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 15 structure shown below Z 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy O 4 bromobenzoyl benzamidoxime 569 mg 1.27 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 30 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M 1.30 L was added dropwise the solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 6 and was crystallized from hot hexane to give a yellow solid 430 mg 79 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.15 2H dd J 9.1 0.7 Hz 7.18 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.65 2H dd J 9.1 0.7 Hz 8.20 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.43 4H s . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 119.2 CH 119.8 CH 122.3 124.6 CH 126.1 C q J 32.5 Hz 127.6 CH q J 3.8 Hz 129.4 CH 129.7 129.8 150.4 159.4 169.0 173.9. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.9 3F s . MS FAB 427 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 427.0780 found 427.0782.

4 3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl aniline compound 16 structure shown below Iron powder 132 mg 2.33 mmol water 210 L 11.8 mmol and 12 N HCl 10 L 0.11 mmol were added consecutively to a solution of the 3 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy phenyl 5 4 nitrophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 46 mg 0.11 mmol in ethanol 6.0 mL . The mixture was heated at 95 C for 1 hours. The mixture was filtered while still hot and then washed with additional ethanol 10 mL . The filtrates were combined and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude solid product was purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 8 to give the product 31 mg 72 as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 6.35 2H bs 6.99 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.13 2H d J 8.2 Hz 7.15 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.63 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.11 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.17 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 114.0 114.7 CH 118.9 CH 119.8 CH 123.5 125.4 125.8 C q J 32.5 Hz 127.5 CH q J 3.8 Hz 129.7 CH 130.3 CH 150.9 158.5 159.8 168.2 176.3. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 61.85 3F s . MS FAB 398 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 397.1038 found 397.1036.

 Z N hydroxybenzamidine compound 17 structure shown below A solution of ethanol 5.0 mL benzonitrile 203 mg 1.97 mmol and hydroxylamine 520 mg 7.87 mmol were refluxed for 1 hour. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo to give the a clear oil which was taken to the next step without further purification 268 mg 100 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 4.92 2H bs 7.38 7.44 3H m 7.62 7.65 2H m . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 126.1 CH 128.9 CH 130.2 CH 132.6 152.8. MS FAB 137 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 137.0715 found 137.0718.

Benzyl O 4 fluorobenzamidoxime compound 18 structure shown below A solution of Z N hydroxybenzamidine 102 mg 0.75 mmol in methylene chloride 2.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 26 L 1.5 mol was cooled to 0 C. in an iced water bath under an atmosphere of nitrogen. Then 4 fluorobenzoyl chloride 13 L 1.1 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 19 hours. Then ethyl acetate 20 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 20 mL and then brine 20 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The material was purified using silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 8 to 2 1 to give the product 124 mg 64 as white crystals. 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.15 2H bs 7.16 2H t J 8.7 Hz 7.43 7.47 2H m 7.49 7.53 1H m 7.76 7.78 2H m 8.12 2H dd J 9.0 5.4 Hz . C NMR 75 MHz CDCL ppm 116.0 2CH d J 21.8 Hz 126.1 127.1 CH 129.0 CH 131.2 131.4 CH 132.2 2CH d J 9.5 Hz 157.5 163.3 166.6 C d J 254.3 Hz . F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 105.2 105.3 1F m . MS FAB 259 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 259.0883 found 259.0904.

5 4 fluorophenyl 3 phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 19 structure shown below Benzyl O 4 fluorobenzamidoxime 116 mg 449 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 5.0 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M 450 L was added dropwise the solution was stirred at room temperature for 21 hours. The solid residue was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 8 and the product was crystallized from hot hexane to give clear crystals 66 mg 61 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCL ppm 7.23 2H t J 8.3 Hz 7.49 7.51 3H m 8.16 2H dd J 2.8 6.9 Hz 8.21 2H dd J 5.4 8.3 Hz . C NMR 75 MHz CDCL ppm 116.7 2CH d J 21.8 Hz 127.0 127.7 CH 129.1 CH 130.8 CH 131.1 2CH d J 54.0 Hz 163.9 167.3 169.18 175.0. MS FAB 241 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 241.0777 found 241.0759.

Benzyl O 4 bromobenzamidoxime compound 20 structure shown below Z N Hydroxybenzamidine 226 1.66 mmol was added methylene chloride 5.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 433 mg 3.32 mmol . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and placed under nitrogen. Then 4 bromobenzoyl chloride 372 mg 1.66 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 48 hours. Ethyl acetate 25.0 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 20 mL and then brine 20 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The material was purified using column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 4 to 1 1 to give the product as white crystals 148 mg 28 . Used immediately in the next step H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 7.02 2H bs 7.45 7.56 3H m 7.74 7.77 4H m 8.13 2H d J 8.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz DMSO d ppm 126.9 CH 127.1 128.4 CH 128.6 CH 130.6 131.5 CH 131.6 CH 131.7 175.2. MS FAB 319 MH . HRMS for CHBrNO MH calculated 319.0082 found 319.0085.

5 4 bromophenyl 3 phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 21 structure shown below Benzyl O 4 bromobenzamidoxime 95 mg 298 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 10.0 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 85 L was added dropwise the solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours 30 minutes. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the solid residue was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 6 and to give a white crystalline material 76 mg 84 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.48 7.52 3H m 7.67 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.06 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.13 8.15 2H m . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 126.9 127.7 CH 127.9 129.0 CH 129.7 CH 131.5 132.6 169.2 175.0. MS FAB 301 MH . HRMS for CHBrNO MH calculated 300.9976 found 300.9980.

5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 3 phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 22 structure shown below EDC 299 mg 1.54 mmol in CHCl 5.0 mL was added to a solution of 4 benzyloxybenzoic acid 336 1.47 mmol and benzylhydroxyamidine 200 mg 1.47 mmol in CHCl 5.0 mL . The mixture was stirred for 6 hours and checked by TLC for completion. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 2.95 mL was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 4 1 2 and was crystallized from hot ethyl acetate to give a white crystalline material 107 mg 22 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.16 2H s 7.11 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.36 7.46 5H m 7.49 7.51 3H m 8.16 4H d J 8.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 70.4 CH 115.5 CH 117.3 127.3 127.7 CH 127.8 CH 128.5 CH 128.9 129.0 CH 130.3 CH 131.3 136.2 162.5 169.0 175.8. MS FAB 329 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 329.1290 found 329.1302.

4 3 Phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl phenol compound 23 structure shown below A suspension of 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 3 phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 90 mg 0.27 mmol and 10 Pd C 2 mg 7 mol in methanol 3.0 mL and THF 3.0 mL was stirred in a single necked round bottom flask fitted with a condenser under an atmosphere of hydrogen at 55 C. for 72 hours. The solution was filtered through Celite and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and then purified by column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 2 to give the product 7 mg 11 as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 6.86 2H d J 8.8 Hz 6.99 2H d J 9.2 Hz 8.01 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.05 2H d J 9.2 Hz .

 Z N hydroxy 4 methoxybenzamidine compound 24 structure shown below A solution of anisonitrile 300 mg 2.25 mmol and hydroxylamine 275 L 9.01 mmol in ethanol 5.0 mL was refluxed for 3 hours. The reaction was cooled and then concentrated in vacuo to give the product 370 mg 99 which immediately formed white crystals and was taken to the next step without further purification. A small quantity was purified by column chromatography over silica gel Hex EtOAc 1 8 to give the product 370 mg 99 as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 3.83 3H s 4.86 2H bs 6.91 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.56 2H d J 8.4 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 55.5 CH3 114.2 CH 125.1 127.4 CH 152.7 161.2. MS FAB 167 MH . HRMS for OHNO MH calculated 167.0821 found 167.0803.

4 fluorobenzoyl O 4 methoxybenzamidoxime compound 25 structure shown below Z N hydroxy 4 methoxybenzamidine 200 mg 1.20 mmol was added to methylene chloride 14.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 420 L 2.41 mmol . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and placed under nitrogen. Then 4 Fluorobenzoyl chloride 215 L 1.81 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 21 hours. Ethyl acetate 20 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 20 mL and then brine 20 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The solid residue was purified using column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 8 to 3 1 to give the product as a white powder 340 mg 98 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 3.84 3H bs 5.16 2H bs 6.93 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.14 2H t J 8.7 Hz 7.70 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.10 2H dd J 8.7 9.4 Hz . C NMR 75 MHz CDCL ppm 55.6 CH 114.3 CH 115.9 2 CH d J 21.6 Hz 123.4 126.1 128.5 CH 132.2 2 CH d J 9.4 Hz 157.3 162.1 163.4 165.9 1C d J 254.3 Hz . F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 105.3 105.4 1F m . MS FAB 289 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 289.0988 found 289.0999.

5 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 26 structure shown below 4 Fluorobenzoyl O 4 methoxybenzamidoxime 300 mg 1.04 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 15.0 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 1.04 mmol 1.0 mL was added dropwise the solution was stirred at room temperature for 17 hours 45 minutes. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 2 to 1 1 and crystallized from hot hexane to give a white crystalline material 169 mg 60 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCL ppm 3.82 3H s 6.95 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.17 2H t J 8.6 Hz 8.03 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.10 2H dd J 8.8 9.4 Hz . C NMR 75 MHz CDCL ppm 55.6 CH 114.5 CH 116.6 2CH d J 21.7 Hz 119.5 121.0 C d J 1.5 Hz 129.3 130.8 2CH d J 9.0 Hz 162.2 163.9 167.3 168.9. MS FAB 271 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 271.0883 found 271.0888.

5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 27 structure shown below EDC 246 mg 1.27 mmol in methylene chloride 5.0 mL was added to a solution of 4 benzyloxybenzoic acid 279 mg 1.21 mmol and benzylhydroxyamidine 201 mg 1.21 mmol in methylene chloride 10.0 mL . The mixture was stirred for 6 hours and checked by TLC for completion. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 2.42 mmol 2.3 mL was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 13 hours 30 minutes. The solid residue was purified by column chromatography over silica gel EtOAc Hex 1 4 to 1 2 and was crystallized from ethyl acetate to give a white crystalline material 74 mg 17 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 3.88 3H s 5.15 2H s 7.01 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.10 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.40 7.46 4H m 8.10 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.15 2H d J 8.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 55.6 CH 70.4 CH 114.4 CH 115.5 CH 117.4 119.8 127.8 CH 128.5 CH 128.9 CH 129.3 CH 130.3 CH 136.3 162.0 162.4 168.7 175.5. MS FAB 359 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 359.1396 found 359.1392.

4 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl phenol compound 28 structure shown below 5 4 Benzyloxy phenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 50 mg 139 mol and 10 Pd C 1 mg 10 mol were suspended in methanol 3.0 mL and THF 3.0 mL . The solution was stirred in a round bottom flask fitted with a condenser and septa and placed under Hat 55 C. for 95 hours. The solution was filtered through Celite and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and then purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 2 to give the product 3 mg 9 as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 3.88 3H s 5.55 1H s 6.98 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.01 2H d J 8.4 Hz 8.01 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.12 2H d J 8.2 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 55.6 CH 114.4 CH 116.3 CH 117.4 119.7 129.3 CH 130.6 CH 159.6 162.1 168.7 175.4. MS FAB 269 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 269.0926 found 269.0929.

 Z 4 phenoxy O 4 fluorobenzoyl benzamidoxime compound 29 structure shown below Z N hydroxy 4 phenoxybenzamidine 140 mg 0.61 mmol was placed under nitrogen and dissolved in methylene chloride 3.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 220 L 1.23 mmol was added. The solution was cooled to 0 C. and then 4 Fluorobenzoyl chloride was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 18 hours. Ethyl acetate 25 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 25 mL and then brine 25 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude solid was purified using silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 8 to 1 6 and recrystallized from hot hexane to give the product as clear crystals. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.20 2H bs 7.05 2H t J 6.8 7.16 7.20 2H m 7.40 2H t J 7.6 Hz 7.74 2H d J 8.2 Hz 8.12 2H d J 5.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 115.9 CH d J 22.2 Hz 118.5 CH 119.8 CH 124.3 CH 125.6 126.0 C d J 3.5 Hz 128.8 CH 130.2 CH 132.2 CH d J 9.1 Hz 156.3 157.0 160.3 163.3 165.9 C d J 253.1 Hz 174.9. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 105.1 105.2 1F m . MS FAB 351 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 351.1145 found 351.1137.

5 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 phenoxyphenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 30 structure shown below Z 4 Phenoxy O 4 fluorobenzamidoxime 32 mg 91 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 3.0 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF 26 L was added dropwise the solution was stirred at room temperature for 21 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the solid residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 2 to give the product 30 mg 99 as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.08 7.11 4H m 7.16 7.19 1H m 7.22 7.25 2H m 7.39 2H dd J 8.6 7.6 Hz 8.12 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.22 2H dd J 9.0 5.2 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 116.6 CH d J 22.5 Hz 116.6 CH 120.0 CH 120.9 C d J 2.5 Hz 121.6 124.4 129.5 CH 130.2 CH 130.8 CH d J 2.5 Hz 156.3 160.4 164.6 167.7 C d J 256.3 Hz 174.9. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 105.1 105.2 1F m . MS FAB 333 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 332.0961 found 332.0946.

 4 methoxyphenoxy tert butyl dimethylsilane compound 31 structure shown below Imidazole 1.80 g 26.1 mmol and p methoxyphenol 1.62 g 13.05 mmol were suspended in THF 30 mL and placed under nitrogen. Tert butyldimethylsilyl chloride 2.23 g 14.36 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 15 hours at room temperature. The thick white mixture was diluted with water 50 mL and extracted with ether 3 15 mL . The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give the product as a clear liquid 2.33 g 75 . Characterization matched literature.

4 4 methoxyphenoxy benzonitrile compound 32 structure shown below To a stirred solution of proazaphosphatrane 15 mg 41 mmol in DMF 20.0 mL was added the aryl fluoride 50 mg 41 mmol under nitrogen. After two minutes of stirring the silated ether 108 mg 45 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was heated at 80 C for 21 hours and then cooled to room temperature. A saturated brine solution 5.0 mL was added and the product was extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL and the organic layer was dried with sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed using reduced pressure and the crude material was purified using column chromatography Hex EtOAc 8 1 to give the pure product as a white solid 36 mg 39 . Characterization matched literature.

 Z 4 4 methoxyphenoxy N hydroxybenzamidine compound 33 structure shown below 4 4 Methoxyphenoxy benzonitrile 581 mg 2.58 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 10.0 mL and hydroxylamine 630 L 10.32 mmol was added. The mixture was refluxed for 1 hour and the reaction was cooled and then concentrated in vacuo to give the crude product which was taken to the next step without further purification 636 mg 95 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 3.81 1H s 4.87 1H bs 6.88 6.94 4H m 6.99 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.55 2H d J 9.0 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 55.8 CH 115.2 CH 117.4 CH 121.4 CH 126.6 CH 127.6 149.5 152.5 156.5 160.4. MS FAB 259 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 259.1083 found 259.1100.

4 4 methoxybenzyloxy phenyl O 4 fluorobenzoylbenzamidoxime compound 34 structure shown below Z 4 4 Methoxyphenoxy N hydroxy benzamidine 300 mg 1.16 mmol was added to methylene chloride 6.0 mL and N ethyldiisopropylamine 304 mg 2.33 mmol . The solution was cooled to 0 C. and placed under nitrogen. 4 Fluorobenzoyl chloride 282 mg 1.74 mmol was then added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for 20 hours. Ethyl acetate 25 mL was poured into the mixture and the solution was washed with water 25 mL and then brine 25 mL . The organic layer was then dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The solid material was purified using silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 8 to 3 1 to give the product as white crystals 320 mg 72 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 3.82 2H s 5.12 2H bs 6.91 2H d J 9.2 Hz 6.97 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.00 2H d J 9.2 Hz 7.15 2H t J 8.7 Hz 7.70 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.11 2H m . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 55.7 CH 115.0 115.7 CH d J 22.5 Hz 117.3 CH 121.3 CH 124.8 125.9 128.5 132.0 CH d J 9.4 Hz 149.0 156.4 156.9 162.2 C d J 237.7 Hz 164.8 166.8. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 105.2 105.4 1F m . MS FAB 380 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 380.1172 found 380.1151.

3 4 4 methoxyphenoxy phenyl 5 4 fluorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole compound 35 structure shown below 4 4 Methoxybenzyloxy phenyl O 4 fluorobenzoylbenzamidoxime 293 mg 0.77 mmol was placed under nitrogen and THF 10.0 mL was added. Then tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.77 L 0.77 mmol was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 13 hours 30 minutes. The crude solid was purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 2 to 1 1 and was crystallized from hot hexane to give a white crystalline material 259 mg 93 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 3.79 2H s 6.90 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.01 4H t J 9.2 Hz 7.18 2H t J 8.7 Hz 8.06 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.16 2H dd J 8.9 5.3 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 55.7 CH 115.1 CH 116.5 CH d J 22.5 Hz 117.3 CH 120.8 121.6 CH 129.3 130.6 CH d J 8.8 Hz 149.0 156.5 161.4 165.5 C d J 252.9 Hz 168.6 174.6. F 282 MHz CDCL ppm 105.1 105.2 1F m . MS FAB 362 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 362.1067 found 362.1063.

4 4 5 4 fluorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy phenol compound 36 structure shown below 3 4 4 Methoxyphenoxy phenyl 5 4 fluorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 150 mg 0.414 mmol was suspended in dry methylene chloride 10.0 mL and the mixture was placed under nitrogen and cooled to 80 C. Boron tribromide 1.0 M in CH2Cl2 2.07 mmol was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 19 hours 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 80 C and H2O 2.0 mL was added dropwise. The organic layer was removed under reduced pressure and the compound was purified by column chromatography Hex EtOAc 2 1 to give a white powder 144 mg 100 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 6.83 2H d J 8.8 Hz 6.98 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.04 2H t J 8.8 Hz 7.49 2H t J 8.8 Hz 8.03 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.23 2H dd J 8.8 5.4 Hz 9.49 1H s . C NMR 125 MHz DMSO d ppm 116.5 CH 116.9 CH d J 22.5 Hz 116.9 CH 119.7 121.6 CH d J 3.8 Hz 121.7 CH 129.1 130.8 CH d J 10.0 Hz 146.6 154.5 161.3 164.9 C d J 251.2 Hz 167.8 174.4. F 282 MHz DMSO d ppm 105.1 105.2 1F m . MS FAB 348 MH . HRMS for CHFNO MH calculated 348.0910 found 348.0897.

4 4 5 4 fluorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy phenyl dihydrogen phosphate compound 37 structure shown below A solution of 4 4 5 4 fluorophenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy phenol 20 mg 58 mol in dry pyridine 4.0 mL was slowly added with stirring to phosphorus oxychloride 9 mg 58 mol . The mixture was refluxed for 40 minutes and then allowed to cool to room temperature and then was slowly added to ice. Once cooled the water was removed under reduced pressure and the solid material was purified by silica gel column chromatography CHCl MeOH 95 5 to give the product as an off white solid 3 mg 12 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 7.02 7.11 4H m 7.22 2H d J 7.2 Hz 7.50 2H td J 9.0 2.6 Hz 8.04 2H dd J 8.8 2.4 Hz 8.21 8.26 2H m . F 282 MHz DMSO d ppm 105.3 105.4 1F m . P NMR 121 MHz DMSO d ppm 67.08 1P s .

4 pyrazin 2 yloxy benzonitrile compound 38 structure shown below 2 Iodopyrazine 2.00 g 9.42 mmol copper I iodide 366 mg 1.88 mmol cesium carbonate 6.14 g 18.84 mmol 4 hydroxybenzonitrile 1.68 g 14.13 mmol and N N dimethylglycine hydrochloride 398 mg 2.83 mmol were dried and placed under nitrogen and then degassed 1 4 dioxane 25.0 mL was added. The whole mixture was heated at 90 C. for 138 hours. The cooled mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 50 mL and water 50 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The organic layers were combined and washed with brine 50 mL and dried with NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude solid was placed on a silica gel column and purified EtOAc Hex 1 8 to give the product as an off white solid 1.61 g 87 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCL ppm 7.31 2H d J 9.1 Hz 7.74 2H d J 9.1 Hz 8.14 1H dd J 2.4 1.4 Hz 8.37 1H d J 2.4 Hz 8.51 1H s . C NMR 75 MHz CDCL ppm 109.0 118.5 122.0 CH 134.1 CH 136.4 CH 139.8 CH 141.1 CH 156.7 159.1. MS FAB 198 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 198.0667 found 198.0661.

 Z N hydroxy 4 pyrazin 2 yloxy benzamidine compound 39 structure shown below 4 Pyrazin 2 yloxy benzonitrile 1.00 g 5.06 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 15.0 mL hydroxylamine 625 L 20.28 mmol was added and the mixture was refluxed for 17 hours. The reaction was cooled and then concentrated in vacuo to give the crude product which immediately formed white crystals and was taken to the next step without further purification 1.16 g 100 . A small quantity was purified by column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 8 to give the pure product. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 5.85 2H s 7.21 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.73 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.21 1H dd J 2.7 1.5 Hz 8.39 1H d J 2.8 Hz 8.57 1H d J 1.4 Hz 9.66 1H s . C NMR 75 MHz DMSO d ppm 120.9 CH 126.9 CH 130.4 135.7 CH 139.1 CH 141.2 CH 150.3 153.4 159.5. MS FAB 231 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 231.0882 found 231.0892.

2 4 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy pyrazine compound 40 structure shown below Z N hydroxy 4 pyrazin 2 yloxy benzamidine 22 mg 97 mol and acid chloride 3 mg 126 mol were suspended in pyridine 5.0 mL the solution was refluxed for 19 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue solid was purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 2 to give the product as a white solid 26 mg 64 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.14 2H s 7.02 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.12 1H d J 8.8 Hz 7.31 1H d J 8.8 Hz 7.34 7.38 1H m 7.39 7.46 5H m 8.07 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.16 1H d J 9.0 Hz 8.24 1H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 70.4 CH 114.8 CH 115.6 CH 121.7 CH 127.7 CH 128.5 CH 128.5 128.9 CH 129.0 CH 129.5 CH 130.3 CH 132.6 CH 136.3 139.2 141.4 163.4. MS FAB 423 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 423.1457 found 423.1448.

4 pyridin 2 yloxy benzonitrile compound 41 structure shown below 4 Hydroxybenzonitrile 1.00 g 8.39 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous DMSO 5.0 mL and was slowly added a solution of potassium tert butoxide in THF 1.0 M 16.8 mmol . The solution was stirred for 2 hours 30 minutes. A solution of 2 bromopyridine 2.65 g 16.8 mmol in DMSO 5.0 mL was then added to the reaction mixture the whole was heated at 160 C. for 115 hours. The cooled mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 100 mL and water 100 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layers were dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude solid was placed on a silica gel column and purified EtOAc Hex 1 6 to give the product as a light yellow solid 1.04 g 63 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.01 1H d J 8.2 Hz 7.10 1H dd J 7.2 5.0 Hz 7.24 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.68 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.77 1H ddd J 8.3 7.3 2.0 Hz 8.22 1H dd J 5.0 2.0 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 108.0 112.8 CH 118.9 120.0 CH 121.6 CH 134.1 CH 140.2 CH 147.9 CH 158.2 162.5. MS FAB 197 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 197.0713 found 197.0715.

 Z N hydroxy 4 pyridin 2 yloxy benzamidine compound 42 structure shown below 4 Pyridin 2 yloxy benzonitrile 701 mg 3.57 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 14.0 mL and hydroxylamine 472 mg 14.3 mmol was added and the mixture was refluxed for 16 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and then concentrated in vacuo to give the product as a yellow syrup and was taken to the next step without further purification 818 mg 100 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 4.91 2H bs 6.94 1H dt J 8.4 0.8 Hz 7.02 1H ddd J 7.2 5.0 0.8 Hz 7.16 2H d J 8.6 Hz 7.66 2H d J 8.6 Hz 7.71 1H ddd J 8.2 7.2 2.0 Hz 8.21 1H ddd J 5.0 2.0 0.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 112.1 CH 119.1 CH 121.4 CH 127.6 CH 129.0 139.8 CH 147.9 CH 152.4 155.8 163.4. MS FAB 230 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 230.0930 found 230.0934.

2 4 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy pyridine compound 43 structure shown below Z N Hydroxy 4 pyridin 2 yloxy benzamidine 339 mg 137 mol and 4 benzyloxybenzoyl chloride 24 mg 106 mol were suspended in pyridine 2.0 mL the solution was refluxed for 21 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 2 1 to give the product as a white solid 20 mg 46 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.16 2H s 6.99 1H d J 8.2 Hz 7.05 1H ddd J 7.2 5.0 0.80 Hz 7.11 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.27 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.34 7.38 1H m 7.40 7.46 4H m 7.73 1H ddd J 8.8 8.2 2.0 Hz 8.16 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.20 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.24 1H dd J 5.0 2.0Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 70.4 CH 112.3 CH 115.5 CH 117.3 119.3 CH 121.4 CH 123.5 127.7 CH 128.5 CH 128.9 CH 129.3 CH 130.3 CH 136.2 139.9 CH 148.0 CH 156.8 162.5 163.3 168.5 175.7. MS FAB 422 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 422.1505 found 422.1505.

4 3 4 pyridin 2 yloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl phenol compound 44 structure shown below 2 4 5 4 Benzyloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy pyridine 310 mg 376 mol was placed in a single neck round bottom flask suspended in methanol 5.0 mL and THF 5.0 mL and 10 Pd C 0.5 mg 5.0 mol was added. A condenser was placed on top of the flask and then sealed. The solution was stirred under Hat 55 C. for 22 hours. While hot the solution was filtered through Celite washed with additional methanol and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The solid residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 2 to give the product as a white solid 7 mg 3 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.00 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.14 1H d J 8.2 Hz 7.05 1H ddd J 7.3 5.0 1.0 Hz 7.32 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.92 1H ddd J 8.8 8.2 2.0 Hz 8.03 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.11 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.21 1H ddd J 5.0 2.0 1.0 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 112.2 CH 114.1 116.3 CH 119.7 CH 121.5 CH 122.4 128.7 CH 130.1 CH 140.5 CH 147.6 CH 156.6 162.1 162.4 167.6 175.5. MS FAB 332 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 332.1035 found 332.1049.

4 pyridin 3 yloxy benzonitrile compound 45 structure shown below A solution of potassium tert butoxide in THF 1.0 M 8.73 mmol was slowly added to a solution of 3 hydroxypyridine 830 mg 8.73 mmol in anhydrous DMF 5.0 mL and was stirred for 2 hours. A solution of 4 iodobenzonitrile in DMF 5.0 mL was then added to the reaction mixture and was then heated at 160 C. for 18 hours. The mixture was cooled and partitioned between ethyl acetate 50 mL and water 50 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The organic layers were dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was placed on a silica gel column and purified EtOAc Hex 1 8 to give the product as a yellow oil 640 mg 75 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 7.05 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.10 1H dd J 8.4 4.6 Hz 7.24 1H ddd J 8.4 2.6 1.6 Hz 7.65 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.46 1H d J 2.6 Hz 8.22 1H dd J 4.6 1.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 107.1 118.3 CH 118.6 124.7 CH 127.5 CH 134.5 CH 142.8 CH 146.4 CH 151.8 160.9. MS FAB 197 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 197.0713 found 197.0696.

 Z N hydroxy 4 pyridin 3 yloxy benzamidine compound 46 structure shown below 4 Pyridin 3 yloxy benzonitrile 486 mg 2.48 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 10.0 mL then hydroxylamine 1.0 mL 9.9 mmol was added and the mixture was refluxed for 4 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo to give the product which immediately formed yellow solid 565 mg 100 which was taken to the next step without further purification. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 5.83 2H bs 7.05 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.43 1H ddd J 8.4 4.4 0.8 Hz 7.46 1H ddd J 8.4 2.7 1.6 Hz 7.72 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.39 1H dd J 4.5 1.5 Hz 8.41 1H d J 2.8 Hz 9.64 1H bs . C NMR 125 MHz DMSO d ppm 118.1 CH 124.8 CH 126.1 CH 127.4 CH 129.2 134.5 CH 141.2 CH 144.9 CH 150.3 153.0 156.7. MS FAB 230 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 230.0930 found 230.0941.

3 4 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy pyridine compound 47 structure shown below Z N Hydroxy 4 pyridin 3 yloxy benzamidine 206 mg 89.9 mol N dimethylaminopyridine 1.1 mg 9.0 mol and 4 benzyloxybenzoyl chloride 28.8 mg 116.8 mol were suspended in pyridine 5.0 mL and the solution was refluxed for 45 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the solid residue was purified by column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 4 to give the product as a white solid 30 mg 78 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.16 2H s 7.11 2H d J 6.0 Hz 7.12 2H d J 6.2 Hz 7.33 7.37 2H m 7.39 7.46 5H m 8.15 2H d J 7.6 Hz 8.17 2H d J 7.4 Hz 8.45 1H d J 4.6 Hz 8.49 1H d J 2.4 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 70.4 CH 115.5 CH 117.2 118.8 CH 123.0 CH 124.6 126.8 CH 127.7 CH 128.5 CH 128.8 128.9 CH 129.7 CH 130.3 CH 136.2 141.9 145.0 159.1 162.5 168.3 175.8. MS FAB 422 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 422.1505 found 422.1521.

4 3 4 pyridin 3 yloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl phenol compound 48 structure shown below In a single neck round bottom flask fitted with a condenser 3 4 5 4 Benzyloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy pyridine 224 mg 531 mol was suspended in methanol 5.0 mL and THF 5.0 mL and then 10 Pd C 1.0 mg 36 mol was added. The reaction vessel was sealed and the solution was stirred under Hat 55 C. for 23 hours. The hot solution was filtered through Celite and the pad was washed with methanol 20 mL . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The solid residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 2 to give the product as a white solid 2 mg 1 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 7.00 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.23 1H d J 9.0 Hz 7.05 1H ddd J 8.4 4.8 0.8 Hz 7.61 1H ddd J 8.4 2.8 1.4 Hz 8.02 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.01 2H d J 9.0 Hz 8.46 1H dd J 4.7 1.3 Hz 8.21 1H d J 2.8 Hz 10.58 1H s . MS FAB 332 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 332.1035 found 332.1013.

4 pyridin 4 yloxy benzonitrile compound 49 structure shown below Potassium tert butoxide 1.0 M in THF 10.5 mL was slowly added to a solution of 4 hydroxypyridine 997 mg 10.5 mmol in anhydrous DMSO 10.0 mL . After the mixture was stirred for 3 hours a solution of 4 iodobenzonitrile 1.2 g 5.2 mmol in DMSO 10.0 mL was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 160 C. for 44 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and partitioned between methylene chloride 100 mL and water 100 mL . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with methylene chloride 2 100 mL . The organic layers were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The crude solid was purified by silica gel column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 1 then CHCl MeOH 98 2 to 96 4 to give the product as a light yellow solid 480 mg 47 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 6.52 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.53 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.64 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.87 2H d J 8.8 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 112.4 117.6 119.8 CH 123.2 CH 134.5 CH 138.2 CH 146.2 179.0. MS FAB 197 MH . HRMS for OHNO MH calculated 197.0715 found 197.0716.

 Z N hydroxy 4 pyridin 4 yloxy benzamidine compound 50 structure shown below 4 Pyridin 4 yloxy benzonitrile 293 mg 1.49 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 6.0 mL and hydroxylamine 197 mg 5.97 mmol was added. The mixture was refluxed for 3 hours and cooled to room temperature and then concentrated in vacuo to give the product which immediately formed white crystals and was taken to the next step without further purification. A small quantity was purified by column chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 8 to give the pure product 323 mg 94 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 5.95 2H s 6.24 2H d J 8.0 Hz 7.56 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.84 2H d J 8.6 Hz 8.02 2H d J 7.8 Hz 9.81 1H s . C NMR 125 MHz DMSO d ppm 118.0 CH 122.1 CH 126.7 CH 132.6 139.6 CH 142.8 149.8 177.4. MS FAB 230 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 230.0930 found 230.0950.

4 4 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy pyridine compound 51 structure shown below Z N Hydroxy 4 pyridin 4 yloxy benzamidine 20 mg 88 mol and 4 benzyloxybenzoyl chloride 28 mg 114 mol were suspended in pyridine 5.0 mL . The solution was refluxed for 21 hours cooled to room temperature and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The solid residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the product as a white solid 10 mg 27 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCL ppm 5.18 2H s 6.55 2H d J 7.8 Hz 7.14 2H d J 9.0 Hz 7.36 7.47 5H m 7.50 2H d J 8.6 Hz 7.68 2H d J 7.8 Hz 8.17 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.33 2H d J 8.6 Hz . C NMR 125 MHz CDCL ppm 70.5 CH 115.7 CH 116.9 119.5 CH 123.1 CH 127.6 127.7 CH 128.6 CH 129.0 CH 129.7 CH 130.4 CH 136.1 138.8 CH 145.1 162.7 167.7 176.2 179.3. MS FAB 422 MH . HRMS for CHNO MH calculated 422.1505 found 422.1494.

4 3 4 pyridin 4 yloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl phenol compound 52 structure shown below In a single neck round bottom flask fitted with a condenser 4 4 5 4 benzyloxy phenyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenoxy pyridine 97 mg 229 mol was suspended in methanol 3.0 mL and THF 3.0 mL 10 Pd C 1 mg 16 mol was added The reaction vessel was sealed and the solution was stirred under Hat 55 C. for 14 hours. The hot solution was filtered through Celite and the pad was washed with methanol 20 mL . The hot solution was filtered through Celite and the pad was washed with methanol 20 mL . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure the solid residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography EtOAc Hex 1 2 to give the product as a white solid 3 mg 4 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d ppm 6.57 2H d J 7.8 Hz 6.84 1H d J 9.0 Hz 7.50 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.56 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.75 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.08 2H d J 7.8 Hz .

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention a variety of compounds have been prepared and tested as indicated in part by the description above. The tables below provide minimum inhibitory concentration data for the identified compounds tested against various bacterial strains.

Table 1 lists the active compounds and the activity of those compounds for a limited quantity of bacteria. Blank spaces indicate low or no activity.

Additional analogues within the bounds of the claims of the present invention are provided in where R O N NH S or CH. One of ordinary skill in the invention would be aware of further analogues of the compounds of and the other compounds presented herein and to the extent such analogues are encompassed by the claims as presented such analogues are included herein.

Embodiments of the present invention also provide methods for inhibiting growth reproduction etc. of bacteria using compounds described herein. As discussed above compounds in accordance with embodiments of the present invention are designed to target penicillin binding proteins. In other embodiments compounds in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may be designed to target other biological process of bacteria.

In an embodiment a method for inhibiting growth of bacteria is provided comprising providing a source containing bacteria and contacting the source with at least one compound such as the compounds provided herein as well as other compounds individually or in combination. In an embodiment a source may be a human or an animal and a contacting operation may be performed in vivo in said human or animal or may be performed in vitro on an extracted sample or testing sample. In an embodiment gram positive bacteria and in particular the PBPs on gram positive bacteria may be targeted for inhibition. In embodiments strains of and or may be targeted. In other embodiments other bacterial strains may be targeted such as but not limited to or others.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description of the preferred embodiment it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present invention. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments in accordance with the present invention may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments in accordance with the present invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

