---

title: Contaminant prevention
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for water purification. Embodiments can generally be applied to demister cyclones (). Some embodiments allow for more of the pressure change which occurs in demister cyclones to occur in the separating chamber () of the demister cyclone. Some embodiments include a demister cyclone having an internal perforated wall (). Some embodiments include a groove () or a baffle () on the underside of a boiler cover.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08562824&OS=08562824&RS=08562824
owner: Sylvan Source, Inc.
number: 08562824
owner_city: San Carlos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070302
---
Distillation systems used for water purification rely on the evaporation of water containing contaminants so as to produce steam which is essentially free of contaminants. Advanced distillation systems normally reduce volatile organic compounds VOCs by means of degassing and a very effective method of degassing entails steam stripping of the incoming water. Non organic contaminants such as dissolved salts or solid sediments are normally removed during boiling so that only clean steam is produced and subsequently allowed to condense into purified water. Advanced distillation systems can remove mist contaminants by means of a demister cyclone which imparts high rotational forces to the steam containing mist particles thus separating and subsequently discarding mist particles by centrifugal forces and allowing only clean steam to condense into the product water as described in PCT application Nos PCT US2004 03993 filed Dec. 1 2004 PCT US2004 03991 filed Dec. 1 2004 and U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 11 255 083 filed Oct. 19 2005 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties.

Demister cyclones operate according to the principles of gas cyclones which separate gases from heavier i.e. denser solid or liquid particulates according to differences in specific gravity. Demister cyclones effect separation by imparting a rotational speed to the mixture of gases and particulates.

In some aspects a demister cyclone with altered steam circulation is desirable. In some aspects the demister cyclone involves a flow restrictor that is placed or configured in the demister cyclone so that at least some more or all of the change in pressure e.g. pressure drop that occurs when the steam enters the demister occurs when the steam enters the primary chamber of the demister rather than immediately before entering the primary chamber.

In some aspects a perforated interior shell can be used in a demister to improve the function of the demister.

In some situations what is needed are ways of reducing contaminants that can enter a demister cyclone. This can be achieved through the use of mechanical barriers that prevent large mist particles from entering the demister cyclone and or grooves in the underside of the boiler cover that prevent the lateral migration of condensed water droplets from approaching and entering the entry port of the demister cyclone. In some situations what is needed are design changes in the demister cyclone that either minimize disruption of the cyclonic action due to liquid flooding or that provide for a more effective mechanism for rejecting mist droplets and liquid splashes from clean steam. For some situations a further desirable feature of such design modifications is that they should be inexpensive to install and operate in an advanced distillation system. In some embodiments the various aspects can provide for improved demisting in water distillation systems that include degassing demisting boiling and condensing operations.

In some aspects an efficient method for improving the performance of a demister cyclone in an advanced water purification system that effects purification of contaminated water is provided.

In some embodiments the demister cyclone operation can be achieved by a baffle or combination of baffles placed near the inlet of the demister cyclone and grooves in the boiler cover of the water purification system which can prevent or reduce the chance that water droplets that condense on the underside of the boiler cover can enter into the demister cyclone. The demister cyclone operation can also involve design changes in the demister cyclone that improve the separation of contaminated mist droplets from clean steam.

In some embodiments the invention provides for improved demisting in water distillation systems that include degassing boiling demisting and condensing operations.

In some aspects the present invention includes an efficient method for improving the performance of a demister cyclone in an advanced water purification system that effects purification of contaminated water.

In some aspects a demister cyclone is provided. It can include a curved separating chamber having a top portion a bottom portion and a curved wall connected to the top portion and to the bottom portion. It can further include an entry port into the curved separating chamber. The entry port can be located in a perimeter defined by or within the curved wall. The height of the entry port is less than the height of the curved wall. The demister cyclone further includes an inlet that allows an incoming flow such as steam from a boiler to enter the demister. The steam can then travel to the entry port to enter the curved separating chamber. A flow passing though the entry port is biased to travel along the curved wall rather than to flow straight into the chamber. The demister cyclone further includes an outlet located towards a center portion of the curved separating chamber.

In some embodiments the surface area of the cross section of the steam inlet is more than or substantially equal to the surface area of the cross section of the entry port. In some embodiments the entry port is configured to cause steam to flow in a ribbon for example a relative wide flow along a portion of the curved wall rather than a ribbon along the entire height of the curved wall when the steam enters the curved separating chamber. It can be an upper lower or middle portion of the wall. In some embodiments the flow restrictor is configured to cause substantially all of the pressure drop from the steam entering the demister to occur inside the curved separating chamber of the demister. In some embodiments substantially all of the pressure drop is oriented such that flow is forced along the curved wall of the large chamber. In some embodiments the surface area of the entry port is less than or equal to the surface area of a low pressure entry port. A low pressure entry port is an entry port that has the same width as the entry port or high pressure entry port but has an increased height. The height of the low pressure entry port can be the distance between the top portion and the bottom portion. In some embodiments the curved wall forms a circular separating chamber. The top border of the curved wall is connected to the top portion. The bottom border of the curved wall is connected to the bottom portion. The entry port is formed by a space created between a left border and a right border of the curved wall. In some embodiments a flow restrictor is placed between the left border and the right border of the curved wall so as to decrease the surface area of the entry port.

In some aspects a demister cyclone is provided that includes a curved separating chamber having a top portion a bottom portion and a curved outer wall connecting the top portion to the bottom portion. The demister cyclone can also have an entry port to allow a flow to enter the curved separating chamber and a perforated inner wall located within the curved separating chamber. The perforated inner wall is configured such that mist particles can pass through said perforations. There is also an outlet located towards a center portion of the curved separating chamber. In some embodiments the entry port is configured to release the flow such as steam from a boiler within the volume encompassed within the perforated inner wall. In some embodiments the entry port is positioned such that the flow through the entry port is generally biased to flow along the perforated inner wall the curved outer wall or both walls. In some embodiments the perforated inner wall is concentric to the curved outer wall. In some embodiments the perforated inner chamber of the demister cyclone can be circular parabolic or spiral in shape. In some embodiments there is also an exit port. In some embodiments the exit port is located in an area defined between the curved outer wall and the perforated inner wall. In some embodiments there is also an inlet that allows a flow from a boiler to enter the demister. The inlet is connected to the entry port and the entry port is positioned so as to direct the flow along the perforated inner wall.

In some aspects a demister cyclone is provided that includes a curved separating chamber having a top portion a bottom portion and a curved outer wall connecting the top portion to the bottom portion. The demister cyclone also has an entry port to allow a flow to enter the curved separating chamber and a perforated inner wall located within the curved separating chamber. The perforated inner wall can be configured so that mist particles can pass through the perforations. The entry port can be located along the perforated inner wall. The first outlet can be located towards a center of the top portion of the curved separating chamber. A second outlet can be located at a periphery of the bottom portion of the curved separating chamber.

In some aspects a water purification system is provided that includes a boiling chamber having a boiler cover a demister cyclone attached to the top of the boiler cover a passageway between the demister cyclone and boiling chamber that passes through the boiler cover and at least one of a baffle metal groove or a combination thereof located close to the passageway on a bottom of the boiler cover. In some embodiments the baffle metal groove or combination thereof is located on a boiler cover. The baffle metal groove or combination thereof is positioned to reduce the likelihood that splashes of liquid in the boiler or liquid associated with the internal surface of the boiler cover can enter the passageway. In some embodiments the baffle metal groove or combination thereof is placed proximate to the passageway. In some embodiments the baffle metal groove or combination thereof is placed between a portion of a first surface area on the internal surface of the boiler cover and a portion of a second surface area on the internal surface of the boiler cover wherein the passageway is contained within the first surface area. In some embodiments the baffle is made from metal ceramic or plastic plate or plates. In some embodiments the baffle has a first structure that extends away from the internal surface of the boiler cover and does not prevent the flow of steam through the passageway. In some embodiments the first structure is a plate. In some embodiments the baffle further includes a second structure that is connected to the first structure. The second structure extends approximately parallel to the boiler cover and the second structure extends over the passageway without preventing steam from flowing through the passageway. In some embodiments the first structure is a plate that is approximately perpendicular to the internal surface of the boiler cover and the second structure is a plate that is approximately perpendicular to the first structure. In some embodiments the passageway is located towards the periphery of the boiler cover. In some embodiments the groove is in the internal side of the boiler cover and is located proximate to the passageway. In some embodiments a second groove is present on the internal side of the boiler cover. The second groove can be located proximate to the passageway. In some embodiments a baffle can also be located proximate to the passageway.

In some aspects a method for separating clean and dirty steam in a cyclone demister is provided. The method includes providing a demister cyclone that includes a curved separating chamber having the following a top portion a bottom portion a curved wall connected to the top portion and the bottom portion an entry port into the curved separating chamber the entry port being located in a perimeter defined by the curved wall. The height of the entry port is less than the height of the curved wall. The demister cyclone further includes an inlet that allows an incoming flow to pass through the inlet and travel to the entry port and thereby enter the curved separating chamber. A flow passing through the entry port is biased to travel along the curved wall. The demister cyclone further includes an outlet located towards a center portion of the curved separating chamber. The method further includes flowing steam through the entry port and collecting steam from the outlet.

In some aspects a method of separating clean and dirty steam using a demister cyclone is provided. One first provides a cyclone demister. One then flows a mixture of clean and dirty steam into the cyclone demister. One restricts the flow of the mixture of clean and dirty steam prior to the mixture s entrance into a chamber of the cyclone demister so that substantially all of a change in pressure that occurs as the steam enters the demister cyclone occurs as the steam enters the separating chamber.

In some aspects a method for collecting clean steam is provided. The method includes providing a demister cyclone that includes a perforated inner wall located within the separating chamber of the demister cyclone. One can provide clean and dirty steam into a volume contained within the perforated inner wall and collect steam that exits from an exit portal located near the center of the top of the separating chamber of the demister cyclone. In some embodiments the dirty steam is allowed to pass through the perforated wall and is removed from the demister cyclone via an exit portal located on the periphery of the demister cyclone.

In some aspects a method of reducing contamination between a boiling chamber and a demister cyclone in a water purification system is provided. The method includes shielding a passageway that connects the boiling chamber to the demister. This can be done by using a groove in an inner side of a boiling chamber cover a baffle that covers but does not block the passageway or a combination of a groove and a baffle. In some embodiments at least one groove is used on an inner side of the boiling chamber cover. In some embodiments a baffle is used to shield the passageway.

In general steam containing contaminants e.g. as contaminated mist enters the cyclone and is swirled along the periphery of the cyclone circumference of the main chamber or curved separating chamber . Contaminated mist concentrates by centrifugal action on the periphery of the cyclone while relatively clean steam can exist through an outlet to an outlet tube . In some aspects the present disclosure includes a more efficient method and device for separating mist particulates containing contaminants from clean steam in distillation systems. As shown below in some embodiments the present invention can include the addition of a flow restrictor or an inner perforated shell to enhance the capabilities of the demister cyclone.

In the demister cyclone depicted on the right side of a flow restrictor is positioned in the initial flow path of the demister so that the steam forms a relatively concentrated jet when it enters the curved separating chamber . This smaller jet is caused by the fact that while the width of the entry port has not changed the height of the entry port has decreased. Thus the size or surface area of the cross section of the entry port is effectively smaller than the size of the entry port

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art because the reduced size of the flow of the jet of steam the jet can have a greater velocity than the wider ribbon of steam . Thus a higher velocity of steam can be made to enter the curved separating chamber through the use of a flow restrictor . Additionally the use of the flow restrictor can allow for more of the force from the steam entering the demister to be utilized in the curved separating chamber rather than in the initial flow path . For example instead of a large amount of the pressure drop occurring in the upward direction as in the depiction on the left hand side of more of the pressure drop can occur along the wall in the direction of the rotating steam. Thus the directionality of the change in pressure can be improved by using a flow restrictor.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the pressure drop is due to the change in environment as the heated steam escapes the boiler and enters the demister via the steam inlet e.g. as shown on the left hand side of . Additionally in light of the present disclosure one of skill in the art will appreciate that the volume of the initial flow path can be minimized in some embodiments.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art any of a number of arrangements can be used in order to bias the direction of the steam release. For example the entry of the steam at an angle perpendicular to a radius of the circular chamber can help to bias the flow against the circular wall. Additionally the open arrangement of the entry port allows for the steam or flow to smoothly encounter the wall and efficiently travel around the circular separating chamber . As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art hydrodynamic forces can be optimized accordingly.

While a separate flow restrictor need not be present in every embodiment in the embodiments it is present in the height of the flow restrictor can vary. For example the height of the flow restrictor can be less than equal to or greater than 1 1 2 2 5 5 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 40 50 50 60 60 70 70 80 80 90 90 95 95 99 of the height of the wall .

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the embodiment described in is only one possible configuration of a demister cyclone. In some embodiments the demister cyclone can include additional features such as a conical section to provide for radial flow acceleration and additional residence time or a lesser diameter to increase the radial acceleration and the pressure drop across the unit.

In some embodiments the size of the entry port of the steam into the main chamber of the demister is the same size as the steam inlet so that no substantial loss in pressure occurs until the steam is inside the chamber. In some embodiments the entry port and the steam inlet are similarly sized. For example the entry port can be 10 50 50 60 60 70 70 80 80 90 90 100 100 110 110 120 120 130 130 150 150 200 200 300 percent less or more than the size of the steam inlet . As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art while the use of a flow restrictor in the initial flow path can create a volume in which the steam can gather it can eventually become pressurized and any pressure drop due to the steam leaving the steam inlet can be reduced. However as discussed below the volume of space in the initial flow path between the steam inlet and the flow restrictor can also be reduced as well.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art while a separate flow restrictor can be used in some embodiments the function of the flow restrictor can be achieved by parts that are integral to the device. For example the width of the entry port can be narrowed the wall can be made to block off part of the entry port or a pipe can be connected to the steam inlet to direct the steam into the chamber thereby removing the dead space shown in the initial flow path . Thus a formal separate restrictor need not be used in all embodiments. In some embodiments all that is required to obtain an adequate flow restriction is that a cross section of the surface area of the entry port is similar in size to a cross section of the surface area of the steam inlet. For example the surface area of the entry port can be 10 50 50 60 60 70 70 80 80 90 90 100 100 110 110 120 120 130 130 150 150 200 200 300 percent the size of the surface area of the steam inlet . Of course since the entry port is angled along the circumference of the wall the cross section of the entry port can be taken from the first edge of entry port and straight across the passage to point rather than to the second edge .

In some embodiments not only does the above pressure drop occur in the curved separating chamber but the outward expansion of the steam occurs along the wall so as to add more energy to the rotation of the steam. As noted above in some embodiments the device is configured so that more of the pressure drop occurs inside the curved separating chamber allowing for more of the energy from the expansion of the steam to be released inside the large chamber. In some embodiments all of the pressure drop occurs in the direction of rotation of the steam however any increase can be beneficial for some embodiments. In some embodiments at least 1 5 5 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 40 50 50 60 60 70 70 80 80 90 or 90 100 of the drop in pressure occurs in the large chamber preferably in the direction of the flow of steam.

In some embodiments there is a pipe running from the steam inlet that can have a 90 degree bend so that it also points along wall of the chamber or along the circumference of the chamber . In such an embodiment while the first end of the pipe can be connected to the steam inlet the second end can be positioned so as to force the steam around the curved separating chamber in the desired manner and the second end of the pipe can serve as the entry port of the steam

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in some embodiments an improvement can be realized by matching the cross section of the entry port to that of the steam inlet . Of course any reduction in size of the entry port to make it similar to that of the steam inlet can also achieve some of the same results. Additionally any manner by which the direction or amount of pressure drop can be repositioned or moved so that it occurs in the curved separating chamber in the appropriate direction can also improve the device. For example the height of the chamber can be reduced by reducing the height of the wall . Alternatively an additional flow restrictor can be placed in the initial flow path so that the volume of space in the initial flow path is reduced. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in some embodiments the cross section of the flow path between the steam inlet and the entry port can be the same and can be similar if not identical to the cross section of the entry port and the steam inlet .

The flow restrictor or regulator can be employed alone or in combination with other embodiments disclosed herein.

As shown in the mixture of steam and contaminated particles can enter through inlet and swirl through the circular path defined by inside of the inner perforated wall . The heavier mist particles can pass into the outer circumference of the cyclone and exit through an outer exit port while clean steam exits thought outlet port . As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the exit port can be connected to the boiler so that the waste water is recycled.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art while the outer wall can be generally circular it need not always be concentric or even substantially concentric with respect to the inner chamber . In particular the presence of the inner chamber with its perforated wall can help to establish a large amount of the centrifugal force in the system. Thus the presence of the inner chamber can allow for more variation in the shape of the outer wall .

One of skill in the art will appreciate that the embodiment described in is one of various alternative embodiments. For example the shape of the inner perforated chamber and the wall need not be circular and can be parabolic or follow a spiral shape depending on the size of the mist particles and the speed with which they migrate to the periphery of the cyclone body due to the action of centrifugal forces. The distances between the perforations can be adjusted as desired as can the size of the holes or perforations. In some embodiments the perforated inner chamber is configured so that the holes or perforations are at least 0.01 of the surface area of the curved walls of the inner chamber however larger amounts are contemplated e.g. 0.01 1 1 2 2 5 5 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 40 60 60 80 80 90 90 95 95 98 98 99 99 99.5 or more percent of the surface area of the perforated inner chamber can be holes. The holes should be at least large enough to allow water vapor to pass through and can be larger. In some embodiments the holes are 0.01 to 10 mm in diameter e.g. 1 mm although a larger range of hole sizes can be used as well. The holes need not all be the same size. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the size can depend upon the particular arrangements and dimensions of the demister.

In some embodiments the restrictor and perforated inner chamber can be used in combination for additional advantages.

It has been recognized that in some situations the normal boiling action in a water purification processes can produce micro particles of mist that contain the same contaminants found in the boiling water. Such mist particles can be carried by the steam into the steam condenser thus contaminating the product water. It has also been recognized that in some situations the normal operation of a demister cyclone can be disrupted by the sudden influx of splash water from the boiler which can flood the cyclone. In addition water droplets that condense on the underside of the boiler cover and contain salt contaminants can enter the cyclone as they migrate laterally on the boiler cover thus introducing large amounts of liquid that overwhelm the cyclonic action. Also mist particles from the boiling action can collide and grow and can be carried into the demister cyclone by the high velocity of the steam near the cyclone entry point and they can disrupt the normal operation of the demister unit.

In some aspects the present invention involves a more efficient method device or means of separating mist particulates containing contaminants from clean steam in distillation systems particularly in advanced distillation systems. Some embodiments include various options for preventing large water droplets containing contaminants from entering the demister cyclone from the boiling chamber and other alternative configurations that improve the operation of the demister cyclone.

Two methods and devices for preventing mist particles or splashes of water containing contaminants from entering the cyclone are described with reference to . depicts a boiler cover of an advanced distillation system e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 255 083 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety that shows a mechanical baffle and metal grooves . As described herein either or both of these can be used to reduce the amount of contamination that leaves the boiler. Of course both need not be employed at once. The boiler cover has a top side to which in some embodiments a demister cyclone can be placed and a bottom underside or internal side which is exposed to the inner workings of the boiler.

As shown in the a metal groove can be included in the bottom side of the boiler cover . Preferably the groove is placed next to a steam inlet also depicted as item in . However the groove need not be placed immediately next to the inlet . The groove can be a single groove or there can be multiple grooves such as 2 3 4 5 6 10 or more in the underside of the boiler cover. Additionally the groove can be positioned such that it separates some portion of the underside of the boiler cover from the inlet . As shown in the the groove separates most of the underside of the boiler cover from the inlet . Mist particles that either impinge on the underside of the boiler cover or water droplets that condense on the underside of the boiler cover and that migrate along the boiler cover are prevented or slowed from reaching the inlet of the demister cyclone by the presence of a groove . Instead mist or droplets of contaminated water can grow in size upon reaching the metal groove and drop by gravity into the boiling water thus preventing or reducing the likelihood of the entry of large liquid drops into the demister.

In some embodiments the grooves are larger than the largest size droplet that can condense on the underside of the boiler top.

In some embodiments a different or additional structure s can be used to prevent contamination. is a diagram of a baffle or baffle guard that is mounted on the underside of the boiler cover and that prevents or reduces the likelihood that large droplets of contaminated water can enter the inlet to the demister cyclone . shows an embodiment of the baffle guard . shows a depiction of the baffle guard as mounted on the underside of a boiler cover although it need not include the grooves .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the baffle can be made of metal ceramic plastic or other materials. Furthermore other embodiments involving different orientations of the baffle guard other configurations of said baffle guard and other dimensions of the baffle guard are also possible according to the teachings herein.

In some embodiments such as the one depicted in the baffle or baffle guard includes a portion that is approximately perpendicular to the boiler cover and a second section that is approximately parallel with the boiler cover . As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the angles and sizes of the two sections can vary dramatically and still provide substantial benefits for reducing or preventing splash events or other contaminating events from entering through the inlet as readily as it can without the protective device. In some embodiments the size of the sections can vary from a few millimeters up to several centimeters depending on the flow velocity of the steam.

Additionally it will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure that the baffle can take on a variety of shapes and sizes as long as it is capable of blocking or separating the passageway from some volume of the boiler chamber without preventing the passageway from allowing the passage of steam through to the demister cyclone. For example the baffle can be a single plate or structure that sticks out perpendicularly from the underside of the boiler cover. Alternatively as shown in the baffle can have an additional plate or structure connected to the first where the second plate or structure is located beneath the passageway. Of course the angles between the plates or structures need not be ninety degrees and can be more or less than ninety degrees as long as they serve their purpose without completely blocking the passageway to the flow of steam into the demister. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art some embodiments of the baffle can reduce the flow of steam through the passageway this can be acceptable for various embodiments as long as it does not prevent the flow of steam through the passageway.

In some embodiments additional structures are included in the baffle for example additional plates can be used to further enclose the space surrounding the passageway. Additionally while the baffle can be made of or include solid plates the structures can be screens or include slits so as to generally block large droplets while allowing smaller mist sized particles to proceed. In some embodiments the baffle includes a screen which can simply be placed in front of the passageway or even over the passageway. In other embodiments the baffle includes a woven or spun material for example a metal wool for example aluminum wool which can be placed over or in the passageway. Alternatively it can be placed around the passageway on the inner surface of the boiler cover.

In some embodiments the grooves and baffles can be combined for additional advantages. In some embodiments the grooves and baffles can be applied to situations in which there are additional passageways between the demister and the boiler for example if there is a waste port either or both of these devices can be used in conjunction with such a passageway. Similarly the baffles and grooves can be used with any other passageways located on the boiler cover or upper sections of the boiler chamber.

In some embodiments the system for purifying water embodiments of which are disclosed herein can be combined with other systems and devices to provide further beneficial features. For example the system can be used in conjunction with any of the devices or methods disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 676 870 entitled SOLAR ALIGNMENT DEVICE filed May 2 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 697 104 entitled VISUAL WATER FLOW INDICATOR filed Jul. 6 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 697 106 entitled APPARATUS FOR RESTORING THE MINERAL CONTENT OF DRINKING WATER filed Jul. 6 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 697 107 entitled IMPROVED CYCLONE DEMISTER filed Jul. 6 2005 PCT Application No US2004 039993 filed Dec. 1 2004 PCT Application No US2004 039991 filed Dec. 1 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 526 580 filed Dec. 2 2003 U.S. non provisional application Ser. No. 11 255 083 entitled WATER PURIFICATION SYSTEM filed Oct. 19 2005 each of the foregoing applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Additionally the embodiments disclosed in U.S. provisional applications Nos. 60 778 680 and 60 779 201 both filed Mar. 3 2006 the entireties of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference can also be combined with the presently disclosed embodiments for an improved device.

A discussion of heat pipes for transferring heat from condensing steam to inlet water is provided in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 727 106 entitled ENERGY EFFICIENT DISTILLATION SYSTEM filed Oct. 14 2005 and 60 748 496 of the same title filed Dec. 7 2005 and PCT application No PCT US2006 040553 filed Oct. 16 2006 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

