---

title: Updating data on a remote device
abstract: Systems and methods, including computer software products, for updating data on a remote device involve defining multiple channels on a remote device, where each channel is associated with a predetermined type of content. Content updates for the channels are automatically delivered to the remote device, and an update frequency is identified for each channel. A most frequent update frequency among the multiple channels defined on the remote device is determined, and updates to the channels are requested according to the most frequent update frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868613&OS=08868613&RS=08868613
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08868613
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071126
---
The present disclosure relates to updating data in computer systems in general and more specifically relates to updating data in mobile information systems. In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Many different types of content are provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments and the content may need to be refreshed or updated at different points in time. Sometimes updates are pulled from a server to a client meaning content is sent to and stored on the mobile device when requested by a user of the mobile device. Sometimes updates are pushed from a server to a client meaning content is sent to and stored on the mobile device even when the update has not been requested by the mobile device.

This specification describes technologies relating to memory allocation in a mobile or other remote device.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes defining multiple channels on a remote device for which each channel is associated with a predetermined type of content. Content updates for the channels are automatically delivered to the remote device and an update frequency for each channel is identified. A most frequent update frequency among the multiple channels defined on the remote device is determined and updates to the multiple channels are requested according to the most frequent update frequency. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The update frequency for at least one channel is automatically adjusted based on the content. Updates to the channels are requested by sending an update request to a remote server according to the most frequent update frequency. A next update time corresponding to the most frequent update frequency is identified and a message is received at the remote device to send an update request for at least one channel before the next update time. The content updates are automatically delivered to the remote device in response to automatically sending the update request according to the most frequent update frequency. The multiple channels are selected from a plurality of available channels and the multiple channels are defined on the remote device by registering the remote device to receive content updates for each of the multiple channels. A timestamp is provided for each of the channels and the timestamp identifies a most recent update to the channel. A determination of whether content updates are available for each of the channels is based on the timestamp. Multiple update frequencies for at least one of the channels is identified and each of the multiple update frequencies corresponds to a different condition. The most frequent update frequency is modified or updated based on the identified update frequencies. The content updates can be adapted for storage in a data storage on the mobile device for selective retrieval by a user of the mobile device. New content can be received from an external source and a content update for at least one channel can be generated based on the new content.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Content provided to a mobile device in a mobile information system may be efficiently updated. Furthermore an update frequency or an update time may be determined based on the content provided in the update and or a number of other factors.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

When a computer system such as a mobile information system is configured to provide content to a user device such as a mobile device the computer system may update or refresh data on the user device. In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. Third party content providers may also register or contract with the wireless service provider to provide various types of content to subscribers over a network such as the Internet via the service provider. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Content provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments are sometimes delivered in executable file formats such as the precisely described SWF small web format binary vector graphics format. SWF provides a compact TAG based easily extendible format that supports streaming bitmap and vector graphics and scripting. Content may include other data or files such as a feature film an executable software update or a software extension.

In some implementations wireless service providers deliver content to the mobile devices of their subscribers in the form of information channels. Each information channel may originate with the wireless service provider or may originate with third party content providers. When a subscriber subscribes to a particular information channel the wireless service provider delivers content associated with that information channel to the subscriber s mobile device. The content may be delivered as a channel feed to a file system i.e. a feed store located on the mobile device. The feed store may be logically divided into separate compartments or memory allocations with each channel assigned its own compartment on a static or dynamic basis. Periodically the wireless service provider may deliver channel content updates to the mobile device. The updates may be provided according to a predetermined schedule in response to a request from the mobile device in response to an availability of updates at the content provider in response to an expiration or consumption e.g. viewing of content previously delivered to the mobile device or in some other way. Because the channel content is stored locally on the mobile device and frequently updated the subscriber is usually able to access the channel without having to wait for channel content or content updates to be delivered over the network. The channel content may be automatically delivered to the mobile device in the background i.e. without a specific user request and or while the mobile device is otherwise idle or being used to view other channels or perform other operations .

For example a wireless service provider may offer several different information channels to its subscribers. Some information channels may be freely available to all subscribers while other information channels may require premium subscriber status. The content of some information channels may originate with the wireless service provider. The content of other information channels may originate with third parties that have registered with the service provider. The content of still other information channels may originate with other sources. The offered information channels may include a premium news channel. If a subscriber has subscribed to the premium news channel then the wireless service provider may establish a channel feed to periodically or sporadically deliver content from the premium news channel to the feed store located on the subscriber s mobile device. When the subscriber accesses the premium news channel processes on the mobile device retrieve the content from the feed store. Even if the subscriber rarely or even never accesses the premium news channel the channel feed may provide for regular updates of channel content in the feed store based for example on an expiration of content and or an availability of new content.

An update frequency for updating channel content may be associated with each channel. While each channel may have its own associated update frequency the mobile information system may determine a single time interval for updating all channels on a particular mobile system. The single time interval for updating all channels may be based on the update frequencies of all channels subscribed to by the mobile device. For example the most frequent update frequency of all of the subscribed channels may be used to determine a time or time intervals at which to update all channels on the mobile device. In some instances content may not be updated at the nominal update time or update time interval for example due to an interruption in network connectivity or power loss at the nominal update time. In such an instance content may be updated at a different time for example when the mobile device reestablishes connectivity. An update time interval can be equivalently discussed as an update frequency. An interval is a quantity with units of time such as seconds or hours. A frequency is a quantity with units of inverse time such as per hour or per second i.e. Hertz . For the purposes of this disclosure the terms update frequency and update interval may be used interchangeably and it will be understood that update frequency refers to a number of updates per unit time and update interval refers to an amount of time between updates.

The update frequency for a given channel and or the update time interval for updating all channel content on a mobile device may be determined by a content provider a server the mobile device or any other entity included in the mobile information system. The update frequency for a given channel and or the update time interval for updating all channel content on a mobile device may be determined based on update or channel content user preferences server or network volume network bandwidth update availability and or other factors such as time of day. For example an update frequency may be based on an identification of an update type size and or data format or based on the actual content of an update. In some implementations the server may determine the update interval or update time for updating all data on a mobile device. All channel data may be updated at once for example in the background allowing a user to later browse the data without having to wait for updates. A content update interval may depend on content allowing the data stored on a mobile device to be updated more frequently at times when the updates are more frequently available and or relevant. For example a channel Stock Quotes may have no updates during certain hours of the evening and or night so a long update interval e.g. 10 hours may be assigned to the channel Stock Quotes during the evening and or night hours. During business hours however the update interval for the channel Stock Quotes much shorter e.g. 300 seconds according to for example user preferences or content provider recommendations.

Channel content may be in the form of text images vector graphics bitmaps frame based animation video or in any other format supported by the mobile information system and may include executable scripts or other sequences of instructions. Depending on the format of the channel content an application running on the mobile device such as a media player or other type of media player component may be invoked to run the script execute the instructions or otherwise display the content. One example of such a mobile information system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 791 298 filed Mar. 1 2004 and entitled MOBILE RICH MEDIA INFORMATION SYSTEMS the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

At a high level server system may retrieve information from content providers organize the retrieved information along with some or all of any associated memory allocations into individual information channel feeds and deliver the information channel feeds to client . Client may then store the information channel feeds in feed store . In addition to the dynamic channel feeds received from server system feed store may also contain one or more static feeds . Static feed content and associated permissions may be preloaded on mobile device instead of delivered by server system . In addition to providing information channel feeds may also be used to provide services such as a home page user interface calendar user interface and services or other user interfaces or specialized application services.

In some implementations a content provider may recommend an update frequency for retrieving updated content for a channel originated by the content provider . The recommended update frequency may be sent to the server or included in the channel content for example in the metadata . A recommended update frequency for a channel may be recommended by content provider based on channel content. For example during times that the channel will have frequently updated content the service provider may recommend a high update frequency and when the channel content will be updated infrequently the service provider may recommend a low update frequency. Furthermore an update frequency may be automatically adjusted based on content.

When a subscriber attempts to access a particular information channel for example channel B client may retrieve channel B content and channel B metadata from feed store . Depending on the format of channel B content client may provide channel B content to media player component . In some implementations channel B content is a SWF file and media player component is an Adobe Flash based media player component that provides media player functionality. Client and media player component may form two parts of a single virtual machine running on mobile device . The virtual machine may run on a device platform . Client and media player component may then be programmed to run on the virtual machine.

In some implementations the functionality of media player component may be extended. Such an extension may be used to expand the functionality of media player component such as by providing support for additional commands or services. For example a service provider may wish to provide channel content that displays or otherwise accesses or manipulates data from local data such as a call log. The service provider may develop a custom command or instruction that can be provided in the channel feed and stored in feed store . Such a command may be unrecognized by unextended media player component and client . The service provider may then install a custom extension on mobile device that recognizes and performs the custom command or instruction effectively increasing the number of commands or instructions recognized by media player component . The extension may be implemented through an application programming interface API supported by the client which defines certain types of messages that can be passed between the client and the extension. In another example a third party content provider may develop a custom command or instruction to perform some other activity. An extension may be a software module that is distributed preinstalled on mobile device or downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network .

Client provides a framework for displaying and managing content received on mobile device including content received from server system . Client may be responsible for the caching of received content for communication with server system and for various other tasks. Client may manage subscriber input and memory devices and . In addition client may manage security features that protect the privacy of subscribers and content and prevent unauthorized parties from interfering with the service. In some implementations client is distributed preinstalled on mobile device while in other implementations client or an update to client is downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network .

Client may access media player component to render a user interface and content and to perform scripting operations. In some implementations media player component is a media player that supports vector graphics bitmaps and frame based animation as well as text input and dynamic text. Media player component may be able to process files such as SWF files in which content providers use native device fonts or embed arbitrary fonts. Media player component may also support scripting integration with mobile device capabilities including keypad navigation button presses notification messaging and media playback as well as integration with general mobile device operating system functionality. This enables client to be integrated with other mobile device applications and functionalities. Scripting may be accomplished with ActionScript or any other suitable scripting language supported by media player component .

Client may be configured to interact with mobile device s underlying features and applications through a set of scriptable commands. In some implementations client may interact with native functions of the mobile device by interfacing with a platform of the mobile device . Such commands may enable channel content to retrieve and set subscriber preferences provide time and date information from the host environment or launch external applications such as a browser or media player. In some implementations upon launching an external application the subscriber is instantly transferred to that application. Client may maintain the state of the user interface so that the subscriber can return to the same screen of client from which the external application was launched creating a perception of an integrated experience.

Mobile device may have a fully customizable user interface design through feed store that consists of individual Flash elements i.e. SWF files independent of client s core functionality. In some implementations the SWF files enable subscribers to use mobile device s soft keys to control navigation and client s meta functions such as setting preferences. Feed store may be updated over wireless network and may use an asynchronous communication protocol that updates all content through a background delivery mechanism that is transparent to subscribers. This enables subscribers to continue browsing one information channel for example channel B while a different information channel is updated in the background. Subscribers can also change their preferences when offline the transaction based client server protocol may ensure that such requests will be fulfilled the next time client connects to server system . Communications between client and server system may be facilitated through libraries native to platform . Platform represents the device dependent operating system running on mobile device . Example implementations of platform are BREW OS Symbian OS BlackBerry OS Windows Mobile OS Palm OS Linux Windows XP Mac OS and the like.

In some implementations server or client may be configured to perform one or more tasks to determine a time or a time interval for updating data on the mobile device . For example server or client may determine an update frequency for one or more channels based on user preferences timestamps an update log for the mobile device channel content or others. A timestamp may indicate when a most recent update was received by the mobile device and the timestamp may also indicate that the most recent update was only partially fulfilled for example due to a loss of connectivity. In some implementations the server may determine an update interval or an update time based on the timestamp for example by comparing the timestamp to an update version. Client may accept an update interval recommended by a content provider or determined by a component of server . Server or client may further determine a smallest update interval i.e. a most frequent or highest update frequency among the channels to which the mobile device subscribes. The smallest update interval may be used to determine a time for the client to request updates from server . In general server or client may identify a specific time or an update time interval for updating any or all channels on mobile device based on any type of relevant information. Client may also request updates from server over wireless network at an identified update time or at identified update intervals.

When running in background mode client may minimize battery usage while periodically receiving updates from server system . In some implementations subscribers can choose between a number of battery conserving update options for example always update update only when battery strength is above a certain level and never update. If supported by platform different applications may be running simultaneously. In such cases client may minimize its use of memory resources when other applications are active. For example client may have a hibernate mode in which it consumes only a fraction of its normal operating memory. Client may also be configured to limit the number of information channels to which a subscriber may subscribe. When this limit is reached client may require a subscriber to remove an information channel before a new information channel may be added. Client may also support Short Message Service SMS signaling allowing server system to awaken client and initiate an immediate content update in the case of important events such as breaking news or an immediate retraction of inappropriate content.

Server system may include clusters of feed servers and data source servers as well as report server . Report server may allow service providers to monitor server activities and network traffic and may be integrated with other enterprise reporting solutions. The client server architecture of system may use clustering technology to help ensure performance reliability and scalability while minimizing deployment complexities through a flexible integration framework. Server system may aggregate content from external content providers received over the Internet and organize the content into channel content feeds. Server system may filter content feeds based on user preferences mobile device types and access controls. Server system may deliver the content feeds to client over wireless network . Data source servers may retrieve normalize and aggregate content from the web servers of content providers may transform various formats of retrieved content for example into a common XML format and may pass the content on to feed servers for delivery to client . Retrievals may be scheduled at predetermined intervals at which times only differential updates may be collected. Data source servers may be configured to handle content feeds in various formats e.g. RSS Atom XML etc. . Content feeds may support embedded content types including for example text images and SWF files.

Using system service providers may be able to provide targeted data service offerings to subscribers. Service providers may be able to promote specific content bundles to certain segments such as business people teens casual users and others. Service providers may be able to make specific content bundles available to all subscribers in for example a channel guide allowing subscribers to select specific content bundles. To increase network efficiency server system may operate in an occasionally connected data model and may use a communication protocol that enables differential updates minimizing unnecessary exchanges of data between server system and client . For example in the case of a weather channel only an update to the temperature may be required while all other content such as images video or forecasts remains the same.

Server system may be equipped with an administrator providing the functionality required to manage the servers including channel administration subscriber administration and system management. Using administrator service providers can check for example the amount of network traffic each channel generates deactivate poorly performing channels and dynamically provision modify or remove channels among other tasks. In some implementations administrator may be configured to perform on or more tasks to determine a time interval for updating data on mobile device . To the extent administrator is implemented as one or more partially or fully automated processes administrator may be incorporated into the server . For example administrator may identify an update frequency for one or more channels or administrator may accept a recommended update interval from a content provider or from mobile device . Administrator may further determine a smallest update interval among the channels to which the mobile device subscribes. The administrator may cause the server to send to mobile device an identification of a single update interval for all channels to which the mobile device subscribes. The single update interval may be the shortest update interval identified by the administrator . In general administrator may identify an update interval for a mobile device based on any type of relevant information. An update interval may be determined by administrator based on for example timestamps for the channels indicating a most recent update time an update log for the mobile device channel content or others.

In some embodiments of the system content providers may recommend update frequencies for channels and include an identification of the recommended update frequency in data sent to server . Server may receive data e.g. from client or from internet identifying a list of channels to which mobile device subscribes. Server may then identify the channel on the subscription list with the highest or most frequent recommended update frequency. Administrator may use the highest recommended update frequency to determine an update interval for all channel content on the mobile device . An identification of the update interval determined by administrator may be included in data transmitted to client . Client may then determine a time at which to request updates from server based on the transmitted identification. At the determined time client may send a request to server for updates. In response to the request server may send updates to client .

When client receives a content update from server system via the channel feed client stores both the channel content and the metadata associated with the content in feed store . For example when client receives a content update for Channel B client updates Channel B feed in feed store . Both Channel B content and the associated Channel B metadata are stored. Channel B feed may be updated multiple times before a subscriber ever accesses it. When a subscriber accesses Channel B through the mobile device user interface client may retrieve Channel B content e.g. a SWF file and Channel B metadata and provide both to media player component e.g. a media player .

Information included in table may be stored as data located on external server server or on mobile device and the data may in some implementations be remotely accessible for example by internet or wireless network . Data included on mobile device or on server may comprise pointers or links to locations in local or remote memory where the update information included in table may be stored. A client or server may directly read the update interval data or the update interval data may be received from a remote source. Table is only intended to illustrate examples of channel names and corresponding update intervals. Table does not illustrate the breadth of channel content or update intervals that may be used in the system . Indeed a wide variety of channel content may be implemented and update intervals may be much longer e.g. 1 millisecond or much shorter than any of the values listed in table . Table may be incorporated into the feed store or local data described in .

Different aspects of process may be performed by different components of system in various implementations. For example some aspects may be implemented by either a client or a server as appropriate in the particular implementation. Some aspects may be implemented collaboratively between components for example over wireless network or internet . Some examples are given as to where certain aspects may be implemented but the examples are not intended to serve as an exhaustive list of possibilities. Indeed it is contemplated that process may be implemented by a variety of elements operating in a variety locations either collaboratively or in isolation.

At a plurality of channels are defined. Multiple available channels may be offered by a wireless service provider or by a third party service provider. Mobile devices may then subscribe to or register to receive channel updates for some or possibly all of the available channels. The plurality of channels may be defined by a remote server or by the mobile device itself. For example the channels may be defined by storing data on the mobile device identifying which channels the mobile device subscribes to and or by allocating memory on the mobile device for each of the plurality of channels. Each channel may be adapted to receive a predetermined type of content such that the content may be accessed on the mobile device. For example the channels News and Baseball Scores may be defined at . Content for channels may be received for example by client from server over wireless network . The content may include media or multimedia data. Additionally the content may include data defining user interfaces menus channel features and the like. Channel content may be in a variety of formats such as text images vector graphics bitmaps frame based animation video or in any other format. Channel content may further include executable scripts or other sequences of instructions. The channel content may be read by a media player component and displayed or otherwise presented on the mobile device. As a specific example the channel Baseball Scores may receive text data identifying all of the Major League Baseball scores for a certain day. Channel data may include metadata that defines an update frequency for the channel.

At an update interval for each channel is identified. The update interval for a channel may be determined by a content provider or a server associated with the wireless service provider. The update interval for one channel may be determined based upon the update interval for a different channel or upon a previous update interval for the same or a different channel. An update interval for a channel may be identified in update data or metadata previously sent from the server to the client . An update interval may be based on a timestamp or other data describing when an update was previously received transmitted or generated. Typically different channels may have different update frequencies.

At the shortest update interval is determined. The shortest update interval may be determined by a content provider a server or a mobile device. In some implementations the server may determine the shortest update interval and send an identification of the shortest update interval to the mobile device. In other implementations update intervals other than the subscribed channel update intervals may be considered in determining the shortest update interval. For example a user preferred update interval may be considered in determining the shortest update interval. In other implementations network bandwidth or network volume may be considered in determining the shortest update interval.

At a time to retrieve updates based on the determined update interval may be identified. The time to retrieve updates may be identified by a content provider a server or a mobile device. In some implementations the server may determine the time to retrieve updates and the server may send an identification of the time to retrieve updates to the mobile device. In other implementations the mobile device may identify the update time based on a shortest update interval sent from the server. Generally the time to retrieve updates may be calculated for example by the client device or the server by adding the amount of time corresponding to the shortest update interval to the current time or to the time of a previous update time.

At channels are updated at the identified time. Updating channels may include transmitting data over wireless network from server to client to update data in the feed store of mobile device . Updating channels may also include updating data in the feed servers of server . After the channels are updated the process may return to operation . Although it is not illustrated in the flow chart there may be circumstances where the process needs to restart at . For example if a user decides to change channel subscriptions process may restart at .

Message exchange begins at where client sends an identification of channel subscriptions to server . At client receives an identification of an update interval. At client sends a request for updates to server . At client receives update data from the server .

In some implementations of exchange before the client sends a request for updates at the client may receive from the server a new update interval not illustrated . For example if an update interval of 2 hours was received at the client may receive a new update interval of 10 seconds before the client sends the request for update at . The new update interval may be sent in various situations for example in the case that content provider or server identifies a high priority or unexpected update that needs to be sent to client before the next scheduled update. Alternatively in the case of high priority data instead of sending a new update interval an instruction to request either an immediate update or an update sooner than the next scheduled update time may be sent to the client .

The preceding flowcharts and accompanying descriptions illustrate example methods. It will be understood that these methods are for illustration purposes only and that the described or similar techniques may be performed at any appropriate time including concurrently individually or in combination. In addition many of the steps in these flowcharts may take place simultaneously and or in different orders than as shown. Moreover methods may be used with additional steps fewer steps and or different steps so long as the methods remain appropriate.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter or a combination of one or more of them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. The described techniques may be implemented in non mobile environments e.g. using wire line communications such as a cable connection with a non mobile client such as a set top box .

