---

title: Progressively dampened hydraulic buffer system
abstract: A buffering, energy absorbing, system has tapered grooves within either the inner surface of a cylindrical main body or along the sides of a piston head to allow fluid flow, where the tapered grooves increasingly or decreasingly restrict the flow of fluid between the inside of the main body and an accumulator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08448760&OS=08448760&RS=08448760
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08448760
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070830
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This present invention relates to a hydraulic buffering system or energy absorbing system using grooves to provide varying restriction flow of fluid.

Progressive buffers are known that have an outer cylinder and inner cylinder with the inner cylinder attached to the center of the outer cylinder. The inner cylinder has a pattern of holes drilled from the top of the cylinder body to the bottom. As a piston head travels past the hole pattern fluid is forced though the holes. The fluid then travels between the inner and outer cylinder to an accumulation area on the backside of the piston. Transit of the piston decreases the number of holes which limits the rate that fluid can pass into the accumulator to create the buffer system.

Also known are cone shaped single cylinder buffers having both the cylinder and the piston tapered. As the piston travels down the cylinder in these systems fluid is forced around the outside diameter of the piston. The further the piston travels down the cylinder the more the area around the piston head decreases causing an increase in resistance to the movement of the piston. Minor changes in the diameter of the cylinder and the piston create large changes in amount of area in which the flow may pass from the front of the piston head to the accumulation area causing problems of controlling tolerances in these systems and problems of maintaining slope locations.

There is a need for improved dampened hydraulic buffering systems. The present invention addresses this and other needs.

The present invention includes a buffering system having a cylindrical main body and a piston rod assembly where either the inner surface of the main body or piston head of the piston rod assembly forms at least one groove along the length therein wherein the at least one formed groove is capable of providing increasingly or decreasingly restricted flow of fluid out of the main body. The piston rod assembly has a seal which forces the fluid to travel though the grooves only. The piston rod assembly is capable of movement along the inner surface within the main body and an accumulator capable of receiving fluid from and communicating fluid into the formed grooves within the inner surface of the main body. These formed grooves may include a constant taper stepped taper or combinations of the constant taper and stepped taper with the stepped taper preferred for buffering systems designed to provide precise damping in a desired amount of piston travel.

The present invention also includes a method for damping hydraulic buffering systems comprising one or more tapered grooves solely within the piston head and a cylindrical shoulder in the main body wherein as the piston head travels into the main body the tapered groove passes the shoulder which creates a decrease in area through which the fluid may pass.

The present invention also includes a method for damping hydraulic buffering systems comprising the steps of providing an energy absorbing system having a cylindrical main body having an inner surface and piston head assembly having a piston head wherein one of the inner surface or piston head forms at least one groove therein that is capable of providing increasingly or decreasingly restricted flow of fluid out of the main body the piston rod assembly capable of movement along the inner surface within the main body and an accumulator capable of receiving fluid from and communicating fluid into the formed grooves and moving the piston rod assembly along the length of the main body wherein the rate of movement of the piston rod assembly decreases as the piston rod assembly transits along the length of the main body.

As seen in side view illustration in the hydraulic buffering system of the present invention includes a cylindrical main body having an inner surface forming at least one groove therein. Within the main body a piston rod assembly is integrated in a manner to permit a piston rod to move along the inner surface within the main body . An accumulator receives the fluid from and communicates the fluid into the formed grooves within the inner surface of the main body . For the purposes of the present invention fluids useful herein include gases such as ambient air specialized gases and or inert gases such as argon or nitrogen with inert gases preferred.

Preferably the main body of the present invention contains the piston rod assembly formed together with hydraulic accumulators for use in gun systems . Preferably the accumulator is at least partially surrounded by the outer cylindrical wall of the main body . Most preferably the accumulator is totally encased within the main body . With the accumulator integrated into the main body the outer diameter of the accumulator decreases as the length of cylinder wall covered increases. As such the main body typically comprises a single cylinder configuration with the accumulator is preferably located within a portion of the main body typically with the inner surface of the main body forming the walls of the accumulator .

The accumulator operates in conjunction with the piston rod assembly with the piston rod slowing as it reaches the end of travel during an extension of the hydraulic cylinder. The tapered grooves provide a cushioning of the movement of the piston rod that minimizes the risk of shock loading from the piston rod suddenly slamming into the end wall of the accumulator at the end of stroke of the piston rod . Depending on the configuration and therefore the methodology of the hydraulic buffering system the tapered grooves may increase the rate of fluid flow or may decrease the rate of fluid flow to slow the rate of transit of the piston rod .

The piston rod assembly may further incorporate a sealing element O ring for sealing the area between the piston rod assembly and the inner surface of the main body . The piston rod generally includes a piston ring disk outfitted with the O ring . The O ring slidably seals the interfaces between the cylinder inner surface of the main body and the piston ring disk . Preferred compositions of the O ring include polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or other similar compositions.

Referring to the groove or grooves formed within the inner surface provides increasingly or decreasingly restricted flow of fluid out of the main body . As further seen in the end view illustration of the hydraulic buffering system of and the detailed view of the one or more grooves are present in the inner surface of the main body . In shows a groove in shows a piston and in shows a groove like of . The hydraulic buffering system preferably includes a plurality of grooves such as from about two grooves to about eight grooves more preferably from about four grooves to about six grooves and most preferably four grooves. The grooves are progressively tapered along the length of the main body and preferably end prior to reaching the end of the main body .

The progressively tapered grooves may become increasingly less deep or increase in depth along the length of the main body and or may become increasingly less wide along the length of the main body . Preferably the grooves become increasingly less wide along the length of the main body and more preferably the grooves become both increasingly less wide and less deep along the length of the main body . Representative tapering of the grooves includes for example without limitation constant slopes for width and or depth originating at a space of of an inch and tapering to an end point at a distant of two feet and other similar configurations. The progressively tapered grooves terminate at a location along the length of the main body where the piston rod ceases movement within the main body . This termination point is generally prior to the end of the main body to prohibit physical contact of the piston rod assembly with the main body as physical contact between the piston rod assembly and main body greatly increases the chance of catastrophic failure of the buffering system . Representative lengths of the tapered grooves include for example without limitation from about 30 of the length of the inner surface of the main body to about 90 more preferably from about 50 to about 85 and most preferably from about 65 to about 85 . The tapered grooves preferably end within the inner surface of the main body at least ths of an inch away from the end of main body with representative distances being about inch inch 1 inch and other such appropriate distances in between and outside of determinable by one skilled in the art of gun buffering systems.

Referring again to as the piston rod progresses along the length of the main body the volume of hydraulic fluid becomes increasingly restricted as the tapered grooves diminish the amount of available hydraulic fluid to transit into the accumulator because of the decreased area of the grooves . In operation the accumulator is filled with a hydraulic fluid. The piston rod assembly becomes extended as hydraulic fluid enters the main body under sufficient pressure through the tapered grooves . As the hydraulic cylinder assembly extends the piston rod moves toward the accumulator and the pressure decreases as stored energy is released. The hydraulic cylinder assembly is retracted as hydraulic fluid enters the main body under sufficient pressure. As the piston rod retracts the hydraulic fluid enters into the main body . As the piston rod nears the end of travel toward the end of the main body a progressive restriction of the opening slows the flow of hydraulic fluid and creates a cushioning effect by providing a greater resistance to movement of the piston rod and thus slowing the travel rate of the piston rod as it nears the end wall of the cylindrical main body . This arrangement reduces the risk of shock loading from the piston rod colliding into the end wall of the main body .

As seen in grooves formed along the length of the piston head provide fluid flow control within the buffering system . When present on the piston head additional grooves are not present in the inner surface of the main body. The grooves extend the full length of the piston head and are tapered by width and or depth along a given direction.

As seen in in one preferred embodiment the grooves are tapered in a stepped configuration to provide distinct restrictions of fluid flow at given locations of movement of the piston head along the length of the inner surface of the main body. In this embodiment the hydraulic buffering system includes one or more tapered grooves within the piston head which are absent from the inner surface of the main body and a cylindrical shoulder in the main body . As the piston head travels into the main body the tapered groove passes the shoulder which creates a decrease in area shown at through which the fluid may pass. As seen in a maximum flow restriction area is created and a minimum restriction area is shown in . These stepped grooves are formed in configurations to maximize the benefit of the fluid flow restriction at these given locations with the proper size and location of the steps determinable by those skilled in the art for a particular purpose and or effect.

The hydraulic buffering system is particularly useful in gun firing systems providing significant energy absorbing buffering capability. In operation the hydraulic buffering system dampens the recoil of a gun with the firing of a projectile. With the firing of the projectile the piston rod moves along the length of the main body and becomes increasingly impeded with a decreasing rate of movement as the piston rod assembly transits along the length of the main body. Impedance occurs with restricted flow of fluid through the tapered area of the grooves . Operation of the hydraulic buffering system typically includes the step of stopping the movement of the piston rod once the piston rod transits to a length of the main body not forming grooves in fluid communication with the accumulator .

A 5 inch gun buffer system has a tapered groove buffering system with 4 tapered grooves extending 1.00 inches along the length of the main body of the buffering system. The tapered grooves end 4.00 inches from the end of the main body. The grooves are tapered along the width of the grooves having a tapered slope of 4 Degrees.

A 12 inch gun buffer system has a tapered groove buffering system with 2 tapered grooves extending 6 inches along the length of the main body of the buffering system. The tapered grooves end 6 inches from the end of the main body. The grooves are tapered along the depth of the grooves having a tapered slope of 0 degrees 30 minutes.

A four inch gun system has a tapered groove buffering system with 2 tapered grooves extending 0.625 inches along the length of the main body of the buffering system. The tapered grooves end 4.35 inches from the end of the main body. The grooves are tapered along the width of the grooves having a tapered slope of 5 degrees.

A recoil buffer system has either a set of a tapered grooves or as few as one in the piston head tapered grooves extending along its entire length or a specified length as required for a particular application for absorbing energy.

The foregoing summary description and examples of the present invention are not intended to be limiting but are only exemplary of the inventive features that are defined in the claims. Alternative materials and configurations as those described herein for the present invention may be used.

