---

title: Interactive content representations enabling content sharing
abstract: A system and method providing interactive content representations enabling content sharing are disclosed. In general, a content representation that is descriptive of content made accessible by a hosting user is presented in association with a content representation host representing the hosting user. The content representation host may be, for example, an avatar in a virtual environment, a custom webpage of the hosting user, an identifier of the hosting user in a peer-to-peer (P2P) network, an identifier of the hosting user in a mobile network, or the like. Based on the content representation, a viewing user can determine whether content of interest is accessible from the hosting user. The viewing user may interact with the content representation to further explore the content made accessible by the hosting user and, if desired, initiate transfer of at least some of the content to a client device associated with the viewing user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07849420&OS=07849420&RS=07849420
owner: Qurio Holdings, Inc.
number: 07849420
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070226
---
The present invention relates to a system and method enabling content sharing by interacting with content representations presented in association with a host.

There are many environments where users interact with each other and as part of the interaction share content. These environments include for example gaming virtual worlds online content sharing or social networking sites and the like. One issue with these environments is that shared content is not portrayed in a way that is intuitive for content sharing. Users must often dive deep into content folders or user profiles only to discover that the content is of no interest. Thus there is a need for a system and method for representing content shared or otherwise made available in such environments in a manner that enables users to intuitively identify other users having content of interest.

The present invention relates to interactive content representations enabling content sharing. In general a content representation that is descriptive of content made accessible by a hosting user is presented in association with a content representation host representing the hosting user. The content representation host may be for example an avatar in a virtual environment a custom webpage of the hosting user an identifier of the hosting user in a peer to peer P2P network an identifier of the hosting user in a mobile network or the like. Based on the content representation a viewing user is able to quickly and easily determine whether content of interest is accessible from the hosting user. If so the viewing user may interact with the content representation to further explore the content made accessible by the hosting user and if desired initiate transfer of at least some of the content to a client device associated with the viewing user.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The present invention relates to interactive content representations enabling content sharing. In general a content representation that is descriptive of content shared or otherwise made accessible by a hosting user is presented in association with a content representation host representing the hosting user. The content representation host may be for example an avatar in a virtual environment a custom webpage of the hosting user an identifier of the hosting user in a peer to peer P2P network an identifier of the hosting user in a mobile network or the like. Based on the content representation a viewing user is able to quickly and easily determine whether content of interest is accessible from the hosting user. If so the viewing user may interact with the content representation to further explore the content made accessible by the hosting user and if desired initiate transfer of at least some of the content to a client device associated with the viewing user.

In one embodiment the content representation host is an avatar representing the hosting user in a virtual environment. The virtual environment may be for example a virtual world such as SECOND LIFE or a virtual gaming environment such as a Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game MMORPG . In order to enable a viewing user to determine whether content of interest is made accessible by the hosting user one or more content representations descriptive of the content is presented in association with the avatar of the hosting user in the virtual environment. Each content representation may be implemented as a visual element or graphic presented alongside the avatar of the hosting user or implemented as a modification to the appearance of the avatar of the hosting user. If desired the viewing user may interact with the one or more content representations to navigate through a navigation tree of the hosting user to further explore the content made accessible by the hosting user. In one embodiment the navigation tree is a tree of content representations that describes the content made accessible by the hosting user more generally as the viewing user navigates up the navigation tree and more specifically as the viewing user navigates down the navigation tree. However the present invention is not limited thereto. The navigation tree may be any logical structure of content representations enabling a viewing user to browse content representations that are describing the content made accessible by the hosting user. The viewing user may further interact with the content representations to initiate transfer of content of interest to a client device of the viewing user.

Likewise a content representation is presented in association with the avatar of the viewing user in a view of the virtual environment presented to the hosting user where the content representation is descriptive of content made accessible by the viewing user. In this example the content representation is a graphic of a portable media player which indicates that audio content is made accessible by the viewing user.

While the example of illustrates an embodiment where the viewing user initiates the content transfer by dragging and dropping the content representation to the content representation the present invention is not limited thereto. For example the viewing user may alternatively initiate the content transfer by double clicking on the content representation by right clicking on the content representation or the like. Further the viewing user may be enabled to select a location to which the desired content is to be transferred and stored.

Further a content representation is presented as a status indicator for the content transfer. The viewing user may interact with the content representation in a manner similar to that described above in order to for example navigate through a number of content representations that are more generally or more specifically descriptive of the content transfer. For example the content representation is a Rock content representation thereby indicating that content from the Rock genre is being transferred. The viewing user may interact with the content representation to navigate to one or more content representations that are more specifically descriptive of the content being transferred. For example if content by the Rock group AC DC is being transferred the viewing user may interact with the content representation such that a content representation indicative of AC DC is presented. The viewing user may further interact with the content representation in order to for example stop the content transfer stop the transfer of specific content pause the content transfer or the like.

In general the system includes a central virtual environment VE server and database and a number of distributed VE servers through N. The VE server serves a number of client devices through Nhaving associated users through N. Likewise the VE server Nserves a number of client devices through Nhaving associated users through N. The central VE server and database manages user accounts and may also manage overall game logic and the like. The VE servers through Nmanage interactions and user events and provide a client specific view of the virtual environment to the client devices through Nand through N. The client devices through Nand through Nmay be for example personal computers mobile devices such as mobile telephones or Personal Digital Assistants PDAs game consoles or the like and generally include either a custom software application or a web browser enabling interaction with the VE servers through Nfor participation in the virtual environment.

Note that in an alternative embodiment the operation of the central VE server and database and optionally the VE servers through Nmay be distributed among the other devices in the system . For example the operation of the central VE server and database may be distributed among the VE servers through N. As another example the operation of the central VE server and database and the VE servers through Nmay be distributed among the client devices through Nand through N.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the users through Nand through Nare represented by avatars in the virtual environment. Further in order to enable for example the user to locate others of the users through Nand through Nthat are sharing or otherwise making accessible content of interest to the user the system effects presentation of content representations in association with the avatars of the users through Nand through N. The avatars are more generally referred to herein as content representation hosts. In addition or alternatively content representations may be associated with other virtual objects in the virtual environment such as storefronts in the virtual environment a virtual stereo of a user in the virtual environment or the like where the virtual objects may provide access to shared or otherwise available content.

The content representations are descriptive of content shared or otherwise made accessible by the users through Nand through Nfrom the client devices through Nand through N. The content may be audio content such as songs or music video content such as movies television programs or video clips pictures or the like. While this disclosure focuses on the aforementioned types of content the present invention is not limited thereto. The content may additionally or alternatively be any other type of digital content such as for example user profiles activities or interaction events in the virtual environment hobbies or the like.

The content representations may be indicative of for example content types such as music video picture or the like genres such as music genres movie genres or television program genres artists such as music artists actors or actresses time periods acoustic styles keywords or the like. In addition the content representations may be indicative of content quality quantity of content availability or accessibility copyright or Digital Rights Management DRM restrictions or the like or any combination thereof.

Note that the content made accessible by the users through Nand through Nis generally hosted by the client devices through Nand through N. However the content may alternatively be hosted by for example the central VE server and database one or more of the VE servers through N a third party server such as a server providing a centrally hosted content sharing service a P2P content sharing service or the like or any combination thereof.

In addition the system includes a content sharing function which may be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. In one embodiment the content sharing function is hosted by a third party server. Alternatively the content sharing function may be hosted by the central VE server and database or one or more of the VE servers through N. In either of these situations associated client functions may be incorporated into the client devices through Nand through Nto enable content sharing. As another alternative the content sharing function may be distributed among the client devices through Nand through N. As discussed below the content sharing function operates to effect transfer of content items from one device to another as directed by the VE servers through N.

The user preferences database stores user preferences for each of the users through Nand through N. The user preferences may include for example one or more preferred types of content one or more preferred genres such as one or more preferred music genres movie genres or television program genres one or more preferred time periods one or more other classifications of content one or more preferred artists such as one or more preferred music artists actors or actresses one or more preferred acoustic styles a preferred quality level or preferred range of quality levels one or more preferred availability or accessibility parameters such as a preferred connection speed or estimated download time a preferred quantity of content to be available from a host before a corresponding content representation is presented to the user and preferred DRM or copyright restriction parameters.

In addition the user preferences may include user preferences for configuring the system related to content discovery and transfer. More specifically the user preferences may include a navigation preference for the user where the navigation preference defines how the user desires to navigate through content representations describing content made accessible by a hosting user. For example when the user is a viewing user the user may desire that the navigation tree for the hosting user be formed according to genres and sub genres time periods acoustic styles or the like or any combination thereof.

The user preferences may also include interaction configuration parameters such as locations where content transferred to the user s client device are to be stored version s of content that are to be transferred to the user s client device content transfer parameters and buddy preferences. The version of content to be obtained may vary depending on content type encoding algorithm encoding parameters such as bit rate size DRM restrictions aspect ratio quality or the like. For a song the version may be for example the full version of the song or a preview of the song. For a picture the version may be for example a thumbnail version a screennail version or the full version of the picture. Note that different versions may desired for different groups of content within a content type. For example the user may desire to obtain the full version of songs from the Country genre but only previews of songs from the Rock genre. The content transfer parameters may define whether content transfers are to be performed depth first breadth first or randomly and how many items to obtain from each node in a hosting user s navigation tree. The buddy preferences define how the user would like to receive content obtained for the user by a buddy of the user. For example the user may desire that the buddy gather metadata only playlists desired versions of content items or the like and optionally that the buddy obtain authorization from the user before obtaining content for the user.

As for the databases and the VE content and rules database stores content and rules required for the operation of the virtual environment. The CR content and rules database stores graphics or information corresponding to the content representations and associated rules defining when the content representations are applicable. As discussed below in one embodiment the CR content and rules database is an ontology where each node in the ontology is a content descriptor and is associated with one or more content representations and one or more rules. The ontology including the nodes of the ontology the content representations associated with the nodes of the ontology and the rules for the nodes of the ontology may be defined by an operator of the system based on contributions from the users through Nand through N or the like or any combination thereof. Note that while an ontology is discussed herein any similar data structure such as a linked list taxonomy or the like may be used.

The events database stores incoming user events from the client devices through Nand through N. The user events may be any user event permitted in the virtual environment. For example the user event may be related to movement of the user s avatar within the virtual environment or entry of the avatar into the virtual environment interaction with a content representation initiation of a content transfer configuration of a content transfer or the like.

The VE engine may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. In general the VE engine operates to provide a client specific view of the virtual environment to each of the client devices through Nand through Nbased on user events received from the client devices through Nand through N. The VE engine includes a logic server an environment generation engine and a content representation CR engine . Using the VE content and rules database the logic server and the environment generation engine operate to process user events from the client devices through Nand through Nand provide client specific views of the virtual environment to the client devices through Nand through N. The CR engine interacts with the logic server and the environment generation engine to effect presentation of content representations within the virtual environment according to the present invention respond to user interactions with content representations and effect content transfers via the content sharing function .

At this point the CR engine generates a navigation tree for the hosting user step . The navigation tree is a tree of content representations that is descriptive of the content shared or otherwise made accessible by the hosting user . In one embodiment the navigation tree is a tree of content representations that describes the content made accessible by the hosting user more generally as the viewing user navigates up the navigation tree and more specifically as the viewing user navigates down the navigation tree. For example a first level of the navigation tree may include a content representation indicative of a content type such as audio a second level of the navigation tree may be content representations indicative of genres or other classifications of the content where each content representation in the second level is related to the content representation of the content representation in the first level and a third level of the navigation tree may be content representations indicative of artists where each content representation in the third level is related to one or more of the content representations in the second level. While this example has three levels the navigation tree may have any number of levels.

Again while the navigation tree is generally discussed herein as being a tree like structure the present invention is not limited thereto. The navigation tree may be any type of logical structure enabling navigation of content representations that are descriptive of content made accessible by a hosting user. For example the navigation tree may correspond to an ontology or a portion of an ontology based on semantic relationships.

In one embodiment in order to generate the navigation tree the CR engine first identifies one or more applicable content representations for the content made accessible by the hosting user from a defined set of content representations stored in the CR content and rules database . More specifically the CR engine first processes the content metadata describing the content made available by the user based on the CR rules from the CR content and rules database to determine which content representations are applicable to the content made available by the user . The CR content and rules database may include an ontology providing a defined set of content representations. Each node in the ontology corresponds to a content descriptor such as for example a content type genre artist time period or the like. Each node has one or more associated content representations and one or more rules defining when the content representation s for the node are applicable. By comparing the content metadata to the rules the CR engine determines which nodes of the ontology and thus which content representations are applicable to the content made available by the hosting user . Again while an ontology is discussed herein any similar data structure such as a linked list taxonomy or the like may be used.

Before proceeding an exemplary ontology providing the defined set of content representations is illustrated in . Note that the exemplary ontology of is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. In this example the ontology includes a shared content node a music node a country node a rock node an AC DC node and the like. Each of the nodes has one or more associated content representations that are indicative of the corresponding node in the ontology. Using this ontology the content metadata for the user may be processed to determine which of the content representations are applicable to the content made available by the user . For example if the content metadata for the user includes metadata for shared music from the Country genre the rules for the nodes in the ontology may be defined such that the content representations for the shared content node the music node and the country node are all applicable to the content made available by the user . If the content metadata for the user also includes metadata for shared music from the Rock genre the rules for the nodes in the ontology may be defined such that the content representation for the rock node is also applicable to the content made available by the user . In order to determine which ontological nodes are applicable a scoring scheme may be used such as that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 359 632 entitled Methods Systems and Products for Characterizing Target Systems filed Feb. 22 2006 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 414 021 entitled Methods Systems and Products for Classifying Content Segments filed Apr. 28 2006 both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Note that the process of determining which content representations are applicable to the content made available by the user may occur in response to the user event or at some previous point in time. For example the CR engine may determine which content representations are applicable when the content metadata for the content made available by the user is first added to the content metadata database . The CR engine may then update the content representations periodically or in response to changes in the content metadata.

Returning to once the CR engine has identified the applicable content representations the CR engine may optionally filter the applicable content representations based on for example the user preferences of the viewing user . For example if the preferred genre of the user is Country and the applicable content representations include a country content representation and a rock content representation the CR engine may filter the applicable content representations such that only the country content representation is selected for the navigation tree of the hosting user provided for the viewing user . The applicable content representations may also be filtered based on whether the viewing user is authorized to obtain the corresponding content. Content representations for content that the viewing user is not authorized to obtain may be filtered from the applicable content representations. The applicable content representations may also be filtered based on available storage space at the client device of the viewing user . Other filtering criteria will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure and are to be considered within the scope of the present invention.

In addition or alternatively the user preferences may include a navigation preference of the user . The navigation preference identifies the manner in which the user desires to navigate through content representations for other users. For example the navigation preference may provide that the user desires to navigate by genres and sub genres or other classification schemes time period of release acoustic styles locations or the like or any combination thereof. As such if the navigation preference is set to genres and subgenres the CR engine may filter the applicable content representations to remove content representations for other classification schemes time periods acoustic styles and locations. However detailed content representations such as those for artists may not be filtered and may be used for low levels or the lowest level of the navigation tree. The user preferences may also include types of relationships that are of interest to the user. For example the user may be interested in related artists generally artists related either musically or socially to a particular artist or the like.

The CR engine then generates the navigation tree from the applicable content representations or optionally the filtered applicable content representations. For example if the applicable content representations are filtered based on the navigation preference of the user and the navigation preference is genres and sub genres then the CR engine may form a navigation tree having for example a content representation indicative of shared audio content as the first level of the navigation tree content representations indicative of genres as a second level of the navigation tree optionally content representations indicative of sub genres as one or more additional levels of the navigation tree and content representations indicative of artists as a bottom level of the navigation tree.

Once the navigation tree is generated the CR engine selects one or more of the content representations in the navigation tree to be presented in association with the avatar of the hosting user in the view of the virtual environment provided to the viewing user step . In one embodiment the one or more selected content representations are the content representations from one of the levels of the navigation tree. For example the CR engine may select the one or more content representations using a recommendation engine. The recommendation engine may consider criteria such as the user preferences of the viewing user the metadata describing content made accessible by the viewing user past activities of the viewing user the navigation history of the viewing user a play history of the viewing user or the like or any combination thereof.

As another example the CR engine may select the one or content representations based on a layering scheme such as that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 678 798 entitled LAYERED VISUALIZATION OF CONTENT REPRESENTATIONS filed Feb. 26 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In general according to the layering scheme the CR engine may select the one or more content representations based on a distance between the avatar of the viewing user and the avatar of the hosting user in the virtual environment. If the two avatars are far apart the CR engine may select the content representations from the top level or some high level of the navigation tree. If the two avatars are relatively close the CR engine may select the content representations from a lower level of the navigation tree. Note that others schemes may be used to select the content representations to present to the viewing user and the examples given above are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

The CR engine then provides the one or more selected content representations or information identifying the one or more selected content representations to the environment generation engine in order to effect presentation of the selected content representations in association with the avatar of the hosting user in the view of the virtual environment provided to the viewing user step . In response the environment generation engine generates the view of the virtual environment for the viewing user including the avatar of the hosting user and the one or more selected content representations and outputs the view to the client device of the viewing user steps and . The client view may include objects such as graphics and the like needed to form the client view or metadata or other information describing the objects and the locations of the objects to be presented in the client view.

In this example the logic server subsequently receives a navigation event from the client device step . The navigation event is a user event corresponding to interaction with the content representations presented in association with the avatar of the hosting user for purposes of navigating through the navigation tree of the hosting user . For example looking briefly at the navigation event may be an event generated when the viewing user selects the content representation associated with the hosting user in order to proceed down the navigation tree. In another embodiment an intelligent agent associated with the viewing user may generate events on behalf of the viewing user in order to navigate the navigation tree of the hosting user without direct interaction by the viewing user .

Note that in addition to or as an alternative to navigating through the navigation tree by clicking or otherwise selecting content representations the CR engine may use a layering scheme such as that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 678 798 to enable the viewing user to navigate through the navigation tree by controlling the distance between the avatar of the viewing user and the avatar of the hosting user in the virtual environment. As such the navigation event may be a user event related to or changing a distance between the two avatars in the virtual environment.

The logic server provides the navigation event to the CR engine step . Note that the navigation event may alternatively be provided directly to the CR engine . In response to the navigation event the CR engine selects the one or more content representations for the desired level of the navigation tree step . Again looking at if the viewing user desires to proceed down to the adjacent level in the navigation tree the CR engine selects the one or more content representations for the adjacent layer in the navigation tree which as illustrated in are a Country content representation and a Rock content representation . Note that if the navigation event is the selection of one of two or more content representations the CR engine selects the one or more content representations in the adjacent layer in the navigation tree that are related to the selected content representation. For example if the Country content representation and the Rock content representation are presented and the viewing user selects the Rock content representation the CR engine then selects the one or more content representations for the adjacent layer in the navigation tree related to or below the Rock content representation .

The CR engine then provides the one or more selected content representations or information identifying the one or more selected content representations to the environment generation engine in order to effect presentation of the selected content representations in association with the avatar of the hosting user in the view of the virtual environment provided to the viewing user step . In response the environment generation engine generates the view of the virtual environment for the viewing user and outputs the view to the client device of the viewing user steps and . The view provided to the client device of the viewing user includes the avatar of the hosting user the one or more selected content representations and optionally one or more navigation elements enabling the viewing user to proceed back up the navigation tree.

It should be noted that the viewing user may dynamically control the configuration of the navigation tree of the hosting user . More specifically as discussed above the applicable content representations that are descriptive of the content made accessible by hosting user may be filtered by the CR engine based on the navigation preferences or other user preferences of the viewing user during generation of the navigation tree. However as an example the viewing user may change the navigation preferences while navigating the navigation tree of the hosting user . In response the CR engine regenerates the navigation tree based on the new navigation preferences and proceeds accordingly. Also note that if the applicable content representations are filtered during generation of the navigation tree the viewing user may choose to expand the navigation tree to include all of the applicable content representations or to expand a particular branch of the navigation tree to include content representations that were originally filtered or removed from the navigation tree.

In this example the logic server subsequently receives a content transfer initiation event from the client device step . The content transfer initiation event may occur when the viewing user selects a content representation representing content of interest. For example the viewing user may drag and drop one of the content representations presented in association with the avatar of the hosting user representing content of interest to a content representation presented in association with the avatar of the viewing user . In response the logic server provides the content transfer initiation event to the CR engine step . Note that the content transfer initiation event may alternatively be provided directly to the CR engine .

While not illustrated at this point either the logic server or the CR engine may perform or initiate an authorization process to determine whether the viewing user is authorized to obtain content of interest from the hosting user to obtain the versions of the content of interest desired by the viewing user or the like. If authorization is not originally provided the viewing user may interact with the hosting user to request authorization. Similarly if purchase of the content is required an e commerce transaction may be initiated or performed before content transfer during content transfer or after content transfer in any manner known in the art.

Once content transfer is initiated the CR engine identifies one or more content items made accessible by the hosting user and represented by the selected content representation s to transfer to the client device of the viewing user step . In one embodiment the CR engine uses a recommendation engine to identify the content items to transfer to the client device of the viewing user . The recommendation engine may be part of the CR engine or for example a separate function of the VE engine . More specifically if for example the viewing user selects a Country content representation to initiate the content transfer the CR engine or more specifically the recommendation engine identifies one or more of the content items made accessible by the hosting user from the Country genre that are to be provided to the client device of the viewing user . The recommendation engine may select the content items based the user preferences of the viewing user such as preferred genres sub genres time periods artists or the like the content metadata describing the content made accessible by the viewing user a navigation history of the viewing user including information indicative of genres sub genres artists time periods or the like in which the viewing user has displayed an interest by navigating to corresponding content representations in the navigation tree of the hosting user and or navigation trees of other hosting users previous activities of the viewing user such as downloading or purchasing of content a play history of the viewing user identifying content previously or recently played by the viewing user or the like or any combination thereof. The details of the recommendation engine are not central to the present invention. As will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure any type of recommendation engine that is suitable for the present invention may be used.

Note that while a recommendation engine is discussed herein a wish list may be used in addition to or as an alternative to the recommendation engine. The wish list may identify a number of content items or types of content items of interest to the viewing user . Based on the wish list the VE engine may select content items to be transferred to the client device of the viewing user .

Once the content items to transfer to the client device of the viewing user are identified the CR engine generates a content transfer plan step . The content transfer plan is generally a list of content items defining an order in which the content items are to be transferred to the client device . The content transfer plan also includes information needed for the transfer of each content item such as a corresponding file name and location a version of the content item to obtain a location on the client device where the content item is to be stored and any security credentials such as a user name and or password needed to obtain the content. Regarding the security credentials the viewing user may alternatively be prompted to enter the security credentials. The content transfer plan may be stored in an Extensible Markup Language XML file or stored in memory. The content items in the content transfer plan may be ordered based on the user preferences of the viewing user . For example the user preferences may define whether content items are to be obtained depth first or breadth first where depth first and breath first are approaches to traversing content representations or corresponding ontological nodes below the selected content representation or corresponding ontological node. In addition or alternatively the content items in the content transfer plan may be ordered by the recommendation engine or based on scores or rankings assigned to the content items by the recommendation engine.

Once the content transfer plan is generated the CR engine interacts with the content sharing function to effect content transfer according to the content transfer plan step . More specifically in one embodiment the CR engine provides individual file transfer requests to the content sharing engine according to the content transfer plan via web services or similar technology. Note that content sharing function may allow for batch operations. The content sharing engine may expose an Application Programming Interface API that includes operations such as for example get file information start file transfer pause file transfer resume file transfer stop file transfer get file transfer status and the like.

Note that the CR engine may obtain or automatically receive feedback and may use the feedback to generate or restructure the content transfer plan. The feedback may include feedback from the content sharing engine including for example locations of the content items in the content transfer plan capabilities of the device s on which the content items are hosted such as bandwidth or connection speed of the device s file transfer histories information indicating whether the content items are currently cached by the content sharing function or associated device or the like. The feedback may additionally or alternatively include feedback regarding the destination of the transferred content which is preferably the client device of the viewing user . The feedback regarding the destination may include remaining storage space bandwidth or connection speed or the like.

In this example the logic server receives a configuration event during transfer of the content step . The configuration event is some event altering the content transfer or more specifically the content items to be transferred. For example the configuration event may be an event changing a confidence factor of the recommendation engine to be used when selecting the content items to be transferred. The confidence factor may be adjusted by the viewing user to control the amount of content to be transferred. By increasing the confidence factor the viewing user can decrease the amount of content to be transferred. By decreasing the confidence factor the viewing user can increase the amount of content to be transferred. The logic server provides the configuration event to the CR engine step . Note that the configuration event may alternatively be provided directly to the CR engine .

In response to the configuration event the CR engine identifies content items to be transferred to the client device of the viewing user and updates the content transfer plan in a manner similar to that described above steps and . The CR engine then interacts with the content sharing function to effect transfer of the content to the client device of the viewing user according to the content transfer plan step .

While not illustrated for clarity and ease of discussion the CR engine may provide additional or alternative features not discussed above. First while transfer of content items is discussed above the present invention is not limited thereto. Rather than transferring the content items the content transfer may transfer metadata describing content items playlists or the like and optionally information enabling subsequent download of the corresponding content items from one or more devices associated with the hosting user such as the client device from a third party service such as an e commerce or subscription based media service or the like.

Second the system may enable the viewing user to obtain content for other users on a buddy list of the viewing user . Assuming that the other users are visiting other areas of the virtual environment the ability of the users to acquire content of interest is greatly expanded. In operation when exploring the navigation tree of the hosting user the viewing user may be notified of content matching preferences of one or more of the users in his buddy list. Notification may occur by presenting visual elements or content representations for the other users in association with the avatar of the viewing user . The viewing user may then initiate transfer of content matching the preferences of one of the other users to the client device of the viewing user or the client device of the other user by for example dragging and dropping the content representation of the hosting user to the visual element or content representation of the other user. If the content is transferred to the client device of the viewing user the content may subsequently be transferred to the client device of the other user. Alternatively the content transfer may be initiated automatically. Again the content transfer may be the transfer of content items. Alternatively the content transfer may be the transfer of metadata playlists or the like and optionally including information enabling subsequent download of the corresponding content items from one or more devices associated with the hosting user such as the client device from a third party service such as an e commerce or subscription based media service or the like.

In another embodiment rather than notifying the viewing user of content of interest to one or more of his buddies the VE engine the client device or the viewing user may notify the buddies of the content. The buddies may then initiate transfer of the content metadata describing the content or the like if desired.

Third the CR engine may enable the viewing user to utilize the perspective of another user. For example the viewing user may choose to view the virtual environment and particularly the content representations from all hosting users or a particular hosting user from the perspective of another user such as for example the user . The viewing user may choose the perspective of the user by for example right clicking on the content representation presented in association with the avatar of the hosting user and selecting the user from a list of other users. As a result a corresponding event is provided to the CR engine and the CR engine generates the navigation tree for the hosting user based on the user preferences of the user rather than the user preferences of the user . As a result the navigation tree is formed as if the viewing user was in fact the user . The viewing user may then explore the navigation tree of the hosting user from the perspective of the user . As a result the viewing user may be presented with content representations that the viewing user would otherwise have not seen.

Fourth the users and may be enabled to move their avatars away from one another in the virtual environment during a content transfer. As such the users and are free to explore the virtual environment while the content transfer is taking place. In one embodiment in order to enable continued control of the content transfer the CR engine may effect presentation of a visual representation of the avatar of the hosting user and elements enabling configuration of the content transfer such as those shown in in the view of the viewing user when the avatar of the hosting user is no longer in the view of the viewing user . The representation of the avatar of the hosting user may enable the viewing user to interact with the hosting user for purposes of content sharing just as if the avatar of the hosting user were still in the view of the viewing user . In another embodiment the CR engine may effect presentation of a path or other visualization enabling the viewing user to locate the avatar of the hosting user in the virtual environment.

Fifth the CR engine may interact with the logic server and the environment generation engine to provide a third party view of interactions with a particular user. More specifically the CR engine may provide an interaction representation in the view of the virtual environment provided to the viewing user where the interaction representation is visually indicative of interactions between the hosting user and one or more other users. For example if numerous other users are interacting with the hosting user one or more interaction representations may be presented to provide an indication of the interactions and optionally the types of interactions. The interaction representation may indicate whether the other users are currently exploring the navigation tree of content representations for the hosting user participating in a content transfer with the hosting user participating in a chat session with the hosting user or the like.

Sixth the CR engine may store a current interaction state to allow users to continue an interaction from a point where the interaction was terminated due to for example system failures. Thus for example if a system failure occurs during a content transfer the CR engine may store a current interaction state such that the content transfer can resume at a later time. In addition the CR engine may store an audit trail of all prior interactions where the audit trail may be inspected by the users to search and report on any interactions that they initiated or in which they participated.

In addition content representations may be presented in association with other virtual objects in the virtual environment such as storefronts or the like. In this example a content representation is presented in association with a storefront. From the content representation the user can easily determine that music from the Country genre is available from for example a user represented by an avatar within the store an owner or operator of the store or the like. Again the user may interact with the content representation for content exploration and to initiate a content transfer if desired.

Thus returning to the viewing user may interact with the interaction content representation by for example double clicking on the interaction content representation . In response if the users represented by the avatars and are chatting the VE engine may effect presentation of the chat interaction content representation to the viewing user. The viewing user may then interact with the chat interaction content representation to view one or more interaction content representations that are descriptive of one or more topics of the chat session.

If the users represented by the avatars and are participating in a content transfer the VE engine may effect presentation of the content transfer interaction content representation to the viewing user. The viewing user may then interact with the content transfer interaction content representation to view one or more content representations descriptive of the content being transferred. Lastly if for example the user represented by the avatar is navigating the navigation tree of the user represented by the avatar the VE engine may effect presentation of the navigation interaction content representation to the viewing user.

While the discussion above focuses on the CR engine with respect to a virtual environment the present invention is not limited thereto. The CR engine should be viewed as an additive technology that may be implemented in any type of system where it is desirable to have content representations enabling users to easily determine whether content of interest is shared or otherwise made accessible by other users of the system and to enable the users to initiate transfer of content of interest to an associated client device. More specifically illustrates a system providing content representations and enabling content sharing according to one embodiment of the present invention. The system may be for example a system providing custom webpages for users such those provided by the MYSPACE website a Peer to Peer P2P content sharing network a mobile network such as a cellular network or a wireless ad hoc network formed using a local wireless standard such as one of the suite of IEEE 802.11 standards or the BLUETOOTH standard or the like.

In general the system includes a server and a number of client devices through Nconnected by a network . The network may be any type of Wide Area Network WAN Local Area Network LAN or any combination thereof and may include wired components wireless components or both wired and wireless components. For example the network may be the Internet. The client devices through Nhave associated users through N. In addition the system includes a content sharing function . The content sharing function may be implemented on a third party server. Alternatively the content sharing function may be implemented on the server or implemented on the client devices through Nin a distributed fashion.

The server includes a CR engine a content metadata database a user preferences database and a CR content and rules database . The CR engine the content metadata database the user preferences database and the CR content and rules database are substantially the same as the CR engine the content metadata database the user preferences database and the CR content and rules database discussed above. However the specific details of each may vary depending on the embodiment of the system .

As a first example the system may be a system providing custom webpages for the users through N where the webpages are hosted by the server . For example the custom webpages may be similar to those provided by MYSPACE . The custom webpages operate as content representation hosts. In operation when the user interacts with the client device to request the webpage of the user N from the server the CR engine operates to identify applicable content representations descriptive of content shared by or otherwise made available by the user N and to generate a navigation tree for the user N in the manner described above. The CR engine effects presentation of one or more of the content representations from the navigation tree to the user in association with the custom webpage of the user N. The user may then interact with the content representations to navigate through the navigation tree for purposes of content exploration and may initiate content transfers if desired.

As a second example the system may be a P2P content sharing system. In this example the system is more specifically a hybrid P2P content sharing system wherein server also provides a proxy function acting as an intermediary between the client devices through Nor provides a connection set up function for establishing direct P2P connections between the client devices through N. It should be noted that in an alternative embodiment the client devices through Nmay communicate in a true P2P fashion and the CR engine may be hosted by one of the client devices through Nor distributed among two or more of the client devices through N.

The CR engine may operate to effect presentation of content representations to the user as for example part of a query response where identifiers of the users or peers in the P2P content sharing network operate as the content representation hosts. More specifically in response to a query from the client device the CR engine may identify the applicable content representations for the user Nand generate a navigation tree for the user N. The CR engine then effects presentation of one or more of the content representations from the navigation tree to the user in association with an identifier of the user Nin the query response. The user may then interact with the content representations to navigate through the navigation tree for purposes of content exploration and may initiate content transfers if desired.

In addition or alternatively the user may maintain a buddy list identifying other users in the system such as the user N. As such the CR engine may generate a navigation tree for the user Nand effect presentation of one or more content representations from the navigation tree in association with an identifier of the user Nin the buddy list of the user . The user may then interact with the content representations to navigate through the navigation tree for purposes of content exploration and may initiate content transfers if desired.

As a third example the system may be a mobile network such as a cellular network. The user may maintain a buddy list identifying other users in the system such as the user N. As such using the user Nas an example the CR engine may generate a navigation tree for the user Nand effect presentation of one or more content representations from the navigation tree in association with an identifier of the user Nin the buddy list of the user . The user may then interact with the content representations to navigate through the navigation tree for purposes of content exploration and may initiate content transfers if desired.

The examples above are intended to illustrate that the present invention is not limited to a virtual environment system as described with respect to and should not be considered to limit the scope of the present invention. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the CR engine of the present invention is an additive technology that may be incorporated in any type of system wherein content representations are desirable.

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

