---

title: Method and system for characterizing elements of a print production queuing model
abstract: Methods and systems for characterizing performance of resources in a production environment are disclosed. Timing information for a plurality of print jobs may be received at a resource characterization system from one or more resources. A service time distribution may be determined based on the timing information. Resource performance for the one or more resources may be characterized based on the service time distribution using a queuing model. One or more performance characteristics may be provided for the one or more resources based on the characterized resource performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07810095&OS=07810095&RS=07810095
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 07810095
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070912
---
The present disclosure generally relates to methods and systems for improving the efficiency of a document production environment such as a print shop. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for performing performance characterization of data derived from resources in a document production environment using a queuing model.

Document production environments such as print shops convert printing orders such as print jobs into finished printed material. A print shop may process print jobs using resources such as printers cutters collators and other similar equipment. Typically resources in print shops are organized such that when a print job arrives from a customer at a particular print shop the print job can be processed by performing one or more production functions.

Over time resources used in document production environments have been provided with network interfaces. In addition equipment manufacturers have started to provide software development kits and application programming interfaces that can be used to query machines to retrieve machine status and print job characteristics such as time stamps or other timing information. As such analyzing data from networked resources in order to characterize resource behavior has become more commonplace.

One method of characterizing performance data in document production environments has been through the use of discrete event simulation models. Scheduling architectures that organize print jobs received by a document production environment and can be used to route the print jobs are known in the art. Exemplary scheduling architectures are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 051 328 to Rai et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 065 567 to Squires et al. The exemplary scheduling architectures use simulation models to characterize and analyze resources in a document production environment in an attempt to optimize the performance of the environment.

While these scheduling architectures can organize and route print jobs received by a document production environment such architectures operate based on discrete events such as receiving or processing an individual print job. However using discrete event simulation models to characterize and analyze resources in a document production environment might not provide a compact and computationally efficient description of the environment such as a closed form equation or an approximation for one or more of the parameters in the system.

Before the present methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular systems methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a job is a reference to one or more jobs and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. As used herein the term comprising means including but not limited to. 

In an embodiment a system for characterizing performance of print related resources in a print production environment may include a plurality of print related resources a processor in communication with the print related resources and a processor readable storage medium in communication with the processor. The processor readable storage medium may contain one or more programming instructions for performing a method of characterizing performance of print related resources in the print production environment. The method may include receiving timing information for a plurality of print jobs performed by the print related resources. The timing information may include for one or more print jobs a time period for at least one print related resource to perform at least one operation for the print job. The method may further include determining a service time distribution based on the one or more time periods characterizing print related resource performance based on the service time distribution using a queuing model and providing one or more performance characteristics for the one or more print related resources based on the print related resource performance.

In an embodiment a system for characterizing the performance of resources in a document production environment may include one or more resources capable of performing a plurality of print jobs and a resource characterization system. The resource characterization system may be configured to receive timing information for a plurality of print jobs from the one or more resources determine a service time distribution based on the timing information characterize resource performance for the one or more resources based on the service time distribution using a queuing model and provide one or more performance characteristics for the one or more resources based on the characterized resource performance.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method of characterizing the performance of resources in a document production environment may include receiving at a resource characterization system timing information for a plurality of print jobs from one or more resources determining a service time distribution based on the timing information characterizing resource performance for the one or more resources based on the service time distribution using a queuing model and providing one or more performance characteristics for the one or more resources based on the characterized resource performance.

For purposes of the discussion below a document production environment refers to an entity that includes a plurality of resources such as printers cutters collators inserters shrink wrappers and the like for producing documents. The document production environment may be a freestanding entity including one or more print related devices or it may be part of a corporation or other entity. Additionally the document production environment may communicate with one or more servers by way of a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN such as an intranet the Internet the World Wide Web or the like.

The term device refers to a machine used to perform an operation. Exemplary devices in a document production environment include printers cutters collators inserters shrink wrappers and the like.

A resource refers to an element of a document production environment that performs a function. A resource can be a device or manpower. For example in a document production environment a human operator may be required to transport an intermediate work product such as a printed document between or among resources as part of a job.

A job refers to a logical unit of work that is to be completed. For example a job may include one or more instructions and one or more parameters that when processed result in an output. In a document production environment a job may include one or more print jobs from one or more clients. A production system may produce a plurality of jobs.

A print job refers to a job that is processed in a document production environment. For example a print job may include one or more instructions and one or more parameters that when processed result in printed documents such as credit card statements corresponding to a certain credit card company bank statements corresponding to a certain bank or the like.

As used herein to characterize means to identify or approximate one or more characteristics or parameters of an environment that is being analyzed such as a document production environment. Exemplary characteristics or parameters may include a waiting time in a queue an average number of jobs in the environment or at a resource and the like. Such characteristics and parameters are also referred to herein as performance characteristics. 

 Resource performance refers to an expected capability of one or more resources to perform jobs over time. The resource performance is determined based on a service time distribution as defined below for the one or more resources. The resource performance may be represented by an approximation or a formula determined by using a queuing model to characterize a service time distribution. Resource performance may further be determined by comparing a service time distribution to parametric statistical distributions to identify a parametric statistical distribution that closely fits the service time distribution as described below .

 Timing information refers to data received from one or more resources pertaining to the amount of time to perform one or more operations for at least one print job. For example timing information may pertain to the time required to complete one or more of a printing operation a folding operation a cutting operation a sorting operation a raster image processing operation and a finishing operation for at least one print job. Timing information may include for example and without limitation a time stamp or a difference between times at which an operation is performed for two consecutively executed print jobs.

A service time distribution refers to an ordered distribution of a plurality of time periods for performing an operation. For example a service time distribution may include an ordered sequence of times that a resource required to perform each of a plurality of operations. The times for a service time distribution may be determined by determining the difference between time stamps. Service time distributions may be determined for one or more operations such as a printing operation a folding operation a cutting operation a sorting operation a raster image processing operation and a finishing operation.

Different elements of a production environment may require setup time in order to prepare the device to process a particular print job. For example some print jobs use pre printed forms such as bank statements that are pre printed with the bank s logo and contact information or credit card statements pre printed with charge dispute procedures. Forms also may include inserts such as marketing materials or subscription cards. If a device in a document production environment receives two consecutive print jobs that use identical forms little or no changeover is required between the two print jobs. However if the forms are different the print jobs have different setup characteristics and a significant setup time may be required to load the new form into the machine. This is especially noticeable in continuous feed printing devices where it can take up to 15 minutes or more to load a new form roll.

Queuing network based analytical models queuing models that characterize real data derived from machines may enable a document production environment manager to more fully understand that operation of the environment. Queuing network analysis can provide more insights regarding the variables that cause degradation of performance within a document production environment than discrete event simulation procedures. Moreover queuing network analysis is often faster to execute in a stochastic environment.

A queuing model that properly characterizes resources may provide insight into the performance characterization of a document production environment. Characterizing resources may be performed by identifying a service time distribution of a value such as a print time an arrival time or the like over a plurality of operations performed by one or more resources in the environment. Systems and methods for characterizing the resources of a document production environment are described below. Characterizing such resources may enable a determination of bottlenecks and or underutilized devices in a document production environment. Moreover characterizing the resources may identify a need for additional and or removable resources in the document production environment. By characterizing such resources the efficiency of the document production environment may be improved in light of the anticipated workflow identified by the queuing model.

A queuing model may be described using a b c d notation Kendall s Notation of Classification where a denotes an arrival time distribution b denotes a service time distribution c defines the number of resources and d denotes the maximum total number of customers. An arrival time distribution is a distribution of the time between print jobs arriving at the document production environment. A service time distribution is a distribution of the amount of time required to process an operation by one or more resources. The maximum number of customers is the maximum number of jobs that can be accommodated by the document production environment. For the purposes described herein queuing models may be used that seek to analyze M G l K or M G c K systems M G l K systems are a special case of M C c K systems . As used herein M describes an exponential distribution G describes a general distribution i.e. arbitrary distribution l or c describes the number of resources used to perform a particular operation such as printing in a document production environment and K describes the maximum number of jobs in the system.

Exemplary M G l K queuing models may include for example and without limitation embedded Markov chains regenerative analysis and busy period analysis models. Exemplary M G c K queuing models may include a variety of approximation approaches such as diffusion approximation infinite probabilities and two moment approximation models. Exact solutions to M G c K queuing models are only possible in special cases such as cases in which a single server is used M G l K cases in which there is an exponential service time distribution M M c K and cases in which no waiting room is available M G c 0 or simply M G c .

The timing information may pertain to a plurality of print jobs performed by the one or more resources. In an embodiment the received timing information may pertain to one or more of a printing operation a folding operation a cutting operation a sorting operation a ripping operation and a finishing operation for a plurality of print jobs. In an embodiment the timing information may include one or more time stamps for each print job. Exemplary time stamps for a plurality of jobs are shown in Table 1. In an alternate embodiment the timing information may include a difference between the times at which the same operation is performed for two consecutively executed print jobs.

A service time distribution may be determined based on the timing information. A service time distribution comprises a plurality of time periods for performing an operation. In an embodiment the amount of time required by a resource to perform an operation may be determined by determining the difference between time stamps. Exemplary time periods for performing a print operation for each of a plurality of print jobs are shown in Table 2. In an embodiment service time distributions may be determined for one or more operations performed for the plurality of print jobs such as a printing operation a folding operation a cutting operation a sorting operation a ripping operation and a finishing operation.

A resulting service time distribution may be graphically represented in a variety of ways. For example depicts a histogram and associated statistics for the exemplary data of Table 2. In an embodiment a graphical representation of an operation performed by one or more resources and or of the overall operation of the one or more resources in the document production environment may be displayed.

In an embodiment one or more moments of the service time distribution may be determined. Such moments may include a mean of the service time a standard deviation of the service time and the like. In addition other information may be determined such as a median service time a minimum service time a maximum service time quartile break points for the service time distribution a confidence interval for the mean and or the median service time a variance for the service time distribution a skewness of the service time distribution a kurtosis of the service time distribution and the like. Exemplary descriptive statistics based on the data contained in Table 2 is displayed in Table 3.

In an embodiment the service time distribution may be compared with one or more parametric statistical distributions e.g. lognormal exponential gamma and the like such as are shown in Table 4 below in order to identify a parametric distribution that best fits i.e. most closely approximates in a statistically significant manner the service time distribution. As used herein statistically significant means that the parametric statistical distribution used to characterize the service time distribution has a P value a probability of obtaining a result at least as extreme as the service time distribution that is greater than or equal to 0.05. If a parametric statistical distribution fits the service time distribution the parametric statistical distribution may be used to represent the service time distribution. Other methods for identifying parametric statistical distributions that best fit the service time distribution may also be utilized.

Table 4 identifies nine exemplary parametric statistical distributions and the Anderson Darling test value and P value for each parametric statistical distribution. The Anderson Darling test value for a distribution function is determined by computing a test statistic A that assesses if order data for the distribution function Y . . . 

By determining the nature of the service time distribution that the resource is experiencing a queuing network analysis of the document production environment may be performed using one or more of the queuing models. Resource performance may be characterized based on the service time distribution using a queuing model. For example a queuing model may be selected based upon the number of resources used to perform an operation i.e. selecting between an M G l K queuing model and an M G c K queuing model . Statistical information determined for the service time distribution may then be utilized by the queuing model to characterize the resource performance of the document production environment. As stated above the statistical information may include a parametric statistical distribution that approximates the service time distribution in a statistically significant manner. The number of resources in a queuing model may be varied in order to analyze the effect on performance measures such as waiting time idle time queue length throughput and utilization. This analysis may be used to determine an optimal number of resources to meet desired levels of service.

A general service time distribution and associated parameters for the service time distribution may be identified . Such parameters may include without limitation the location or scale parameter of the statistical distribution.

A number of resources may also be identified . For example a number of devices and or individuals in a document production environment may be identified . If only a single resource is available for a particular operation the queuing model may comprise a M G l K queuing model.

A maximum number of print jobs in a queue may be identified based on one or more physical constraints. For example the queue may only be able to accommodate a particular number of jobs based on space limitations within a document production environment. Other constraints with respect to queue size may also have an impact on the maximum number of print jobs for the queue.

An approximation of a steady state solution may be determined for the queuing model. The approximation may be determined based on the exponential arrival time distribution the general service time distribution the number of resources and the number of print jobs in a queue.

The approximation may be utilized to determine one or more performance characteristics of the document production environment. As stated above the performance characteristics may include statistical information pertaining to for example a parametric statistical distribution that approximates the service time distribution in a statistically significant manner. In an embodiment the number of resources in a queuing model may be varied in order to analyze the effect on performance measures such as waiting time queue length and utilization. In an embodiment the parameters of the exponential arrival time distribution or the general service time distribution the number of resources and or the maximum number of print jobs may be modified to determine the effect on one or more of the performance characteristics.

Referring back to one or more performance characteristics may be provided for the one or more resources based on the resource performance. For example analytical information pertaining to performance characteristics such as average waiting time in a queuing network modeling the document production environment the average work in process time and the like may be provided .

In an embodiment a resource may be added to the document production environment based on the performance characteristics. In an embodiment a resource may be removed from the document production environment based on the performance characteristics. In an embodiment resource addition and or removal may be performed automatically by identifying one or more target performance measures and varying a number of resources to determine a particular number that achieves the target performance measures.

The impact that results from modifying parameters for the model inputs i.e. representing various statistical distributions may also be analyzed. For example the impact of changing the mean of an arrival distribution or service time distribution on a plurality of resources which could correspond to a change in the job sizes received by the printers may be analyzed. Modifying other parameters such as the number of resources may also be performed within the scope of this disclosure to perform additional analysis. The modified parameters may be used to generate a modified service time distribution. Updated performance characteristics may then be provided based on analysis of the modified service time distribution using a queuing model.

In an embodiment the resource characterization system is computer implemented in that it includes a processor and a processor readable storage medium that contains programming instructions that when executed perform various functions such as the functions described above. For example the resource characterization system may be used to receive timing information from resources in a document production environment perform statistical analysis determine a service time distribution based on the timing information characterize resource performance based on the service time distribution using a queuing model and provide one or more performance characteristics based on the resource performance. Additionally the resource characterization system may initiate and or transmit a query to one or more resources requesting the timing information attempt to fit the service time distribution to one or more parametric statistical distributions and or identify a parametric statistical distribution that fits the service time distribution.

The plurality of resources may be used to process the plurality of print jobs. The plurality of resources may include printers collators cutters binders inserters shrink wrapping devices postage meters and the like. In an embodiment one or more of the resources may perform multiple functions.

It will be appreciated that various of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. It will also be appreciated that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the disclosed embodiments.

