---

title: Micromachined artificial haircell
abstract: A micromachined artificial sensor comprises a support coupled to and movable with respect to a substrate. A polymer, high-aspect ratio cilia-like structure is disposed on and extends out-of-plane from the support. A strain detector is disposed with respect to the support to detect movement of the support.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07661319&OS=07661319&RS=07661319
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07661319
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070601
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 810 800 filed Jun. 2 2006 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

This invention was made with Government assistance under USAF AFOSR Contract No. F49620 02 2 0496 NASA Contract No. NAG5 8781 and NSF Contract No. IIS0080639 IIS99 84954. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates generally to the field of microscale devices. The invention also relates generally to the field of artificial sensors.

Humans and other animals are able to perceive and process environmental conditions using various sensory attributes. For example animal skin and hair provide tactile and flow sensing for perception in land and or water environments. Synthetic engineered sensors on the other hand typically are constructed on many different physical principles such as heat and resistance in an attempt to obtain similar information. Animal sensory systems have attributes that are more elegant and efficient than known engineered sensors.

Engineered sensors such as micromachined sensors have been previously developed based on a number of sensing methods. Microfabrication offers benefits including high spatial resolution fast time response integrated signal processing and potentially low costs. Examples of microfabricated sensors include thermal hot wire anemometers and artificial haircells.

In numerous species including humans the biological haircell sensor serves as the building block for sensing systems with amazing capabilities. A typical haircell in animals provides a biological mechanoreceptor. shows a demonstration of a spider receptor haircell sensor . The haircell includes a cilium attached to tissue via a cuticular membrane . The cilium is connected to a neuron . Bending the cilium as shown in the right side of affects a signal path producing a changed signal. This change is used for reception.

The functions of animal haircells have been very closely studied by biologists over the years. However in recent years with the development of micromachining techniques researchers have started to mimic the stimulus transmission mechanism of biological sensing systems.

Artificial haircells have been produced by the present inventors and by others. One example artificial haircell provided by one or more of the present inventors is described in J. Chen Z. Fan J. Engel and C. Liu Towards Modular Integrated Sensors The Development of Artificial Haircell Sensors Using Efficient Fabrication Methods Proceedings of the 2003 IEEE RSJ Intl. Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems Las Vegas Nev. October 2003. This haircell is typically formed from bulk micromachining. It includes a silicon based in plane fixed free cantilever on a silicon substrate. A vertical silicon cilium is provided at a distal free end. A force or a flow such as an external flow parallel to the substrate impacts upon the vertical cilium. Due to a rigid connection between the in plane cantilever and the vertical cilium a mechanical bending element is transferred to the cantilever beam inducing strain at the base of the cantilever beam. This strain is detected using a strain sensor.

In another example artificial haircell provided by one or more of the present inventors and also described in J. Chen et al. a cilium is anchored by one or more rigid metal supports. The cilium preferably is made of a surface micromachined polymer and includes a stiff permalloy plating. A strain gauge is attached at the base of the cilium and includes a resistor such as a nichrome resistor on a polyimide backing. When an external force is applied to the cilium the cilium deflects causing the strain gauge to stretch or compress. The resulting change in resistance is detected.

Yet another artificial haircell provided by the one or more of the present inventors as disclosed in J. Engel J. Chen D. Bullen and C. Liu Polyurethane Rubber as a MEMS Material Characterization and Demonstration of an All Polymer Two Axis Artificial Haircell Flow Sensor 18IEEE International Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS 2005 Miami Beach Fla. USA January 2005 includes a sensor made entirely of polymer materials from a substrate level up. Polyurethane elastomers are utilized for sensing and structures. Such a haircell can detect two axis deflection of a vertical polyurethane cilium using for example a plurality of carbon impregnated polyurethane force sensitive resistors disposed at a base of the cilium.

According to example embodiments of the present invention a micromachined artificial sensor comprises a support coupled to and movable with respect to a substrate. A polymer high aspect ratio cilia like structure is disposed on and extends out of plane from the support. A strain detector is disposed with respect to the support to detect movement of the support.

Sensing capacities have been captured through micromachined artificial haircells. However it is desirable to improve robustness flexibility and or sensitivity for artificial sensors in various real world sensing environments.

Embodiments of the present invention provide artificial sensors that can mimic one or more animal sensors. Such artificial sensors can be designed or modified for use in any of various sensor functions. Preferably such artificial sensors exhibit a desired degree of robustness flexibility and sensitivity. Particular artificial sensors according to embodiments of the present invention can be designed and produced at relatively low cost and on a large scale if needed while allowing the flexibility and adaptability to substitute for various types of sensors found in nature.

Generally a micromachined artificial haircell according to an example embodiment of the present invention includes a high aspect ratio e.g. greater than 1 1 and tall e.g. at or above 20 microns cilia like structure i.e. a cilia like artificial hair attached to a movable support. The hair is positioned generally out of plane of the support so that it can receive a force from any of a variety of sources and displace in response to the force. Preferably the hair is made from a polymer material. Displacement of the hair couples the force to the movable support and in turn causes movement in the support. A strain detector is provided on the support to sense displacement of the support. Preferably the strain detector includes one or more piezoresistors formed by doping all of part of the support.

The support may be as nonlimiting examples a cantilevered support a beam a membrane and or a paddle on which the hair is disposed. The support may be formed as a nonlimiting example from silicon by micromachining. The configuration flexibility etc. of the support can vary depending on the range of inputs expected i.e. the operational envelope . An example support includes a silicon paddle which preferably but not necessarily is a cantilever or beam. In an example embodiment the paddle is a single support fixed free cantilever beam. Under this configuration the force coupled through the hair to the beam is introduced as a moment load on the beam. The provided strain gauge measures displacement strain at the end of the silicon paddle cantilever beam or mechanical beam . However the support may instead be a fixed fixed cantilever a membrane or other configuration. In an exemplary embodiment the paddle is supported by beams with doped silicon strain gauges at a base.

The hair as nonlimiting examples may be co fabricated with the support glued or otherwise mechanically or chemically attached e.g. adhered to the support. The hair extends out of the plane of the support preferably in a direction generally orthogonal to a plane of the support.

The hair can be made of any of a variety of materials if the material s used can build the hair in a high aspect ratio. Nonlimiting examples for hair materials include polymers such as photodefinable polymer elastomer rubber etc. In an example embodiment the hair has a high aspect ratio and is made from SU 8 epoxy formed by spinning and photolithography. Hairs made from SU 8 epoxy have been demonstrated by the present inventors to have a minimal displacement resolution. Haircells including SU 8 epoxy hairs have been applied to underwater flow sensing and have demonstrated good flow rate sensitivity. The hair may be any of various dimensions configurations locations etc. but a preferred hair should be disposed in a direction generally away from the support and provide via movement a mechanical coupling of a force to the strain detector.

The hair can receive a force via any of a variety of inputs. For example in addition to a simple vertical hair receiving a flow or direct force input the hair may be configured such as but not limited to by co fabrication or addition of one or more auxiliary parts to allow other inputs to provide a force to couple to the sensor. Configuration may include for example adding or incorporating one or more auxiliary parts suitably coupled to the hair e.g. formed in or on the hair to transduce pressure into deformation of the auxiliary part and thus move the hair. Auxiliary parts may include but are not limited to transducers for magnetic force vibration acceleration including gravitational chemical or biochemical absorption force acoustic force etc. A nonlimiting example of an auxiliary part is a membrane formed on or coupled to the hair. Thus for a particular haircell according to features of the present invention transduction can be one step interaction with the hair itself and or two or more steps e.g. interaction of a membrane coupled to the hair to transduce pressure into deformation of the membrane .

An exemplary strain detector includes one or more strain gauges such as piezoresistive or piezoelectric sensors which provide one or more signals used to measure strain based on displacement of the hair. The strain gauge such as a piezoresistive or piezoelectric sensor or sensors preferably is incorporated into the support e.g. membrane beam or cantilever . This may be done for example by doping the support or part of the support. Alternatively a piezoelectric or piezoresistive sensor or sensors can be deposited on the structure such as by metal screen printing etc. . The purpose of the strain detector is to convert strain in the support structure into an electrical change via resistance change and or voltage output e.g. due to a bridge configuration . In an example embodiment the support is made from a silicon on insulator SOI wafer to create high sensitivity piezoresistance. For example the hair may be disposed on a paddle supported by beams so that the paddle and beams provide the support and the strain detector may be a piezoresistive sensor disposed on the beams or formed within the beams.

In an example operation a force due to an input causes displacement of the hair in turn causing the support that is supporting the hair to be strained. This strain is detected by the strain detector. The input may vary depending on the configuration or environment of the hair as described above.

Turning now to the drawings show a cilia based artificial haircell according to an example embodiment of the invention. Generally the example haircell is a cilia based silicon piezoresistive sensing device. The haircell includes a cilia like hair disposed on a silicon paddle supported by a set of silicon beams . Together the paddle and the beams provide a support for the hair . The paddle and beam structure is cantilevered from a preferably silicon substrate which may be for example a chip or portion of a chip. Nonlimiting example cantilever dimensions e.g. the dimensions of the beam structure include a length of 100 m e.g. from the attachment point of the bulk silicon substrate to the beginning of the paddle a width of 20 m e.g. the sum of the widths of the two beams shown without the interposed gap and a thickness of 2 m. A cavity is provided in the substrate and below the paddle to permit movement of the paddle and the beams in response to displacement of the hair .

The substrate may include one or more electrical connections and components such as but not limited to a series of on chip resistors forming a Wheatstone bridge. The beams are doped to form strain detectors in the form of strain gauges at a base and these strain gauges are electrically connected to the resistors . The strain gauges may be provided by doping a connection point or connection area between the beams and the substrate or the entire support may be doped. Wiring for connecting the strain gauges to the resistors may be as nonlimiting examples gold gold titanium aluminum etc. For certain contacts annealing may be performed to provide the contact. Annealing methods will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The example hair is made of a high aspect ratio SU 8 structure with 80 m diameter and 500 750 m height. Another exemplary non limiting height range for the hair is 600 800 m. An exemplary formation process for the hair includes a single spin of SU 8 2075 and photolithography using a Karl Suss aligner.

An example process flow for fabricating the haircell is shown in . This example process is robust and takes advantage of high etching selectivity associated with the deep reactive ion etching DRIE process. In the example fabrication process a substrate such as a silicon on insulator SOI wafer is subjected to e.g. doped by ion implantation to define piezoresistors forming the strain gauges and the Wheatstone bridge resistors . In this example fabrication process all of the resistors for the Wheatstone bridge are fabricated on chip to minimize the thermal effect of a flow sensor.

Next as shown in an oxide insulator is deposited on the substrate and patterned to provide contact windows to the piezoresistors . Metal contact pads are deposited and patterned to define the electrical connections . For example a gold lift off may be used though other wiring such as aluminum wiring is also contemplated. To define the beams and paddles a front side Si etch is performed . A DRIE backside etch follows forming backside cavities all the way to an oxide .

The cilia like hair is then formed for example defined using a SU 8 process . The SU 8 process reduces manual handling of the devices and allows batch fabrication of haircell devices. Preferably a high pass optical filter is used during exposure to minimize or eliminate the T topping effect of the SU 8 structures. Examples of SU 8 structures with and without the T topping effect respectively are shown in . Finally a BHF etch removes the oxide barrier and releases the beam structure .

For device characterization of the example haircell a tip deflection test resonant frequency test sensitivity threshold test and preliminary dipole experiments were performed. The example haircell allows low frequency 

For example as shown in the tip deflection test shows very directional response with 0.1 resistance change due to on axis deflection e.g. down the length longitudinal axis of the beams and almost no response due to off axis deflection e.g. across the length of the beams . Based on the deflection test the gauge factor of the silicon strain gauge is determined to be 40. show another set of tests run for sensor directionality performance. shows sensor output voltage vs. flow angle and shows a standard deviation of sensor output vs. flow angle. An angular resolution of 2.16 with a standard deviation of 0.0151 was determined.

The velocity detection threshold is tested by the underwater dipole experiment. Example results are shown in . By sweeping the dipole vibration frequency and translating it into flow velocity it was observed that the example haircell sensor can detect flow velocity down to 2 mm s. This low velocity detection capability is very significant in real world testing.

The resonant frequency of different geometries has been tested using atomic force microscopy AFM under non contact mode. The resonant frequencies are on the order of a couple of KHz which satisfies a design specification of low frequency detection. shows an AFM output of an example resonant frequency test. Preliminary dipole experiments were also performed and a result showing a peak of response at the position of the example haircell sensor is shown in .

Arrays of haircells may be formed on one or more substrates . Multiple haircell sensors may be oriented for example orthogonally to do precise flow angle detection with precision as high as 1 degree. For example the longitudinal axis of the supports for the respective haircells may be disposed orthogonally to one another to provide sensitivity along the respective axes. An example of arrayed haircell sensors is shown in . One or more arrays of sensors may be provided for hydrodynamic flow imaging and object tracking for military use and study of nature. Various materials and packaging methods may be used to improve the robustness of the haircell device.

Within haircell sensor arrays the individual haircells may be configured as desired to sense different inputs and even vary among the haircells on a single substrate . For example the length of the hair can change and frequency response orientation dynamic range etc. can be varied as needed. Thus due to the design of the hair mechanical features and or the accessory coupling mechanism e.g. coating etc. various types of sensing can occur even on a single substrate if desired.

Haircells according to example embodiments provide a simple receptor that may serve as a modular building block for a variety of sensors thus providing multi modal sensing including applications beyond flow sensing and simple mechanical sensing if desired. Such various types of sensors may be provided for example by varying one or more features of the preferred haircell. For example haircells according to example embodiments may be used as an acoustic sensor vibration sensor 1 3 axes equilibrium sensor magnetic sensor airflow sensor 1 3 axes waterflow sensor 1 3 axes tactile sensor accelerometer e.g. via direct vibration chemical biological or biochemical sensor and other types of sensors. Cilia operating for example as ear hairs may be used to provide a microphone like device.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

