---

title: Systems and methods for providing enhanced content portability in a word page module
abstract: A computer implemented method for porting a visual object from a word page to another website is disclosed. The other website is accessible to the word page via Internet. The method includes enabling user selection of the visual object for transferring to the other website, and enabling user identification of the other website. The method also includes determining a communication interface of the other website. The communication interface defines one or more of acceptable content format, data types, size, and metadata. The method further includes transferring the visual object to the other website via the communication interface upon receiving instructions to port the selected visual object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595183&OS=08595183&RS=08595183
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08595183
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070809
---
This application is related to co pending 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 836 724 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Dynamic Page Creation 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 836 723 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Comments Aggregation and Carryover in Word Pages 3 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 836 719 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Multi function Search Box for Creating Word Pages and 4 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 836 717 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Persistent Navigation Bar in a Word Page each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention generally relates to displaying information related to a given word. More specifically but without limitation this invention relates to providing content portability functionality in a page module to enable porting user selected contents to other websites or information sharing services.

The computing industry has seen many advances in recent years and such advances have produced a multitude products and services. Internet websites are examples of products and services which are created to give users access to particular types of services data or searching capabilities. Today websites can be readily created by most individuals desiring to post information or provide access or connectivity to other data. Websites are also created updated and supported to provide constantly updated current event information news and other information. This data is highly managed and processed so that its presentation can be easily displayed on web browsers or other Internet connected devices.

In recent years social networking and information sharing through Internet among the Internet users have increased phenomenally. Currently to date however the traditional websites do not provide functionality to enable users to share content by moving referencing or copying the content selectively and effortlessly from one website to another websites or the Internet resources.

Broadly speaking the present invention fills these needs by providing a modular system that generates a word page including one or more page modules for a user entered word and enables users to port content of a word page to another websites and Internet resources selectively and effortlessly. The word page is a website that is focused around a user entered word and includes one or more page modules each containing content related to various verticals that are contextually related to the user entered word. The embodiments of the present invention enable users to port the selected content of the word page simply by clicking appropriate controls on the selected content. The porting of the content includes copying referencing or moving the content of the page modules in the word page to other websites or the Internet resources.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method for porting a visual object from a word page to another website is disclosed. The other website is accessible to the word page via Internet. The method includes enabling user selection of the visual object for transferring to the other website and enabling user identification of the other website. The method also includes determining a communication interface of the other website. The communication interface defines one or more of acceptable content format data types size and metadata. The method further includes transferring the visual object to the other website via the communication interface upon receiving instructions to port the selected visual object.

In another embodiment a page module for a word wherein the page module is dynamically created through user action related to the word is provided. The page module includes a word bar to display a plurality of contextually related words wherein each of the plurality of related words is related to the word with a subject context. The page module also includes a media display area to display media and a porting control to enable transfer of the page module to another website. The porting control is native to a word page such that the word module remains in the word page if the transfer of the page module occurs through the porting control.

In yet another embodiment a computer readable media having program instructions for porting a visual object from a word page to another website is provided. The other website is accessible to the word page via Internet. The computer readable media includes program instructions for enabling a user to select the visual object for transferring to the other website and program instructions for user identification of the other website. The computer readable media also includes program instructions for determining a communication interface of the other website and program instructions for transferring the visual object to the second website via the communication interface the program instructions for the transferring includes program instructions for maintaining a tracking information of the porting in a favorites page module of a user.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Most notably the system and apparatus described herein provide porting of the selected content in the word page to other websites and the Internet resources. The system enables a user to select either the whole page module or content such as a picture or a video in the page module and port the selected content to one or more external websites by clicking on the porting controls associated to the selected content. The external websites are configured in the word website to enable transparent internal access to the destination website by the word page to port the selected content. Hence users don t need to manually copy paste the selected content from the word page to one or more external websites.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the present invention.

The figures are provided in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The figures should not be construed as limiting the breath of the invention in any manner.

A system and apparatus for porting the selected content in a word page to the external websites or the Internet resources is disclosed. A word page includes page modules that present content having specific context. Context can be defined based on types of media or categories with a type of media. In one embodiment a vertical defines a type of media such as music movies communication shopping gaming etc. Within each vertical further contextual categories can be defined. For instance within music a context can be defined for types of music each artist etc. Thus for purposes of clarity the degrees and granularity by which types of context can be broken up or organized can grow over time as further context definitions are generated for words. The word page as used herein is a web page that is constructed from one or more page modules. The page modules as noted above will each define a type of content such as movie related content music related content picture related content game related content video related content gossip related content etc. that the entered word will be used to rearrange construct or obtain content that will define the presentation data interactivity images etc. of specific page modules. Thus the word page is a contained page that dynamically changes depending on the selected or entered word. A word page is therefore not a search engine or search interface that triggers a search of web links or external websites. To the contrary the word page will contain or generate one or more page modules and the data that is presented in each of the page modules dynamically changes or is updated over time or based on the entered word in the multi function search box or the selection of specific words within a particular page module of the word page.

The page modules that are generated for the entered word contain content that are contextually related to the entered word. The page modules and the content therein also include user interface controls to enable users to port a selected content to one or more external website. The users may either port the whole page module or a selected content displayed in the page module by choosing appropriate porting controls in the page modules. The selected content including the selected page modules may also be added to user s favorites module or emailed to one or more email addresses by choosing appropriate porting controls. The porting controls are configurable to enable the users or the administrators of the word website to add new features such as faxing of the selected content adding external websites in the porting control menus adding the selected content to the RSS Really Simple Syndication Internet resource etc. In one example the user may choose to port a page module containing interesting content to his her profile page in a social networking website e.g. mySpace YouTube or any similar social networking website to share the information with his her online social network. In another example the user may port a picture in a page module to his her profile page in a social networking website e.g. mySpace YouTube etc. .

As used herein to be contextually related means that a particular word that may be entered by a user is related to other words or phrases. Other words or phrases may be related in terms of context and the context means that there is some weaving together of words in terms of meaning subject or a combination thereof. Thus words that are contextually related to other words or phrases may be connected in terms of coherence. Still further context can be thought of in terms of parts of a discourse that surround a word or passage and can throw light on the meaning of the entered word. Some words that are considered contextually related may be defined based on some descriptive interrelation dependence or condition based on a theme environment setting event group of similar media similar activities or combinations thereof. Media in one embodiment is defined as one of a still picture a video a graphic a movie a game a commentary a plurality of images a text blog a comment or combinations thereof.

With this overview in mind the following figures will illustrate example structure and functionality of the content porting functionality of word pages.

In one embodiment the favorite module is a special type of page module that is used for storing pointers or references to page modules that were previously marked as favorite . In another embodiment various user defined content or links to external resources media movie clips albums etc. may also be stored in the favorite module . In yet another embodiment the favorite module contains content specific to a particular user. Such content is added to the favorite module through user action. In yet another embodiment one or more page modules are generated for the entered word favorite . The page modules that are generated for the entered word favorite contain user s favorite content in one or more vertical category such as music movies events etc. User s favorite content in one embodiment is based on the logged in user s the user profile information including at least one of user s preferences age sexual orientation geographical location. In another embodiment if the user has not logged in user s content browsing pattern and interactivity with the page modules is stored the cookies or temporary files which are then used to generate or assemble user s favorite content in various vertical content categories. In yet another embodiment the generation of user s favorite content is based on a combination of user profile information and user s interactivity with the page modules during one or more prior word website browsing sessions.

As illustrated in word surrounded by page modules sponsored modules and favorites module signifies that a quest for information related to the word leads to generation of various types of page modules and sponsored modules each hosting a specific type of content. further illustrates that generation of the word page revolves around selection of the word i.e. information displayed through various page modules is focused on the selected word . For example selecting popular for word will generate a word page with the most popular content for each respective page module such as popular movie popular music popular celebrity popular fashion popular club etc. . A new word page including a different set of page modules is generated every time a new word is selected. Hence in above example when the selection changes from popular to newest a new word page including page modules such as newest movies newest music album newest car models etc. will be generated.

In one embodiment the system maintains a list of words and a list of appropriate page modules for various types of content related to each of the words in the list. In one embodiment words and page modules are maintained and updated by the information editors with the help of user s browsing patterns latest stories about various celebrities products etc. various topics that users may be interested in the latest news etc. Content are grouped in different categories such as content related to a particular subject or word suitable or liked to a particular segment of users. In one embodiment contents are regularly and continuously updated to keep up with the latest developments. In another embodiment various types of contents are scanned and obtained from various electronic media sources automatically based on context based search filters.

The title is used to display a title of content of a page module sponsored module or favorites module . Text displayed in the title is also a word i.e. the title is selectable by a user and such selection would also triggers a generation of a new word page focused around the word in the title . In one embodiment some of the commonly used titles are music movie latest gossip etc. Title is generally a topic name of content in the page module . For example a page module with title text music will have contents either directly or contextually related to music.

Still referring to because title is also a word that has its own context around it selecting the title will generate a new word page to display various page modules centered or focused around the word. For example in a word page focused around word Lindsay Lohan that contains a module named Music i.e. Music is the title of the page module featuring the music of Lindsay Lohan selecting or clicking on the title of Music page module would cause generation of a new word page now focused at music. This new word page will for instance have page modules focused on classical music newest music album heavy metal jazz etc. all centered around and focused on Music . Thus as used herein a word does not have to be a single word but can be a set of words to define a person place or thing. A word however is different than a phrase which may be in the form of a sentence. Therefore broadly speaking a word can be a single word or tight collection of words that convey context.

Thus cyclic generation of word pages that include only contextually relevant and highly focused information provide a higher degree of browsing experience because the user is not forced to jump from one website to another website in search of relevant content.

In one embodiment the word bar is provided to display other words related to the subject matter of the page module . Word bar may include words that are contextually related to the subject matter of content of the page module . For example word bar in a scene module may contain words Clubbing Sunday Split etc. because these words are contextually related to the topic of page module .

In one embodiment the word bar may also contain one or more sponsored words . The sponsored words are bought or paid for by advertisers and can be displayed in the word bar when a specified sponsoring criteria is met. In another embodiment the system identifies a sponsored word to be included in the word bar based on the user interest in a particular type of subject matter user s past browsing history user s like for a particular brand etc. Selecting a word in the word bar will generate a new word page to display page modules and optionally sponsored modules centered around and focused on the word selected through word bar . Hence in this embodiment if a word page is generated around a word Celebrity in which a page module named Music is displayed the word N Sync would appear in the word bar . Selecting or clicking the word N Sync in the word bar will cause generation of a new word page. This new word page will for instance have page modules such as Music Latest Gossip etc. all centered or focused around the word N Sync .

Referring now to which illustrates the porting of a page module to the mySpace website in one embodiment. The name mySpace is being used throughout in this document only for providing a better understanding of the embodiments of current invention. It may be noted that any social networking website e.g. mySpace YouTube etc. may be used to practice embodiments of this invention. In another embodiment the page module may be ported to any external Internet website so long as the website exposes a communication or programming interface to allow porting the content from other resources. A word page includes a multifunction search box to enable the users to enter a word or select a word or a category of content from the multifunction search box . The word page focused around the entered or selected word or content category is then generated. The word page includes one or more page modules hosting content that are contextually related to the entered word . In one embodiment a favorites module is also displayed in the word page . In one embodiment the favorites module contains content that were previously marked as favorite by the user by porting the selected page modules to the favorite module.

Still referring to in one embodiment each page module includes a BANG control or button . The user may use the BANG control to port the selected page module to a web page in another website e.g. user s profile page in the mySpace website or any other social networking website . To enable porting the external website provides a programming or communication interface. In one embodiment the communication interface defines content transferring mechanism including acceptable content format data types metadata etc. In one example the communication interface also defines a maximum size of content that can be transferred in as a part of transferring the page module or a content of the page module. In another example the communication interface defines acceptable screen resolution of various media formats. In another example the communication interface defines parameters functions methods metadata data transfer protocol content types content sizes etc. in a way necessary for the word page in the word website to transfer the selected content of the page module to the another website. Through the metadata provided by the communication interface the word page formats content to be ported in the format acceptable to the external website.

In one embodiment porting data is stored in a data store such as a relational database to facilitate tracking of ported content. For each ported page module or for each ported content in the page module a tracking information is maintained. The tracking record is stored in the data store. The tracking information includes one or more of the identification of the page module or the content date time of porting identifier of the receiving Internet website or resource etc. In one embodiment the tracking information is incorporated in user s favorites page module . In one embodiment a preview of the content being ported is displayed to the user before initiating the porting .

In one embodiment the word page maintains a list of external resources for each user of the word page. In another embodiment the list of external resources e.g. external Internet websites is maintained as a part of user profile information. The list of external resources and user credentials e.g. user name and password are stored in a persistent database. A persistent database in one embodiment is a relational database. In other embodiments an active directory server LDAP or any other type of database may be used as long as the database or LDAP is able to store the list and user credentials in a manner that enables later selective retrieval of the stored information. One or more entries from the list of external websites may be selected by the user during porting of the selected content the content is then ported to all selected websites. The word page uses the user credentials that are stored with the external website identifiers in the list to silently log into the external website. If the user credentials are not found in the persistent data store the word page requests the user to enter login information of the selected external website at the time of porting of the selected content.

Referring now to . The content in the page module may also be ported to the external websites by the user of the BANG control . In one embodiment a BANG control is associated with each media content e.g. picture movie song etc. in page modules. In one example the BANG control may be used to port a picture in the interactive media space of the page module to a selected external website. The external website mySpace in this example will show the ported picture in a picture holder . The picture holder includes a picture strip to show thumbnails of all ported pictures. A thumbnail may be selected to display the ported picture in normal size in the picture holder .

Referring now to . In one embodiment not only a full picture or other media type may be ported to the external websites or saved to the favorites module but also a selected part of the picture in a page module may be ported to the external websites or saved to the favorites module . The user is enabled to select a part of the picture with the help of a mouse pointer or computer keyboard. The BANG control is displayed not shown in the selected part in in the selected part of the picture to enable porting or saving of the selected part . In another embodiment the selected part is used for entering comments for the object or objects or part of the object in the selected part . The porting control further includes an add to control to start transferring the page module to other website and the page module once transferred will retain attributes present or changed at the word page.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The programming modules page modules and subsystems described in this document can be implemented using a programming language such as Flash JAVA C C C Visual Basic JAVA Script PHP XML HTML etc. or a combination of programming languages. Commonly available application programming interface API such as HTTP API XML API and parsers etc. are used in the implementation of the programming modules. As would be known to those skilled in the art that the components and functionality described above and elsewhere in this document may be implemented on any desktop operating system which provides a support for a display screen such as different versions of Microsoft Windows Apple Mac Unix X Windows Linux etc. using any programming language suitable for desktop software development.

The programming modules and ancillary software components including configuration file or files along with setup files required for installing the widget dock and related functionality as described in this document are stored on a computer readable medium. Any computer medium such as a flash drive a CD ROM disk an optical disk a floppy disk a hard drive a shared drive and an storage suitable for providing downloads from connected computers could be used for storing the programming modules and ancillary software components. It would be known to a person skilled in the art that any storage medium could be used for storing these software components so long as the storage medium can be read by a computer system.

The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs Flash magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

While this invention has been described in terms of several preferable embodiments it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon reading the specifications and studying the drawings will realize various alternation additions permutations and equivalents thereof. It is therefore intended that the present invention includes all such alterations additions permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

