---

title: Point source localization sonar system and method
abstract: A matched-field based sonar system and method of use that supports real-time, three-dimensional acoustic source localization using a mobile, horizontal array. The system receives and processes acoustic array, non-acoustic array, and own-ship navigational data in the matched-field process (MFP). Driven by own-ship and array status, a global bathymetry database and an acoustic environmental model are used to generate replicas for the MFP. If a three-dimensional tracker is assigned, then the tracker will steer the search region to maintain contact on the target of interest. Displays are provided to the user including tracker displays (which provide tracker information), MFP ambiguity surface displays (which support contact localization), and non-acoustic and navigational displays. A control interface allows a user to control the search region in bearing, range, depth, and frequency; assign the three-dimensional tracker function; and control display processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07639565&OS=07639565&RS=07639565
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07639565
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070625
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 699 246 filed 30 Jan. 2007 and entitled Method For Real Time Matched Field Processing by the inventor W. Robert Bernecky.

The present invention generally relates to sonar systems and methods and more specifically to a matched field based sonar system and method that supports real time passive three dimensional acoustic source localization using a mobile horizontal array.

Sonar systems detect and locate underwater objects including missiles torpedoes and submarines. Active sonar systems transmit and receive in a set direction while passive systems listen to all angles at all times. Passive sonar systems are mainly used in military applications because they are silent have a much greater range than active sonar and allow identification of a target through target motion analysis TMA . TMA determines the target s trajectory i.e. target s range course and speed . Thus far TMA has been performed using own ship maneuvers and triangulation e.g. marking the direction from which sound comes at different times and comparing the motion with that of the operator s ship. Changes in relative motion are analyzed using standard geometrical techniques and assumptions about limiting cases. This process is extremely time consuming and requires manual interaction. Also in order to calculate speed the operator must know certain contact characteristics that are acquired over time.

Passive sonar is typically deployed in the form of towed arrays to enhance detection of sound sources. Towed sonar arrays are sonar systems that are designed to be towed by a submarine or a surface vessel in order to detect other submarines or objects. The arrays are typically long hose like structures measuring up to a thousand feet or longer that contain specially designed acoustic sensors hydrophones that receive acoustic waves. The arrays include electronics that convert the acoustical waves from analog to digital form and transmit that data to electronic processors on board the towing vessel.

One of the most important features of an array is that the array allows for beamforming which can be used for acoustic source localization. Since these are passive systems they must listen to all angles at all times and this requires a number of beams. At the same time a narrow beamwidth is required for locating the source and rejecting ambient noise. These two objectives are achieved simultaneously by a passive beamforming processor. The input output of each transducer is put through the beamforming processor which applies time delays or phase shifts to each of the signals in such a way as to create a narrow beam in a particular direction. This increases the gain in the direction of wanted signals and decreases the gain in the direction of interference and noise. Depending on the speed of the towing platform a towed array may display a level of cant i.e. inclination to the horizontal plane . Sonar processors that disregard the effect of array cant will erroneously report contacts at an erroneous bearing.

A number of approaches to beamforming and other acoustic source localization techniques exist. These include plane wave beamforming range focused beamforming multipath ranging technique and matched field processing MFP . Of these plane wave beamforming is the most mature and is the easiest to implement. For a single line towed array it provides only bearing information however and accuracy diminishes as the acoustic source moves from broadside to end fire. Range focused beamforming improves on this by additionally providing range estimates. However these range estimates have very coarse resolution and like plane wave beamforming this technique has performance degradation at end fire. Both plane wave and range focused beamforming cannot resolve the port starboard ambiguity issues when using a linear array and neither provide depth estimates.

Another method for estimating range is the multipath ranging technique which is strictly a manual process. Given a bearing time display the operator must calculate range based on the various acoustic propagation paths associated with a particular contact. This process is tedious prone to error and requires the operator to know the acoustic environment. The process also only works in specific environments. All of the acoustic source localization techniques described thus far also do not work well in shallow water.

Matched field processing is another localization technique. This technique is very computational and expensive and to date this has prohibited use in real time applications. Systems incorporating matched field processing thus far have been restricted to the laboratory where very small data sets are processed over very restricted search regions bearing range depth and frequency . Generally these systems also have utilized vertical stationary arrays rather than horizontal mobile arrays.

A number of patent efforts have been directed to point source localization systems and methods and include the following.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 357 484 issued to Bates et al. on Oct. 18 1994 discloses an acoustic source localization method which determines the range and depth to an acoustic source from a sampling site in a medium with the aid of a linear array of pressure transducers measurement back propagation and index processors and an environmental model.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 481 505 issued to Donald et al. on Jan. 2 1996 discloses an acoustic source localization method which utilizes matched field processing of measured data. This method detects processes and tracks sonar signals to provide bearing range and depth information that locate an object in a three dimensional underwater space. An inverse beamformer utilizes signals from a towed horizontal array of hydrophones to estimate a bearing to a possible object. A matched field processor receives measured covariance matrix data based upon signals from the hydrophones and from a propagation model. A peak picker provides plane wave peaks in response to output beam levels from the matched processor. A tracker identifies peaks within the specified limit of frequency bearing change over time range and depth to specify an object as a target and to display its relative range and depth with respect to the array of hydrophones.

Although the above described acoustic source localization methods as well as others have furthered technological development none of the methods provide a low cost system which incorporates a computationally efficient matched field processing algorithm supporting real time processing a global bathymetry database allowing the system to operate in any oceanographic location and other features including dynamic array shape compensation and high resolution range and bearing estimates.

Thus it would be greatly advantageous to provide a sonar system capable of matched field processing MFP that 1 supports real time passive three dimensional acoustic source localization using a mobile horizontal array 2 improves the performance of extant sonar systems by providing continuous localization estimates in bearing range and depth 3 supports port starboard ambiguity resolution 4 improves acoustic sensitivity at forward and aft end fire as well as in shallow water 5 provides a real time target motion analysis capability 6 has minimal space requirements making it suitable for shipboard deployment on both surface ships and submarines and 7 is of low cost.

It is therefore the primary object of the present invention to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that incorporates a computationally efficient matched field processing algorithm supporting real time processing.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that supports real time passive high resolution three dimensional acoustic source localization using a mobile single line horizontal array.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that processes acoustic data from a mobile single line horizontal array using dynamic array shape compensation for kite cant and curvature.

It is still another object of the present invention is to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that uses high resolution bearing range and depth estimates of the contact and own ship position to estimate contact position course and speed in real time providing a continuous target motion analysis capability.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that provides a user interface permitting the user to steer the search region in bearing range depth and frequency and on off switches giving the user control over display processing of the entire system.

It is yet another object to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that supports port starboard ambiguity resolution.

Yet another object is to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that incorporates a global bathymetry database allowing for operation in any oceanographic location.

Another object is to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that has minimal space requirements making it suitable for shipboard deployment on both surface ships and submarines.

It is yet another object to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use that is of comparatively low cost.

Still another object is to provide a point source localization sonar system and method of use which supports a fully integrated processing thread offering a complete sonar solution.

In accordance with the foregoing objects the preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a matched field based sonar system and method of use that supports real time passive three dimensional acoustic source localization using a mobile horizontal array. The system continuously receives and processes acoustic array non acoustic array and own ship navigational data in the matched field process MFP . Driven by own ship and array status a global bathymetry database and an acoustic environmental model are used to generate replicas for the MFP. If a three dimensional tracker is assigned then the tracker will automatically steer the search region to maintain contact on the target of interest. A variety of displays are provided to the user including tracker displays which provide tracker information MFP ambiguity surface displays which support contact localization and non acoustic and navigational displays which show status of own ship and array . A user control interface allows a user to control the search region in bearing range depth and frequency assign the three dimensional tracker function and control display processing.

The present invention is a matched field based point source localization PSL sonar system and method of use.

For purposes of the present invention one or both sets of non acoustic sensors may be utilized though both are preferred. The data is collected from non acoustic sensors and is forwarded to the rest of the system . To collect own ship navigational data including ship s heading depth speed latitude and longitude the system may utilize a standard shipboard electronic navigation system interface such as the Navigation Sensor System Interface NAVSSI . A communication link or data bus such as an a RS 232 line connects the hydrophone array non acoustic data sensors own ship navigational interface the external Interface and all other components of the PSL sonar system are described below.

The External Interface receives data from the hydrophones in the acoustic array and the non acoustic sensors and the navigational interface in real time. Non acoustic array data from the non acoustic data sensors of particular interest includes forward and aft depth heading and temperature status. Own ship navigational data of interest derived from shipboard controls via the own ship navigational interface includes own ship s heading depth speed latitude and longitude.

A two dimensional Fast Fourier Transform FFT and an Acoustic Data Preparation processor process the acoustic array data into frequency wave number k w data to be sent to a matched field processor MFP . In addition a Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor processes the non acoustic array data and own ship navigational data to generate accurate replica data. The Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor extracts data from a Global Bathymetry Database for generating replica data with the aid of an Acoustic Environmental Model . The PSL system can utilize any suitable bathymetry database that provides ocean depth under own ship given a latitude and longitude. For example the system can employ a Digital Bathymetry DataBase Variable Resolution DBDB V . The Global Bathymetry Database preferably operates in any oceanographic location. Additionally the system can use any acoustic propagation model for the Acoustic Environmental Model including the known Multi Path Expansion model.

Both the k w data from the Acoustic Data Preparation processor and replica data from the Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor are sent to the MFP . The MFP comprises a range focused k w beamformer followed by a voxel interpolator . The system makes use of a computationally efficient MFP process that supports real time processing. Essentially the MFP compares the measured field k w data against various predictions replica data and determines the best match in real time.

The ambiguity surface collector receives individual voxel ambiguity surfaces from the voxel interpolator . A voxel represents a three dimensional volume of space with dimensions in range depth and angular width. A typical voxel covers 200 meters in range and 80 meters in depth subdivided in 10 meter and 2 meter increments respectively. The ambiguity surface collector then forms a composite surface that is output to a three dimensional tracker function and MFP ambiguity displays which directly support three dimensional localization i.e. bearing range and depth of a contact. The tracker function estimates contact latitude and longitude and contact course and speed. This tracker related data is sent to tracker displays including a Geographic Situation GEOSIT display and a tracker history display. The GEOSIT display plots position latitude and longitude of own ship and of the contact and it displays estimated contact course and speed. The tracker history display is a three dimensional display which plots tracker bearing range and depth estimates as a function of time. Tracker bearing range and depth estimates are also displayed on the MFP ambiguity surface displays .

The MFP displays include depth vs. range display range vs. bearing display range time recorder display and bearing time recorder display. The depth vs. range display shows the current depth range ambiguity surface for the entire search region. Tracker estimates of contact depth and range are displayed if available. The range vs. bearing display shows the current range bearing ambiguity surface for the entire search region. Tracker estimates of contact range and bearing are displayed if available. The range time recorder display is a waterfall type display providing a history of the range ambiguity surface. The system provides this display to assist the user in estimating the range history of the contact. The bearing time recorder is a waterfall type display providing a history of the bearing ambiguity surface.

In addition to processing non acoustic array data and own ship navigational data to generate accurate replica data for the MFP the Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor also forwards non acoustic and own ship navigational data to the three dimensional tracker function and to the non acoustic array data NAD and navigational NAV displays . The NAD and NAV displays show status of own ship and the array and including the following displays own ship depth towed array depth towed array cant ocean depth heading and speed. The own ship depth display plots own ship depth and the average towed array depth as a function of time. The towed array depth display plots the depth of forward and aft portions of the towed array using NAD and EMOD if utilized depth sensors as a function of time. The towed array cant will display array cant using both NAD and EMOD if utilized depth sensors as a function of time. The system processes acoustic data from a mobile single line horizontal array using dynamic array shape compensation for kite cant and curvature. The ocean depth display plots ocean depth under own ship and under the contact as a function of time. Depths are obtained from the global bathymetry database . The heading display plots heading of forward and aft sections of the array as well as own ship as a function of time. The speed display plots own ship and target speeds as a function of time. The displays provide detailed visual target motion analysis TMA in real time.

The user has the ability to control which displays along with their associated processing are active via on off switches on an interactive user control interface i.e. control panel . The user can also control the search region in bearing range depth and frequency and also assign the three dimensional tracker function . Despite these user controls the system itself is designed to operate in an autonomous manner.

Using high resolution range and bearing estimates of the contact as well as own ship position the system can estimate contact position latitude and longitude course and speed. This is done in real time and provides a continuous solution. The system is of low cost and has minimal space requirements making the system shipboard deployable. Additionally the system provides improved aft end fire as well as shallow water performance. The system has an architecture that supports a fully integrated processing thread which provides a complete sonar solution.

Step involves the External Interface continuously receiving three different types of data 1 raw hydrophone data 2 non acoustic array data and 3 own ship navigational data. Once something makes sound in a given direction the hydrophones will detect the signal and then the External Interface will continuously receive this raw hydrophone data from the acoustic array . Additionally the External Interface will continuously receive non acoustic array data from the non acoustic sensors . The External Interface also continuously receives own ship navigational data from the own ship navigational interface .

The k w data is generated for processing in the Acoustic Data Preparation processor . The k w data is sent to the Acoustic Data Preparation processor in substep . Following substep is substep preparing frequencies of interest.

Array cant is calculated for the non acoustic sensors including both NAD and EMOD sensors if both are utilized. Following this is substep calculating array heading. The Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor calculates array heading using the average of forward and aft headings. Heading is derived from compass measurements the compass being embedded in the towed array. Substep follows in which the Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor then adjusts all bearings in the search region to take into account discrepancies between own ship and array headings. Following this is substep estimating latitude and longitude for all bearings. The Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor estimates latitude and longitude for every bearing in the search region based on own ship position and maximum range of the search region. The latitude and longitude of a point at a given bearing and range from own ship is calculated using well known navigation techniques. In substep ocean depths are extracted from the Global Bathymetry Database for every position estimated in substep . Substep involves determining sound speed at the voxel center. The Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor determines sound speed at the voxel center for every depth within the search region and then sends the sound speed at each voxel to the k w beamformer . Sound speed at each voxel is determined using the sound speed profile SSP . The SSP is measured using an Expendable Bathythermograph XBT device or extracted from a database of SSPs referenced by date and location. SSP s depend on bathymetric conditions and can be obtained from either the own ship navigational interface or through user inputs via the interactive user interface .

Following this is substep in which the information calculated in substeps and own ship depth array depth search region parameters and SSP are sent to the Acoustic Environmental Model . The own ship navigational interface provides the own ship data and the External Interface or the user interface is the source of the array and non acoustic array data. Substep follows in which the Acoustic Environmental Model generates replicas for every voxel in the search region without user interaction. Each replica that the Acoustic Environmental Model generates represents a set of eigenrays modeling acoustic propagation between an array hydrophone and a hypothetical noise source location. Each eigenray has a standard set of characteristics that include a amplitude b phase c angle of arrival d angle of departure e number of surface reflections f number of bottom reflections and g travel time. This is followed by substep wherein replicas from the Acoustic Environmental Model are sent back to the Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor which adjusts travel times of the replicas to account for sloping ocean bottoms. Substep follows wherein the Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor sorts the eigenrays of the replicas by signal strength and propagation type. The eigenrays whose signal strength do not meet a predetermined minimum threshold are removed from the replica data. A final substep involves sending replicas from the Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor to the k w beamformer .

Following step is step determining sound speed at array. The Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor determines sound speed at the array using average towed array depth and the SSP. The SSP is a table of sound speed as a function of depth. This table is entered with the depth of the towed array and the speed of sound in water for that depth is extracted. The Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor then sends sound speed at the array to the k w beamformer .

In substep the tracker function estimates the contact latitude longitude course and speed. This tracker related data is sent to tracker displays in substep . Tracker bearing range and depth estimates are displayed on MFP ambiguity surface displays in substep . The Non Acoustic Data Preparation processor also forwards the non acoustic array data and own ship navigational data to the non acoustic array data NAD and navigational NAV displays in substep . The NAD and NAV displays show status of own ship and the array. Finally in substep the NAD and NAV MFP and tracker displays are evaluated for point source localization of contact. The interactive user interface allows a user to turn on off the displays along with associated processing via on off switches.

Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. The system is robust and can support a number of different implementations. With slight modification the system would be able to support multi line arrays and or a long line towed arrays using subarrays. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims.

