---

title: Content distribution infrastructure
abstract: Providing content according to a distribution infrastructure. A content provider creates content and organizes the content into a channel. The content included in the channel is described by attributes associated with the channel. The channel is published to a processor and the processor hosts the published channel. A client computing device selectively subscribes to a plurality of published channels. The client computing device aggregates content form the plurality of subscribed channels and provides the aggregated content to a user in a single update experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762984&OS=08762984&RS=08762984
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08762984
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070531
---
Electronic content hereinafter content is increasingly used by society to perform services and to provide information. Accordingly as services are upgraded and information changes content must be updated. The update content may include updated information e.g. news updates weather reports stock updates new magazine articles and the like or updated products and services e.g. software updates bug fixes new software products recently released videos television episodes or songs upgrades to email and internet services subscriptions to view or use content provided by a website and the like . Generally update content may be delivered to a client computing device using one or more of a plurality of forms of computer readable media. For example computer readable storage media which includes updated content may be used to deliver the updated content to the client computing device. Alternatively the update content may be provided via one or more data communication networks such as the internet. Several different formatting techniques are available for embodying updated content in each of the plurality of forms of computer readable media. As a result of the multitude of options for formatting and delivering updated content to a client computing device content consumers e.g. users of the client computing devices are burdened with a plurality of inconsistent update experiences required interactions by the content consumer to receive the update content .

Because software and hardware are frequently updated to comply with rapid improvements in technology providing content related to software and hardware updates is particularly burdensome for both content consumers including end users and organization administrators and content providers such as independent software vendors ISVs independent hardware vendors IHVs and or original equipment manufacturers OEMs . Since the internet allows information to be provided quickly and globally the internet is often used to by content providers to distribute updates or other content to a large number of content consumers. However many small content providers are focused on development of their core product and lack the operations team and server infrastructure necessary to manage a distribution system on an internet scale. Moreover even when content providers have the resources to distribute the updates via the internet the content providers require content consumers to use content specific or provider specific software programs or to visit particular web sites or in order to receive the updated content. Accordingly content provided by each content provider involves a specific update experience. Because end users are interested in receiving software and hardware updates from a plurality of different content providers content consumers must navigate through a plurality of update experiences in order to receive the updated software and hardware content. Likewise corporate content consumers lack a single unified automatic update distribution system for all products used in their organization. Administrators must seek out updates for each software and hardware product and import the updates into their system.

Thus a need exists for a unified distribution infrastructure which can be used by all content providers to provide their updates to content consumers via a single update experience.

Embodiments of the invention overcome one or more deficiencies of existing practices for providing content to the content consumers by providing a unified distribution infrastructure. According to aspects of the invention the unified distribution infrastructure can be used by a plurality of diverse content providers advantageously facilitating the distribution of content to content consumers. In addition aspects of the unified distribution infrastructure advantageously allow content consumers to selectively receive different types of content and or content from a plurality of content providers via a single user experience.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the invention provide electronic content from a variety of content providers to a content consumer in a single federated or aggregated update experience. According to aspects of the present invention content providers organize content into channels and publish the channels to a distribution processor. Content consumers broadly users such as end users server administrators and content aggregators subscribe to various channels published on the distribution processor in a single update experience. Updates from the subscribed channels are accordingly processed directly by the content consumer or aggregated and distributed to other content consumers.

Referring to a block diagram illustrates an exemplary network environment in which aspects of the present invention can be implemented. A system provides content from a plurality of content providers see to one or more client devices . In general the system includes at least one interface such as a user interface or a programming interface e.g. application programming interface processes etc. for interacting with the content providers and at least one distribution processor . The interface and the distribution processor are connected via a wired e.g. wired network or direct wired connection and or a wireless e.g. acoustic radio frequency RF infrared communication media. In one embodiment a computing device having an input and output device s e.g. monitor keyboard mouse touch screen microphone speakers and the like comprises the interface and the distribution processor . In another embodiment the interface and the distribution processor each include computing devices in a data communication network e.g. local area network LAN wide area network WAN and the like . For example the distribution processor may be one or more servers connected to an intranet or to the internet and the interface may be a personal computer PC or other digital device which is also connected respectively to the intranet or to the internet.

The interface interacts with a content provider to develop a channel. A channel comprises channel content and channel attributes which define the channel content or channel behavior. According to one embodiment each content provider selects and or creates content for including in a channel via the interface . Additionally each content provider interacts with the interface to establish channel attributes defining the selected and or created content. For example the interface may include a developing application which can be used by each of the plurality of content providers to select create content and to define the channel attributes. The set of channels attributes are consistently used by the plurality of content providers to describe content in the channels. An exemplary set of channel attributes include attributes which indicate the content provider of the channel procedures for validating the content authenticity of the channel content content consumer authentication requirements and restrictions applicable to client computing devices. In other embodiments additional or alternative channel attributes are used to define and describe the content of the channel. For example channel attributes may include content such as images text or instructions for interactive experiences that are used by the update agent further discussed below to customize the uniform infrastructure of the user experience on the user computing device when content is downloaded or installed from that channel. For example an embodiment of the uniform user experience on the user computing device may provide functionality to display branding images text or experiences as part of the user experience with the branding information provided by the content provider as an attribute of the channel. In an additional example the user experience on the user computing device may provide a facility to direct the user to the content provider s web site or other location with the experience and destination specified as an attribute of the channel. By employing a set of channel attributes which are used by various content providers to define content the present invention advantageously provides a uniform infrastructure for providing content to client devices .

The interface further interacts with a content provider to publish the channel to the distribution processor . The distribution processor hosts the published channel. The content provider manages the hosted channel via the interface . In particular the content provider may create and publish new data to the hosted channel. Additionally or alternatively the content provider may modify e.g. alter delete revise etc. the attributes or content of the hosted channel. In one embodiment the distribution processor additionally hosts channels published to it by another content provider s e.g. distribution processor B hosts channels published via user interfaces B C from different content providers .

The distribution processor is connected to the client devices via a wired e.g. wired network or direct wired connection and or a wireless e.g. acoustic radio frequency RF infrared communication media such that the client devices may communicate with the distribution processor . The distribution processor is configured to permit client devices e.g. requestors which are requesting to receive content from a channel hosted by the distribution processor to access the hosted channel based on the attributes of the published channel. For example when the hosted channel attributes indicate that particular client devices are restricted from accessing the channel the distribution processor prohibits the particular client devices e.g. requestors from accessing the channel. In particular client devices or users may be restricted by identity or by descriptive attributes of the hardware or software on the client device. Likewise when the hosted channel attributes indicate that user authentication is required the hosted channel permits access by client devices requesters to the channel as a function of authenticating the user of the client device .

Referring further to according to one embodiment a content provider may develop and publish a plurality of channels. Additionally the content provider may select and or create content which is included in several or all of the plurality of channels. For example a content provider may be a software vendor of a first product e.g. a word processing application and of a second product e.g. a business suite which includes the word processing application along with several other applications . The software vendor may interact with the interface to develop a first channel for providing content updating the word processing application for client devices having installed the first product. The software vendor may also interact with the interface to develop a second channel for providing content updating the business suite for client devices having installed the second product. In this example the software vendor can create an update for the word processing application and include the update in both the first and the second channels. The first and second channels may be published to the same distribution processor or to separate distribution processors .

As illustrated by the client devices include a computing device s user computing device of an end user content consumer user . As generally known in the art a computing device e.g. aggregator computing device user computing device interface computing device distribution computing device has one or more processors a system memory and a bus coupling the processor to the memory. The computing device may also include an input device e.g. mouse trackball pen pad microphone and the like and or an output device e.g. monitor speaker printer and the like for interacting with a user. The memory includes computer readable storage media e.g. removable non removable volatile non volatile memory for storing information used to perform various functions. The computer readable storage media of the user computing device includes instructions e.g. an update agent for interacting with a user and accessing a hosted channel from the distribution processor and presenting e.g. downloading content from hosted channel according to the user interaction e.g. user specifications requests .

In one embodiment the update agent allows a user to select a particular channel for which the user would like to receive content. For example when a user installs a software application on the user computing device the update agent prompts the user to subscribe to the channel which includes content for updating the software application. Alternatively the software application may be designed such that when a user installs the software application on the user computing device the software application interacts with the update agent to register for automatic updates from the channel which includes content for updating the software application. In another embodiment the update agent additionally or alternatively allows the user to specify how or when the content is displayed to the user. For instance the user may request the update agent to notify the user prior to downloading a first set of content to the user computing device . The user may request the update agent to automatically download a second set of content at a particular time and display the downloaded content to the user at another subsequent particular time. In another embodiment the update agent stores identifying information such as user information e.g. login ID password email address a channel subscription identifier hardware or software identifiers etc. required by a channel to authenticate the user. The user may request the update agent to automatically provide the required user information to the distribution processor for authenticating the user with respect to a particular channel.

In one embodiment the present invention is implemented to provide the user computing device with software updates from channels developed by a plurality of content providers and hosted by a distribution processor . The user submits a request to the update agent indicating one or more channels for which the user would like to subscribe e.g. receive new content subsequently published to the channel . For example the update agent may indicate to the user the channels hosted by the distribution processor for selecting by the user. In response the user submits the request to the update agent by selecting one or more of the indicated channels. The update agent receives the user s request and subscribes to the requested channel s . The update agent may alternatively subscribe to channels in response to a request for automatic updates received from a software application being installed on the user computing device. The update agent communicates with the distribution processor to identify new content in one or more of the subscribed channels. The new content includes a new software update and may also include computer readable and or executable information for installing the software update on the user computing device . When the update agent identifies new content the update agent accesses the channel and downloads the new content based on the channel attributes e.g. providing user authentication authenticating the content provider and or specifications from the user e.g. automatically provide authentication information and or descriptive information provided to the distribution processor e.g. descriptive identifying attributes of associated with the user computing device . The downloaded new content is installed on the user computing device based on specifications from the user e.g. installation time . Advantageously the user may receive software updates from a plurality of content providers in a single update experience.

In another embodiment the present invention is implemented to provide the user computing device with software updates from channels developed by a plurality of content providers and which are hosted by a plurality of distribution processors e.g. channel sources . As previously described the update agent subscribes to channels requested by the user and or software application being installed and identifies new content in the subscribed channels. The update agent aggregates the identified new content from the plurality of content sources on the user computing device . For example the update agent downloads the identified new content to the user computing device based on the channel attributes defining the new identified new content. The update agent subsequently installs the aggregated content on the user computing device according to specifications from the user.

As further illustrated by the client devices may additionally or alternatively include an aggregator processor that communicates content to another client device a computing device of an end user . The aggregator processor is controlled by or otherwise interacts with a service administrator to provide a service as discussed below for communicating content to an end user via a user computing device . In providing the service the aggregator processor performs many of the functions which were previously discussed as being performed by the update agent . In one embodiment the aggregator processor receives a request from the service administrator to subscribe to or register with channels hosted by a plurality of content sources. In another embodiment the aggregator processor receives a request from a user via the user computing device to subscribe to or register with channels hosted by a plurality of content sources. The requests may define preferences for receiving content from the content sources. For example the requests may specify a time for receiving content from the content sources. The aggregator processor is configured to communicate accordingly with the content sources of the requested channels to subscribe to register for the requested channels. As a result of registering the aggregator processor receives content including new content which is subsequently included in the channels from the registered channel sources. The aggregator processor aggregates the received content based on the channel attributes defining the content and distributes the aggregated content as a single channel to the user computing device s . In one embodiment each of the user computing devices includes an update agent for receiving the distributed aggregated content as a single channel from the aggregator processor and installing the updated content on the user computing device .

In one embodiment the aggregator processor examines the received content and alters and or distributes the aggregated content based on the examination. For example the aggregator processor may define channel attributes for the single channel which includes the aggregated data. Additionally or alternatively the aggregator processor may alter e.g. modify delete supplement etc. the aggregated content based on the preferences or needs of a potential recipient user and or the components of a user computing device . For instance prior to distributing multimedia content to a particular user an aggregator processor may alter the multimedia content so that it can be accessed by a user with software currently installed on the user computing device . In another example the aggregator processor may additionally or alternatively group the aggregated content into sets. For instance the aggregator processor may group all of the content which relates to basic anti virus protection into a first set and group all of the content which relates to extensive anti virus protection into a second set. The aggregator processor may then distribute the first set to any all user computing devices but distribute the second set only to preferred user computing devices e.g. A and B .

According to an embodiment of the invention illustrated by the distribution processor may host channels developed content providers of other entities in addition or as an alternate to hosting channels developed by content providers of the same entity. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention allow a content provider such as small entity to provide content A to user computing devices even though the small entity alone may lack the infrastructure to do so. For example the small entity may be a small independent software vendor that produces medical office software for the dental industry. Since the small independent software vendor is focused on the development of its software it may lack the operations team and server infrastructure to manage an update distribution system. According to the illustrated embodiment aspects of the present invention may be implemented such that a distribution processor offers a service wherein the distribution processor will host the small independent software vendor s updates A for a fee. Accordingly the small independent software vendor interacts with a interface to develop a channel. Particularly the small independent software vendor may install a channel developing application on a local computing device to help the small independent software vendor efficiently develop manage and publish the channel. The distribution processor hosts the channel and manages the distribution of the channel content to content consumers such as end users and aggregators . The distribution processor may track the number of channel users rate of uptake on new updates rate of successful installs by consumers or other metrics as part of the service provided to the content provider.

Referring to because the present invention provides a federated infrastructure for providing content an end user can receive content from a plurality of content sources e.g. distribution processors in a single update experience. An update agent installed on the user computing device communicates with a plurality of content sources e.g. the distribution processor hosting the small software vendor s channels the on site server hosting the large software vendor s channels etc. to provide the user with a single unified update experience. Thus instead of interacting individually with each content source and or content provider the user can interact with the update agent in order to receive updates from the plurality of content sources and providers. According to one embodiment when the user installs a new application the update agent allows the user to choose to subscribe to updates for the new application. Additionally or alternatively the update agent may interact with software applications installed on the user computing device in order to set up automatic updates for the installed software. In addition to providing and scheduling updates the update agent collects and conveniently displays update information to the user . For example the update agent allows the user to check a list of installed software to view updates being automatically downloaded and installed to remind him when his premium subscriptions to content e.g. anti virus updates expire and or whether there are updates available. The update agent may provide the ability to set values related to subscription download and install of updates globally on a per channel basis or in some combination thereof.

Referring to the federated infrastructure of the present invention also allows administrator of an aggregator processor such as a corporate IT server administrator to conveniently and efficiently publish and host content and to receive content from a plurality of content sources e.g. distribution processors . According to the illustrated embodiment the aggregator processor such as a corporate IT server is configured to communicate with a plurality of distribution processors . For example the administrator may configure the server to subscribe to channels providing updates to software installed on the corporation s end user computing devices . The server then aggregates the content from the channels for distributing to the corporation s end user computing devices via intermediate servers A B. In one embodiment the server is also configured to deploy a policy for controlling behavior of the update agent on the end user computing devices such as automatically downloading and or installing the aggregated content at specified times restricting the end user computing device to a set of approved channels or modifying the experience provided to the end user. In one embodiment the server is configured to filter the content to include only the updates needed by the end users of the corporation and or explicitly approved by the administrator prior to deploying the content. Additionally the administrator may add additional content e.g. via a developing application installed on a local computing device for updating in house applications.

Still referring to the administrator may also deploy a policy specifying controlling defining an installation process for installing the aggregated content on the end user computing devices . For example the administrator may control via the policy the time when the content should be downloaded to the server e.g. aggregated and when the content should be deployed. The aggregator may provide the ability to set filter and deployment values on a per channel basis globally for all subscribed channels or in some combination thereof. Advantageously the administrator can maximize the efficiency of the corporation s network by strategically scheduling the downloading of content from the distribution processors and the deployments of the downloaded content to end user computing devices . For example the administrator may schedule downloads at 4 am examine and or modify the downloaded content during the day and schedule to deploy the content at 11 pm. Thus the administrator is able to avoid overcrowding the network by effectively scheduling software updates. Although described with respect to this exemplary embodiment as a server it is to be understood that aggregator processor is a client computing device relative to the distribution processor .

Referring to a federated infrastructure of the present invention may be used by a service administrator such as an original equipment manufacturer OEM to provide updates for users of OEM computer systems . For example a user of an OEM computing device may subscribe to an OEM update program offered by the OEM. The OEM manages an aggregator processor to aggregate content from various distribution processors A B C for drivers and applications that it bundles on its computer systems . The OEM tests the aggregated content and distributes the approved content to end users . The update agent on the user computing device receives the OEM updates as well as updates distributed from other distribution processors N. The update agent installs the received updates according to the user s specifications.

Referring to the federated infrastructure according to aspects of the present invention may be used by an update service provider to provide updates for all of the software installed on a user computing device . For example a user may not want to manage software updates on the user s computing device . Instead the user may subscribe to an update service provider. The update service provider is an aggregator processor e.g. aggregator processor configured to aggregate content from a plurality of distribution processors for updating the software installed on the user s computing device . The update service provider transmits the aggregated updates to the user s computing device and an update agent installed on the user s computing device automatically installs the updates.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

