---

title: Apparatus and methods for automatic trade execution in a trading system
abstract: A trading system transitions from a first state to a second state and may award a participant, when one or more criteria and/or a status of trading rights are met, with an exclusive and/or semi-exclusive right in the second state to trade on an incoming contra order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08121929&OS=08121929&RS=08121929
owner: BGC Partners, Inc.
number: 08121929
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070109
---
This application is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 328 814 filed Jan. 9 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The term product means any machine manufacture and or composition of matter unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term process means any process algorithm method or the like unless expressly specified otherwise.

Each process whether called a method algorithm or otherwise inherently includes one or more steps and therefore all references to a step or steps of a process have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term process or a like term. Accordingly any reference in a claim to a step or steps of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.

The term invention and the like mean the one or more inventions disclosed in this application unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments certain embodiments one embodiment another embodiment and the like mean one or more but not all embodiments of the disclosed invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term variation of an invention means an embodiment of the invention unless expressly specified otherwise.

A reference to another embodiment in describing an embodiment does not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment e.g. an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term herein means in the present application including anything which may be incorporated by reference unless expressly specified otherwise.

The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things such as an enumerated list of things means any combination of one or more of those things unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the phrase at least one of a widget a car and a wheel means either i a widget ii a car iii a wheel iv a widget and a car v a widget and a wheel vi a car and a wheel or vii a widget a car and a wheel. The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean one of each of the plurality of things.

Numerical terms such as one two etc. when used as cardinal numbers to indicate quantity of something e.g. one widget two widgets mean the quantity indicated by that numerical term but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical term. For example the phrase one widget does not mean at least one widget and therefore the phrase one widget does not cover e.g. two widgets.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on . The phrase based at least on is equivalent to the phrase based at least in part on .

The term represent and like terms are not exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the term represents do not mean represents only unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase the data represents a credit card number describes both the data represents only a credit card number and the data represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else .

The term whereby is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words that express only the intended result objective or consequence of something that is previously and explicitly recited. Thus when the term whereby is used in a claim the clause or other words that the term whereby modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.

The term e.g. and like terms mean for example and thus does not limit the term or phrase it explains. For example in the sentence the computer sends data e.g. instructions a data structure over the Internet the term e.g. explains that instructions are an example of data that the computer may send over the Internet and also explains that a data structure is an example of data that the computer may send over the Internet. However both instructions and a data structure are merely examples of data and other things besides instructions and a data structure can be data .

The term respective and like terms mean taken individually . Thus if two or more things have respective characteristics then each such thing has its own characteristic and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For example the phrase each of two machines has a respective function means that the first such machine has a function and the second such machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine may or may not be the same as the function of the second machine.

The term i.e. and like terms mean that is and thus limits the term or phrase it explains. For example in the sentence the computer sends data i.e. instructions over the Internet the term i.e. explains that instructions are the data that the computer sends over the Internet.

Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within the range. For example the range 1 to 10 shall be interpreted to specifically include whole numbers between 1 and 10 e.g. 1 2 3 4 . . . 9 and non whole numbers e.g. 1.1 1.2 . . . 1.9 .

Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous e.g. because of an explicit statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous instances of one such term phrase does not mean instances of another such term phrase must have a different meaning. For example where a statement renders the meaning of including to be synonymous with including but not limited to the mere usage of the phrase including but not limited to does not mean that the term including means something other than including but not limited to .

The term determining and grammatical variants thereof e.g. to determine a price determining a value determine an object which meets a certain criterion is used in an extremely broad sense. The term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The term determining does not imply certainty or absolute precision and therefore determining can include estimating extrapolating predicting guessing and the like.

The term determining does not imply that mathematical processing must be performed and does not imply that numerical methods must be used and does not imply that an algorithm or process is used.

The term determining does not imply that any particular device must be used. For example a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.

The term indication is used in an extremely broad sense. The term indication may among other things encompass a sign symptom or token of something else.

The term indication may be used to refer to any indicia and or other information indicative of or associated with a subject item entity and or other object and or idea.

As used herein the phrases information indicative of and indicia may be used to refer to any information that represents describes and or is otherwise associated with a related entity subject or object.

Indicia of information may include for example a code a reference a link a signal an identifier and or any combination thereof and or any other informative representation associated with the information.

In some embodiments indicia of information or indicative of the information may be or include the information itself and or any portion or component of the information. In some embodiments an indication may include a request a solicitation a broadcast and or any other form of information gathering and or dissemination.

Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than one of a feature e.g. a limitation such as at least one widget covers one widget as well as more than one widget and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim the second claim uses a definite article the to refer to the limitation e.g. the widget this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature and this does not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature e.g. the widget can cover both one widget and more than one widget .

When an ordinal number such as first second third and so on is used as an adjective before a term that ordinal number is used unless expressly specified otherwise merely to indicate a particular feature such as to distinguish that particular feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example a first widget may be so named merely to distinguish it from e.g. a second widget . Thus the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget 1 does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location 2 does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time and 3 does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other as in importance or quality. In addition the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.

When a single device or article is described herein more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may alternatively be used in place of the single device article that is described. Accordingly the functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device article whether or not they cooperate .

Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate a single device article may alternatively be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For example a plurality of computer based devices may be substituted with a single computer based device. Accordingly the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device article.

The functionality and or the features of a single device that is described may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments need not include the described device itself but rather can include the one or more other devices which would in those other embodiments have such functionality features.

Neither the Title set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present application nor the Abstract set forth at the end of the present application is to be taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention s . An Abstract has been included in this application merely because an Abstract of not more than 150 words is required under 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b .

The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the present application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Numerous embodiments are described in the present application and are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not and are not intended to be limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention s are widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed invention s may be practiced with various modifications and alterations such as structural logical software and electrical modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention s may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and or drawings it should be understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described unless expressly specified otherwise.

No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present application constitutes the invention claimed herein or is essential to the invention claimed herein or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein except where it is either expressly stated to be so in this specification or expressly recited in a claim.

All words in every claim have the broadest scope of meaning they would have been given by a person of ordinary skill in the art as of the priority date. No term used in any claim is specially defined or limited by this application except where expressly so stated either in this specification or in a claim.

The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes benefits and possible uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.

The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the invention s . Also the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention s which must be present in all embodiments.

Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a machine in communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for long period of time e.g. weeks at a time . In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply that all or even any of such components features are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention s . Unless otherwise specified explicitly no component feature is essential or required.

Although process steps algorithms or the like may be described in a particular sequential order such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.

Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps that does not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly no step is essential or required.

Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other products or methods in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods. For example such interaction may include linking one business model to another business model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.

Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components aspects qualities characteristics and or features that does not indicate that any or all of the plurality are preferred essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.

An enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. Likewise an enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the enumerated list a computer a laptop a PDA does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.

An enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.

All embodiments are illustrative and do not imply that the invention or any embodiments were made or performed as the case may be.

It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various processes described herein may be implemented by e.g. appropriately programmed general purpose computers special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor e.g. one or more microprocessors one or more microcontrollers one or more digital signal processors will receive instructions e.g. from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.

A processor means one or more microprocessors central processing units CPUs computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices or any combination thereof.

Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include e.g. a processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the process.

Further programs that implement such methods as well as other types of data may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media e.g. computer readable media in a number of manners. In some embodiments hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with some or all of the software instructions that can implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus various combinations of hardware and software may be used instead of software only.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium a plurality of the same or a combination of different media that participate in providing data e.g. instructions data structures which may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data e.g. sequences of instructions to a processor. For example data may be i delivered from RAM to a processor ii carried over a wireless transmission medium iii formatted and or transmitted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 SAP ATP Bluetooth and TCP IP TDMA CDMA and 3G and or iv encrypted to ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.

Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer readable medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer readable medium can store in any appropriate format those program elements which are appropriate to perform the method.

Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the described steps are required embodiments of an apparatus include a computer computing device operable to perform some but not necessarily all of the described process.

Likewise just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the described steps are required embodiments of a computer readable medium storing a program or data structure include a computer readable medium storing a program that when executed can cause a processor to perform some but not necessarily all of the described process.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by e.g. tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as the described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device which accesses data in such a database.

Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment including a computer that is in communication e.g. via a communications network with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via any wired or wireless medium e.g. the Internet LAN WAN or Ethernet Token Ring a telephone line a cable line a radio channel an optical communications line commercial on line service providers bulletin board systems a satellite communications link a combination of any of the above . Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other computing devices such as those based on the Intel Pentium or Centrino processor that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be in communication with the computer.

In an embodiment a server computer or centralized authority may not be necessary or desirable. For example the present invention may in an embodiment be practiced on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment any functions described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as stored on the server computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.

Where a process is described in an embodiment the process may operate without any user intervention. In another embodiment the process includes some human intervention e.g. a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human .

The present disclosure provides to one of ordinary skill in the art an enabling description of several embodiments and or inventions. Some of these embodiments and or inventions may not be claimed in the present application but may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present application. Applicant intends to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.

In a claim a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase means for or the phrase step for means that 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 applies to that limitation.

In a claim a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase means for or the phrase step for means that 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 does not apply to that limitation regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation of structure material or acts for performing that function. For example in a claim the mere use of the phrase step of or the phrase steps of in referring to one or more steps of the claim or of another claim does not mean that 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 applies to that step s .

With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 the corresponding structure material or acts described in the specification and equivalents thereof may perform additional functions as well as the specified function.

Computers processors computing devices and like products are structures that can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a specified function by executing one or more programs such as a program stored in a memory device of that product or in a memory device which that product accesses. Unless expressly specified otherwise such a program need not be based on any particular algorithm such as any particular algorithm that might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different algorithms and any of a number of different algorithms would be a mere design choice for carrying out the specified function.

Therefore with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 structure corresponding to a specified function includes any product programmed to perform the specified function. Such structure includes programmed products which perform the function regardless of whether such product is programmed with i a disclosed algorithm for performing the function ii an algorithm that is similar to a disclosed algorithm or iii a different algorithm for performing the function.

Numerous references to a particular embodiment does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of additional different embodiments and similarly references to the description of embodiments which all include a particular feature does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal in the present application shall be prefaced by the phrase does not include or by the phrase cannot perform .

Any patent patent application or other document referred to herein is incorporated by reference into this patent application as part of the present disclosure but only for purposes of written description in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 1 and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 1 and should in no way be used to limit define or otherwise construe any term of the present application where the present application without such incorporation by reference would not have failed to provide an ascertainable meaning but rather would have allowed an ascertainable meaning for such term to be provided. Thus the person of ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any way limited by any embodiments provided in the reference.

Any incorporation by reference does not in and of itself imply any endorsement of ratification of or acquiescence in any statements opinions arguments or characterizations contained in any incorporated patent patent application or other document unless explicitly specified otherwise in this patent application.

In interpreting the present application which includes the claims one of ordinary skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present application but not to the prosecution history of any other patent or patent application regardless of whether there are other patent applications that are considered related to the present application.

The present invention relates to electronic systems and methods for obtaining trading exclusivity and or trading priority in electronic trading systems.

In electronic trading systems that include bids and offers for items a bid or offer that is entered by a participant may typically be entered as available referred to alternatively hereinafter as clear to trade to other participants. Nevertheless certain known trading systems may restrict the availability to certain participant s under certain conditions. For example a Bid Offer may be available only to the current market participants i.e. those with current commitments bids offers . Accordingly preferably only those customers with current participation can hit or lift these incoming entries. Such bids offers may be considered unclear i.e. not available to all trading participants.

In one type of trading system the uncleared bids become available to participants other than the current participants only after a preset or predetermined time interval has expired tracked by a internal system clock or other suitable device .

One criteria that may affect order priority e.g. the exclusive right of certain participants to trade on incoming orders is the respective priority of participants following the transition from a first trading state to a second trading state. For the purposes of this application a trading state is defined as a set of rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants.

It would be desirable to provide systems and methods that further define the rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants when the system transitions from one trading state to a second trading state.

It would be desirable to provide systems and methods that further define the rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants when the system transitions from one trading state to a second trading state.

Systems and methods for trading an item in an electronic trading system are provided. A method according to the invention preferably includes transitioning the trading system from a first trading state to a second trading state. Once the trading system has transitioned to the second state the method includes determining whether an existing order qualifies for trading rights i.e. trading priority and or exclusivity in the second trading state. This determining of trading rights in the second trading state is preferably based on the status of trading rights in the first trading state and also a set of predetermined criteria with respect to an incoming contra order i.e. an order on the other side of a trade or active market e.g. a bid is contra to an offer or other instruction to sell an offer is contra to a bid or instruction to buy in the second trading state. If the existing order qualifies for trading rights then the system preferably presents the incoming contra order for trading exclusively or semi exclusively to the participant associated with the existing order.

In one aspect of the invention trading rules according to the invention disclosed herein relate to being first on the follow . These first on the follow rules relate to the respective priority of participants following the transition from a first trading state to a second trading state for the purposes of this application a trading state is defined as a set of rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants transition from one trading state to a second trading state signifies transitioning from one set of rules or conditions to a second set of rules or conditions . First on the follow rules relate in large part to identifying the participant that will have the right to trade exclusively semi exclusively i.e. the exclusive bidder on incoming offers and the exclusive offeror on incoming bids at the commencement of the new state. It should be noted that in some embodiments of the invention the first on the follow participant may be granted exclusive or semi exclusive rights depending on the rules of the trading system. Any references herein or in the figures to exclusive rights should be understood to refer to either an exclusive or semi exclusive set of rights.

Typically first on the follow priority rights are obtained by the participants identified as the best bidder and the best offeror the term best being defined as highest bidder buyer with respect to price time priority and lowest offeror seller with respect to price time priority at the conclusion of the first trade state. In first on the follow rules according to the invention participants that were previously identified as the best bidder and best offeror at the conclusion of the first trade state may only obtain the first on the follow rights in the second trade state if the best bidder and the best offeror satisfy either a certain minimum order size requirement are within a certain predetermined delta as described in more detail below of the best bidder and the best offeror respectively or satisfy a combination of the minimum order size requirement and the predetermined delta restriction.

Alternatively an additional restriction with respect to obtaining first on the follow rights may relate to the amount purchased or sold during the first trade state by the prospective first on the follow participant. It should be noted that first on the follow rights may obtain a particular advantage for the participant at least because these rights in some embodiments of the invention may entitle the participants to priority with respect to any incoming orders at the commencement of the second trading state.

With respect to hidden size as described below a participant s hidden size may be considered in satisfying the participant s minimum size requirement for obtaining first on the follow rights.

In yet another rule according to the invention if a participant satisfies first on the follow requirements then the participant may have a preset instruction to the system to either reduce his bid by a predetermined increment or increase his offer by an increment in the second trading state. Preferably the respective increase or decrease reduces his exposure to an incoming order while maintaining his first on the follow position and the trading privileges such as for example the exclusive right to trade against incoming orders associated therewith. Alternatively exposure may be reduced by reducing the size of the first on the follow order.

In an alternative embodiment the order that is first on the follow should preferably be within a predetermined delta of the best contra order or the incoming order should preferably satisfy some combination of the threshold size and the predetermined delta in order to only be shown to or alternatively to only be available to be traded by select participants that are first on the follow.

With respect to yet another embodiment of the invention hidden size i.e. a portion of the order that is not shown to the rest of the participants but if acted upon is tradable may also count toward satisfying the minimum size requirement of the order either as the first on the follow order or the current order in the system.

Yet another aspect of the invention provides rules associated with a method that restricts all incoming orders to a select number of traders. For example the exclusive bidder or offeror preferably has an option to exclusively trade on an incoming order although another participant is behind the exclusive bidder or offeror and has the ability to indicate a willingness to hit the incoming bid or lift the incoming offer if the exclusive bidder or offeror refuses to act on the incoming order. In one rule according to the invention the exclusive bidder or offeror may preferably set or have set his respective default position to trade on an incoming bid or offer when there is another participant who has indicated a willingness to hit the incoming bid or lift the incoming offer. Thus the default position becomes a take when another party has indicated that he is willing . . . taken or hit when another party has indicated that he is willing . . . hit. 

This rule may preferably be implemented in at least a state where bids and offers are posted i.e. a bid offer state as well as a state wherein trades actually occur and bids and offers are matched.

It should be noted that the default position described herein for the take when taken or hit when hit order may preferably be further restricted to only act when the incoming order is a predetermined delta as described in more detail above from the headline price see element in in bid offer state or the trading price in the state in which matches occur.

Referring to exemplary system for implementing the present invention is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one or more communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to server . Server is linked via communications link to back office clearing center .

In system server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same. Server and back office clearing center may form part of the electronic trading system. Furthermore server may also contain an electronic trading system and application programming interface and merely transmit a Graphical User Interface or other display screens to the user at the user workstation or the Graphical User Interface may reside on Workstation .

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

Workstations may be personal computers laptop computers mainframe computers dumb terminals data displays Internet browsers Personal Digital Assistants PDAs two way pagers wireless terminals portable telephones programmed computers having memory the programmed computer using the memory for implementing trading models etc. or any combination of the same. Workstations may be used to implement the electronic trading system application and application programming interface according to the invention.

Back office clearing center may be any suitable equipment such as a computer a laptop computer a mainframe computer etc. or any combination of the same for causing transactions to be cleared through a clearinghouse and or verifying that transactions are cleared through a clearinghouse. This clearing is not to be confused with being clear to trade which is defined in more detail above. Communications link may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between server and back office clearing center such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

The server the back office clearing center and one of the workstations which are depicted in are illustrated in more detail in . Referring to workstation may include processor display input device and memory which may be interconnected. In a preferred embodiment memory contains a storage device for storing a workstation program for controlling processor . The storage device may include software stored on a suitable storage medium such as a disk. Memory also preferably contains an electronic trading system application according to the invention.

Electronic trading system application may preferably include application program interface or alternatively as described above electronic trading system application may be resident in the memory of server . In this embodiment the electronic trading system may contain application program interface as a discrete application from the electronic trading system application which also may be included therein. The only distribution to the user may then be a Graphical User Interface which allows the user to interact with electronic trading system application resident at server .

Processor uses the workstation program to present on display electronic trading system application information relating to market conditions received through communication link and trading commands and values transmitted by a user of workstation . Furthermore input device may be used to manually enter commands and values in order for these commands and values to be communicated to the electronic trading system.

Typically an incoming order that is not clear to trade is indicated by a visual indicator e.g. an asterisk preferably adjacent to the price associated with the new order See asterisk adjacent to price in . In the embodiment shown in in the particular circumstance where only a portion of an order is not cleared to trade a visual indicator may be displayed in bid and offer stacks and adjacent the volume of the partially cleared order to indicate that only a portion of the order is cleared to be traded or in some other suitable location which differentiates the partially cleared order from the totally uncleared order or from the totally clear order.

Step queries whether a first on the follow order in the system satisfies a minimum size requirement. Step shows that if the first on the follow order satisfies the minimum size requirement then the participant associated with the first on the follow order is rewarded with exclusive rights to trade against the incoming contra order assuming in certain embodiments that the incoming order has price time priority over other current orders and that the incoming order also satisfies the minimum size requirement see and the corresponding text .

It should be noted that each of share similar steps X X and X. The FIGS. are differentiated for the most part based on the query step of X in which each flow chart describes a unique query.

It should be noted that each of the different query steps in may be used simultaneously with one another to provide multiple queries that are combined to determine whether any first on the follow order or alternatively any incoming order is rewarded with exclusivity. Thus the trading system may query numerous different queries before a current participant associated with a current order is awarded exclusive or semi exclusive rights to trade with an incoming order.

It should be noted that this particular feature is not limited to first on the follow but in fact extends to any suitable trading situation. Thus any bid or offer could be placed whereby the bid is only active if another bid having inferior trading rights because for example the inferior bid was later in time is at the same price and has indicated a willingness to trade.

As such according to an embodiment of the invention as shown in the trading system may be in a first state such as a state that allows trading and negotiation between participants hereinafter referred to as a trading negotiation state . At the conclusion of this state the system may transition to a second state such as a bid offer state. At the transition the system may initially identify determine a first on the follow order bid which may be a bid from among existing pending bids at the completion of the trading negotiation state and award the participant associated with this bid with exclusive first on the follow rights in the bid offer state with respect to an incoming contra order offer e.g. a trading priority in the second state such as an exclusive right to trade on an incoming contra order offer if the size of the bid satisfies a minimum size requirement. As an example the exclusive first on the follow rights may be such that the incoming contra offer is only shown to the participant and or is only available to be traded on by the participant. According to an embodiment of the invention a hidden size of the bid may also count towards satisfying the minimum size requirement. According to an embodiment of the invention if the first on the follow bid does not satisfy a minimum size requirement no participant on the bid side of the market may be awarded exclusive first on the follow rights and the incoming offers may be clear to all participants. Similarly at the transition of the trading negotiation state to the bid offer state the system may also identify a first on the follow order offer which may be an offer from among the existing pending offers and award the participant associated with this offer with exclusive first on the follow rights in the bid offer state with respect to an incoming contra order bid e.g. a trading priority in the second state such as an exclusive right to trade to trade on the incoming contra order bid if the size of the offer satisfies a minimum size requirement. Again a hidden size of the offer may also count towards satisfying the minimum size requirement. If the first on the follow offer does not satisfy a minimum size requirement no participant on the offer side of the market may be rewarded first on the follow rights and all incoming bids may be clear to all participants.

According to an embodiment of the invention a first on the follow bid and a first on the follow offer may be identified determined at the transition from a first state to a second state based on a status of trading rights in the first state. A status of trading rights in the first state may include a prioritization at the completion of the first state of participants based on a prioritization e.g. resulting from this first state of the existing pending bids and similarly the existing pending offers associated with these participants. For example a prioritization among existing bids and similarly existing offers may be based on price and time. Here a best existing bid offer may be the bid offer with the most aggressive price and if the same price then the best or oldest price time priority. As stated before traditionally the best bid is the highest bid price and the best offer the lowest offer price commonly referred to as Dollar Price but alternatively for securities whereby their price is expressed inversely for example securities priced in terms of yield prioritization among existing bids and similarly existing offers may be reversed and as such a best existing bid may be the bid with the most aggressive lowest yield e.g. a best existing bid may be a bid with the lowest yield a bidder may accept and a best existing offer may be the offer with the most aggressive highest yield e.g. a best existing offer may be an offer with the highest yield a seller may sell securities at . For description purposes the present invention will be described with respect to securities that are expressed as prices Dollar Price . However one skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention is also applicable to securities whereby their price is expressed in terms of yield.

According to one embodiment of the invention at the transition from a first state such as a trading negotiation state to a second state such as a bid offer state the best existing bid may be identified as the first on the follow bid and the best existing offer may be identified as the first on the follow offer again one skilled in the art will recognize that other criteria may be used . One skilled in the art will recognize that an existing bid and an existing offer may be a best bid and a best offer as a result of various transactions during a trading negotiation state. For example as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 560 580 a bid and or an offer during a trading negotiation state may not be filled and or completely filled resulting in the bid and or offer being an existing best bid existing best offer in the immediately subsequent bid offer state. Similarly a hit sell and or take lift buy during a trading negotiation state may not be filled and or completely filled resulting in the hit and or take being an existing best bid existing best offer in the immediately subsequent bid offer state. According to an embodiment of the invention and as discussed above if the size of the best existing bid satisfies a minimum size requirement the participant associated with this bid may be awarded first on the follow rights in the bid offer state e.g. an exclusive right to trade with an incoming contra offer . Alternatively if the size of the best existing bid does not satisfy a minimum size requirement no participant on the bid side of the market may be rewarded first on the follow rights and all incoming offers may be clear to all participants. Similarly if the size of the best existing offer satisfies a minimum size requirement the participant associated with this offer may be rewarded first on the follow rights in the bid offer state regarding an incoming contra bid. Alternatively if the size of the best existing offer does not satisfy a minimum size requirement no participant on the offer side of the market may be rewarded first on the follow rights and all incoming bids may be clear to all participants.

According to another embodiment of the invention if the bid identified as the first on the follow bid does not satisfy a minimum size requirement rather than awarding no participant with first on the follow rights a different bid existing at the state transition may be identified as a first on the follow bid e.g. the bid with the next best price time priority . If the size of this second identified bid satisfies a minimum size requirement the participant associated with the bid may be awarded with first on the follow rights in the second state regarding an incoming contra offer. Alternatively if the size of the bid does not satisfy a minimum size requirement another bid existing at the state transition may be identified as a first on the follow bid etc. A similar procedure may be followed regarding a first on the follow participant on the offer side of the market.

According to another embodiment of the invention as the trading system transitions from a first state to a second state the system may identify a first on the follow bid e.g. based on a status of trading rights in the first state and award the participant associated with this bid with first on the follow rights in the second state if the participant met certain transaction criteria in the first state. One skilled in the art will recognize that different transaction criteria may be used. According to one embodiment of the invention the transaction criteria may be that the participant must have purchased at least a minimum size requirement in the first state. For example according to one embodiment of the invention as the trading system transitions from a first state such as a trading negotiation state to a second state such as a bid offer state the system may identify the best existing bid as the first on the follow bid and award the participant associated with this bid with first on the follow rights in the bid offer state if the participant purchased at least a minimum size requirement in the preceding trading state. Similarly as the trading system transitions from a first state such as a trading negotiation state to a second state such as a bid offer state the system may identify a first on the follow offer e.g. based on a status of trading rights in the first trading state such as the best existing offer and award the participant associated with this offer with first on the follow rights in the second trading state if the participant sold a minimum size requirement in the first state.

According to an embodiment of the invention if the participant associated with the identified first on the follow bid first on the follow offer does not satisfy the transaction criteria from the first state e.g. a minimum purchase sell size requirement no participant on the respective bid side offer side of the market may be awarded first on the follow rights and all incoming offers bids may be clear to all participants.

According to another embodiment of the invention if the participant associated with the identified first on the follow bid first on the follow offer does not satisfy the transaction criteria from the first state rather than awarding no participant with first on the follow rights on the respective side of the market a different bid offer may be identified as the first on the follow bid first on the follow offer and the participant associated therewith awarded with first on the follow rights in the second state if the participant met the transaction criteria in the first state e.g. purchased sold a minimum size requirement in the first state etc.

According to another embodiment of the invention as the trading system transitions from a first state such as a trading negotiation state to a second state such as a bid offer state the system may identify a first on the follow bid e.g. based on a status of trading rights in the first state such as a best bid and award the participant associated with this bid with first on the follow rights in the bid offer state if the price of the bid meets a price criteria with respect to a price of a trade in the trading state. One skilled in the art will recognize that different price criteria may be used. According to one embodiment of the invention the price criteria may be that the price of the first on the follow bid must within a predetermined price delta e.g. difference of a price of a trade in the trading state. Similarly as the trading system transitions from a first state such as a trading negotiation state to a second state such as a bid offer state the system may also identify a first on the follow offer e.g. based on a status of trading rights in the first trading state such as the best existing offer and award the participant associated with this offer with first on the follow rights in the second trading state if the offer meets a price criteria with respect to a price of a trade in the trading state.

According to an embodiment of the invention the respective price in the first state to which the first on the follow bid first on the follow offer may be compared may be a bid price an offer price a take price and or a hit price. According to another embodiment of the invention the respective price from the trading state may be an average of multiple bid prices offer prices take prices and or hit prices. According to another embodiment of the invention the respective price from the trading state may be an average of any combination of bid prices offer prices take prices and or hit prices. According to another embodiment of the invention the respective price from the trading state may be a bid price an offer price a take price and or a hit price associated with a first or last trade in the trading state. One skilled in the art will recognize that other prices from the first state trading state may be used.

According to an embodiment of the invention if the identified first on the follow bid first on the follow offer does not satisfy the price criteria no participant on the respective bid side offer side of the market may be awarded first on the follow rights in the second state and all incoming offers bids may be clear to all participants. According to another embodiment of the invention if the identified first on the follow bid first on the follow offer does not satisfy the price criteria rather than awarding no participant with first on the follow rights on the respective side of the market a different bid offer may be identified as the first on the follow bid first on the follow offer and the participant associated therewith awarded with first on the follow rights in the second state if the first on the follow bid first on the follow offer meets the price criteria etc.

According to another embodiment of the invention as the trading system transitions from a first state to a second state the system may identify all participants with existing pending bids and award one of these identified participants with first on the follow rights to exclusively trade against an incoming contra offer in the second state based on criteria related to transactions in the first state. Similarly the system may identify all participants with existing offers and reward one of these identified participants with first on the follow rights to exclusively trade against an incoming contra bid in the second state based on criteria related to transactions in the first state. For example according to an embodiment of the invention the system may determine which participant among the identified participants purchased the most and similarly sold the most during the first state and award that participant with first on the follow rights in the second state. According to another embodiment of the invention the system may determine which participant among the identified participants made the earliest e.g. first or the latest e.g. last purchase and similarly the earliest or the latest sale during the first state and reward that participant with first on the follow rights in the second state. According to a further embodiment of the invention the system may determine which participant among the identified participants made the earliest or the latest purchase of at least a minimum size requirement and similarly the earliest or the latest sale of at least a minimum size requirement during the first state and reward that participant with first on the follow rights in the second state. One skilled in the art will recognize that other criteria based on transactions in the first state may be used to select a participant to be awarded with first on the follow rights.

According to another embodiment of the invention any combination of the above described ways and other ways for awarding a participant with first on the follow rights in a second state may be used.

According to another embodiment of the invention as shown in as the trading system transitions from a first state to a second state the system may award a participant with an existing order i.e. a first on the follow bid first on the follow offer with first on the follow rights in the second state. However these rights may not ascribe to the participant with respect to an incoming contra order unless the size of the first on the follow order associated with the participant meets a certain size criteria relative to the size of the incoming contra order.

According to an embodiment of the invention any of the above described ways and or other ways may be used to initially award a participant with first on on the follow rights. As a further example as the trading system transitions from a first state to a second state the system may identify a first on the follow order e.g. based on a status of trading rights in the first state such as the best bid best offer and award the participant associated with this order with first on the follow rights in the second state. According to another embodiment of the invention and as shown in for a participant to be initially awarded with first on the follow rights in the second state the first on the follow order associated with the participant must also exceed a minimum size requirement. According to an embodiment of the invention a hidden size of the first on the follow order may count toward satisfying the minimum size requirement. According to an embodiment of the invention if the first on the follow order does not satisfy the minimum size requirement no participant on the respective side of the market may be awarded first on the follow rights and an incoming contra order may be clear to all participants. Alternatively according to another embodiment of the invention a different participant may be awarded with first on the follow rights. One skilled in the art will recognize that criteria other than and or in addition to a minimum size requirement may need to be met before a participant is initially awarded with first on the follow rights.

Again referring to once initially awarding a participant with first on the follow rights in the second state when an incoming contra order is input into the trading system in the second state if the size of the first on the follow order associated with the participant meets a certain size criteria relative to the size of the incoming contra order the participant may be awarded exclusive first on the follow rights on the incoming contra offer. For example according to an embodiment of the invention the size of the first on the follow order must exceed a percentage of the size of the incoming contra order for the participant to have exclusive rights to trade on the contra order. One skilled in the art will recognize that other size criteria may apply. According to an embodiment of the invention a hidden size of the first on the follow order may also count toward satisfying the size requirement of the order. According to an embodiment of the invention if the size of the first on the follow order does not meet the size criteria relative to the size of the incoming contra order no participant on the respective side of the market may be rewarded first on the follow rights and the incoming contra offer may be clear to all participants. Alternatively according to another embodiment of the invention a different participant may be awarded with first on the follow rights with respect to the contra order.

According to another embodiment of the invention as shown in as the trading system transitions from a first state to a second state the system may award a participant with an existing order i.e. a first on the follow bid first on the follow offer with first on the follow rights in the second state. However these rights may not ascribe to the participant with respect to an incoming contra order unless the price of the first on the follow order associated with the participant meets a certain price criteria relative to the price of the incoming contra order. Again one skilled in the art will recognize that various ways may be used to initially award a participant with first on on the follow rights as similarly discussed above with reference to . One skilled in the art will also recognize that additional criteria such as a minimum size requirement may need to be met for a participant to be initially awarded with first on the follow rights as similarly discussed above with reference to .

Again referring to once initially awarding a participant with first on the follow rights in the second state when an incoming contra order is input into the trading system in the second state if the price of the first on the follow order associated with the participant meets a certain price criteria relative to the price of the incoming contra order the participant may be rewarded exclusive first on the follow rights on the incoming order. For example according to an embodiment of the invention the price of the first on the follow order must be within a predetermined price delta e.g. difference from the price of the incoming contra order for the participant to have exclusive rights to trade on the contra order. One skilled in the art will recognize that other price criteria may apply. According to an embodiment of the invention if the price of the first on the follow order does not meet the price criteria relative to the price of the incoming contra order no participant on the respective side of the market may be awarded first on the follow rights and the incoming order may be clear to all participants. Alternatively according to another embodiment of the invention a different participant may be awarded with first on the follow rights with respect to the contra order.

According to another embodiment of the invention any combination of the various ways discussed above in reference to for ascribing first on the follow rights to a participant with respect to an incoming contra order may be used.

According to another embodiment of the invention if there are no existing bids and or no existing offers when transitioning from a first state to a second state no participant on the respective bid side and or offer side of the market may be awarded first on the follow rights upon transitioning from a first state such as a trading negotiation state to the second state such as a bid offer state.

According to another embodiment of the invention during a first state such as a trading negotiation state a participant may have an order e.g. bid offer hit or take that is completely filled. As a result as the trading system transitions to a second state such as a bid offer state the participant may have no existing order at that time and as such may not be able to obtain first on the follow rights upon transitioning to this second state as described above. According to an embodiment of the invention as the trading system transitions from a first state to a second state a participant that may or may not have an existing order but satisfies a status of trading rights in the first state such as had at least one trade matched in the first state may be awarded with first on the follow rights in the second state. According to another embodiment of the invention such a participant may only be awarded with first on the follow rights in the second state if the participant met one or more criteria related to transactions in the first state. For example according to an embodiment of the invention upon transitioning from a first state to a second state a trading system may identify all participants that made a trade e.g. as either a bid or take as either an offer or hit in the first state whether or not they now have an existing order in the second state and awarded one of these participants with first on the follow rights in the second state on the respective side of the market based on for example criteria related to transactions in the first state.

According to an embodiment of the invention various criteria related to transactions in the first state may be used to identify award a participant with first on the follow rights in the second state. For example according to an embodiment of the invention a participant may be awarded with first on the follow rights if the participant made a first or last purchase in the first state made a first or last purchase in the first state that also meets at least a minimum size requirement made a purchase in the first state that also meets at least a minimum size requirement purchased the most in the first state made a first or last purchase in the first state that also meets a certain price requirement and or made a purchase in the first state that also meets a certain price requirement etc. Similar criteria may apply to sales. One skilled in the art will recognize that first on the follow rights may be awarded in other ways.

According to an embodiment of the invention if the participant awarded with the first on the follow rights has an existing order the participant may automatically be awarded the rights. Alternatively if the participant awarded with the rights has no existing order the participant may automatically be awarded with the first on the follow rights without having to enter an order. With respect to first on the follow rights that only ascribe to a participant once a contra order is input into the trading system as described with reference to for example the participant may be considered to have an order at any price and size that is necessary to obtain the rights. Alternatively the participant may be considered to have an order at a default price and size either set by the trading system or specified by the participant.

According to another embodiment of the invention if the participant awarded with the first on the follow rights has no existing order the participant may be given the option to obtain the rights. According to an embodiment of the invention the participant may be given a predetermined time period to make such a decision. According to an embodiment of the invention during this time period and prior to the participant making a decision the participant may be awarded with the first on the follow rights with respect to an incoming contra order. According to an embodiment of the invention the participant may indicate a decision to obtain the first on the follow rights without having to enter an order. According to another embodiment of the invention the participant may need to indicate a decision to obtain the first on the follow rights by inputting within the predetermined time period any order or an order that meets certain criteria such as an order at the current best price an order at a best price an order that has a size that satisfies a minimum size requirement and or an order at a price that meets a price criteria with respect to a price of a trade in the first state etc. One skilled in the art will recognize that other criteria may apply. One skilled in the art will also recognize that a participant may indicate a decision to obtain first on the follow rights in other ways.

According to an embodiment of the invention if a participant is given the option to obtain the first on the follow rights and decides not take accept the rights no participant on the respective side of the market may be awarded with the rights. Alternatively a different participant may be considered.

According to another embodiment of the invention a plurality of participants for example two participants on the same side of the market may be awarded first on the follow rights to trade on an incoming contra order resulting in each participant having semi exclusive rights. For example according to an embodiment of the invention as the trading system transitions from a first state to a second state a first participant having an existing order such as a bid may be initially awarded with first on the follow rights regarding an incoming contra order in the second state based on any of the above described ways or other ways for example. In addition a second participant that has no existing order such as a bid but satisfies a status of trading rights in the first state such as had at least one trade matched e.g. bid hit in the first state may be given the option to obtain the first on the follow rights in the second state. According to another embodiment of the invention such a participant may only be given the option if the participant met one or more criteria related to transactions in the first state. According to an embodiment of the invention various criteria related to transactions in the first state may be used as similarly described above e.g. the participant may have made the first or last trade may have made a trade and or the first or last trade that also meets a minimum size and or price requirement and or may have made the largest trade and now has no remaining order . According to an embodiment of the invention it is possible that no second participant is identified because for example no participant without an existing order meets certain designated criteria.

According to an embodiment of the invention assuming a second participant is identified and is given the option to obtain the first on the follow rights the second participant may be given a predetermined time period to make such a decision. According to an embodiment of the invention during this time period and prior to the second participant making a decision this second participant and the first participant may each be awarded with first on the follow rights with respect to an incoming contra order. As such during this time period the two participants may have trading priority semi exclusive rights. With respect to first on the follow rights that only ascribe to a participant once a contra order is input into the trading system as described with reference to for example the second participant may be considered to have an order at any price and size that is necessary to obtain the rights. Alternatively the participant may be considered to have an order at a default price and size either set by the trading system or specified by the participant.

According to an embodiment of the invention preferably the participant first to act on an incoming contra order executes the order.

According to an embodiment of the invention if the second participant decides to obtain the first on the follow rights within the predetermined time period this second participant may be awarded exclusive first on the follow rights with the first participant losing the rights. According to a further embodiment of the invention if the second participant decides not to obtain the first on the follow rights within the predetermined time period this first participant may then be awarded exclusive first on the follow rights.

According to one embodiment of the invention for the second participant to indicate a decision to obtain the first on the follow rights the participant may need to input within the predetermined time period any order or alternatively an order that meets certain criteria as similarly described above. According to another embodiment of the invention the participant may express a desire to obtain the rights without having to enter an order as similarly described above. In the latter case with respect to first on the follow rights that only ascribe to a participant once a contra order is input into the trading system as described with reference to for example the participant may be considered to have an order at any price and size that is necessary to obtain the rights. Alternatively the participant may be considered to have an order at a default price and size either set by the trading system or specified by the participant.

According to another embodiment of the invention a participant awarded with exclusive semi exclusive first on the follow rights as described above may hold these rights indefinitely until an incoming contra order at a best price or alternatively a best yield for example is input by another participant. Upon input of a contra order at the best price the first on the follow participant may have a predetermined amount of time in which the exclusive semi exclusive rights hold and in which to hit take the contra order. If the participant does not hit take the contra order during this time the contra order may become available clear to other participants. According to embodiment of the invention if no other participant hits takes the contra order the original first on the follow participant with exclusive semi exclusive first on the follow rights may retain these rights with respect to a next subsequently incoming contra order at the best price. According to another embodiment of the invention if no other participant hits takes the contra order the original first on the follow participant with exclusive semi exclusive first on the follow rights may not retain these rights with respect to the next subsequently incoming contra order at the best price.

According to another embodiment of the invention while in the second state a participant that was awarded exclusive semi exclusive first on the follow rights as discussed above may lose those rights assuming there is currently no contra order to which the participant has rights to a second participant as a result of for example the second participant inputting an order on the same side of the market. For example the second participant may be awarded exclusive first on the follow rights if the participant inputs a new best bid or a new best offer and or the size of that new bid or new offer satisfies a minimum size requirement.

According to another embodiment of the invention even though a participant may be awarded exclusive semi exclusive first on the follow rights with respect to an incoming contra order in a second state the participant may not have these rights with respect to a particular incoming contra order unless the order meets certain criteria. For example according to an embodiment of the invention for a participant to have first on the follow rights to an incoming contra order the order must have price and or time priority over other current contra orders. If the incoming order does not have price and or time priority over other current contra orders the order may be clear to all participants.

According to another embodiment of the invention as shown in for a participant to have first on the follow rights to an incoming contra order the order must satisfy at least a minimum size requirement e.g. exceed a predetermined size requirement . According to an embodiment of the invention a hidden size of the incoming contra order may also count towards satisfying the minimum size requirement. If the incoming order does not satisfy the minimum size requirement the order may be clear to all participants. As such a trading system according to an embodiment of the invention may effectively only ascribes first on the follow rights when it is deemed worthwhile to do so.

According to another embodiment of the invention as shown in for a participant to have first on the follow rights to an incoming contra order the order must satisfy a size criteria relative to the size of the order of the first on the follow participant. For example according to an embodiment of the invention the size of the incoming contra order must exceed a predetermined percentage of the size of the first on the follow participant s order for the participant to have first on the follow rights to the incoming contra order. One skilled in the art will recognize that other size criteria may apply. According to an embodiment of the invention a hidden size of the incoming contra order may also count towards satisfying the size requirement. If the incoming order does not satisfy the size requirement the order may be clear to all participants.

According to another embodiment of the invention as shown in for a participant to have first on the follow rights to an incoming contra order the order must satisfy a price criteria relative to the price of the order of the first on the follow participant. For example according to an embodiment of the invention the price of the incoming contra order must within a predetermined price delta e.g. difference of the price of the first on the follow participant s order for the participant to have first on the follow rights to the incoming contra order. One skilled in the art will recognize that other price criteria may apply. According to an embodiment of the invention if the incoming order does not satisfy the price criteria the order may be clear to all participants.

According to another embodiment of the invention for a participant to have first on the follow rights to an incoming contra order the order must satisfy any combination of criteria such as those discussed above.

According to another embodiment of the invention as shown in for a participant that has an order e.g. a first on the follow order and that obtains exclusive semi exclusive first on the follow rights in the second state to protect the participant s exposure the participant s order may be modified without affecting the participant s first on the follow rights to trade on an incoming contra order. The participant s order may be modified such that the size of the order is reduced by some percentage amount and or the price of the order is increased in the case of an offer decreased in the case of a bid by some price delta. According to an embodiment of the invention the trading system may be configured to automatically modify the size and or price of the order each by a predetermined size percentage or price delta which percentage or delta may be pre configured in the system by an administrator for example or individually configured by each participant for example . According to another embodiment of the invention each participant may enable disable the trading system to automatically modify the size and or price of the participant s order each by a predetermined size percentage or price delta which percentage or delta may be configured by each participant for example . According to another embodiment of the invention upon the participant obtaining the first on the follow rights for example the trading system may prompt the participant to modify the size and or price of the participant s order.

According to an embodiment of the invention with respect to first on the follow rights that only ascribe to a participant once a contra order is input into the trading system as described with reference to for example the participant s unmodified order may be used to determine if the participant obtains the rights with respect to a given incoming contra order.

According to an embodiment of the invention the awarding of first on the follow rights and or the trading system transitioning from the first state to the second state may trigger the modification of the first on the follow participant s order either by automatically modifying the order or prompting the participant to have the order modified as discussed above. According to another embodiment of the invention the input of any incoming contra order in the second state may trigger modification of the first on the follow participant s order. According to another embodiment of the invention the input of an incoming contra order in the second state to which the first on the follow participant has first on the follow rights may trigger modification of the first on the follow participant s order. According to a further embodiment of the invention the trading on an incoming contra order in the second state may trigger the modification of the first on the follow participant s order. One skilled in the art will recognize that other events may be used to trigger the modification of a first on the follow participant s order.

According to another embodiment of the invention rather than the first on the follow participant s order being modified as discussed above the order may be removed without affecting the participant s first on the follow rights to trade on an incoming contra order. Such a feature may give the appearance to a participant inputting a contra order that orders are falling away in the market. The trading system may be configured to remove a first on the follow order as similarly described above. According to a preferred embodiment of the invention the initial input of a contra order to which the first on the follow participant has first on the follow rights may trigger the removing of the first on the follow order. Nonetheless any of the above described triggering events or others may cause the order to be removed. According to an embodiment of the invention with respect to first on the follow rights that only ascribe to a participant once a contra order is input into the trading system as described with reference to for example the participant s original order may be used to determine if the participant obtains the first on the follow rights with respect to a given incoming contra order.

According to another embodiment of the invention a trading system may be configured such the first on the follow participant s order is automatically modified such as upon input of trading on the contra order only when the contra order meets certain predetermined criteria such as price and or size criteria as similarly described above. These price and or size criteria may be default configured by the system and or stipulated by the participant.

According to another embodiment of the invention as shown in for a participant that has obtained exclusive first on the follow rights with respect to an incoming contra order including if necessary an order that meets required criteria as discussed above with respect to a trading system may be configured such that the system automatically causes the first on the follow participant to trade on the incoming contra order when a second participant indicates a willingness to trade on the contra order. According to an embodiment of the invention the contra order may not be clear to the second participant. According to an embodiment of the invention the trading system may be default configured to automatically cause a first on the follow participant to trade on an incoming contra order when a second participant indicates a willingness to trade on the contra order. According to another embodiment of the invention each participant may enable disable the trading system to automatically cause the participant upon obtaining the first on the follow rights to trade in this manner on an incoming contra order when a second participant indicates a willingness to trade on the contra order. According to another embodiment of the invention upon a participant obtaining the exclusive first on the follow rights the trading system may prompt the participant to enable the trading system to automatically cause the participant to trade on an incoming contra order when another participant shows a willingness to trade on the contra order.

According to another embodiment of the invention for a participant that has obtained exclusive first on the follow rights with respect to an incoming contra order rather than a trading system automatically causing the participant to automatically trade on the incoming contra order when a second participant indicates a willingness to trade on the contra order the system may only trade on the contra order in these circumstances if the contra order meets certain predetermined criteria such as price and or size criteria as similarly described above. These price and or size criteria may be default configured by the system and or stipulated by the participant.

According to another embodiment of the invention a trading system may be configured such that for a first on the follow participant that has an order removed as described above or has no first on the follow order as described above the system may automatically cause the first on the follow participant to trade on an incoming contra order to which the participant has obtained exclusive first on the follow rights when another participant indicates a willingness to trade on the contra order even though the first on the follow participant has no order.

Thus systems and method for defining criteria for obtaining exclusive priority in electronic trading systems have been provided. It will be understood that the foregoing is only illustrative of the principles of the invention and that various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

