---

title: Heat and mass exchanger
abstract: A mass and heat exchanger includes at least one first substrate with a surface for supporting a continuous flow of a liquid thereon that either absorbs, desorbs, evaporates or condenses one or more gaseous species from or to a surrounding gas; and at least one second substrate operatively associated with the first substrate. The second substrate includes a surface for supporting the continuous flow of the liquid thereon and is adapted to carry a heat exchange fluid therethrough, wherein heat transfer occurs between the liquid and the heat exchange fluid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966841&OS=07966841&RS=07966841
owner: AIL Research, Inc
number: 07966841
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070614
---
This is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 264 590 filed Nov. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 269 966 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 103 136 filed Apr. 11 2005 now abandoned which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 561 182 filed Apr. 9 2004.

The invention described and claimed herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention is made with Government support under SBIR Grant No.DE FG02 03ER83600 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to thermodynamic devices and more particularly to a heat and mass exchanger.

Proper ventilation and regulation of humidity are essential for maintaining healthy and comfortable air quality indoors. However these two factors can be in conflict in certain situations. For example when ventilation rates are increased to improve indoor air quality humidity can soar to levels that are uncomfortable or even unhealthy. Nearly all residential heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems are capable of regulating air temperature within acceptable ranges. However few systems are able to effectively regulate air humidity.

People living in the eastern portion of the United States are familiar with the problem of less than adequate humidity control. A rainy summer night with temperatures in the range of upper 60s to low 70s can have a humidity ratio above 0.015 lb lb dewpoint above 68 F. . Since the sun is down and the air temperature is moderate the cooling load on the house is almost zero. If the air conditioner does not run the absolute humidity within the house will equal or exceed that of the outdoors. For a 75 F. indoor temperature the relative humidity will be at least 80 a level that is not only uncomfortable but exceeds the 70 threshold at which mold and mildew proliferate.

Conventional HVAC equipment under such conditions is limited in its ability to restore comfortable air quality. All conventional systems dehumidify by cooling air below its dewpoint. A conventional vapor compression dehumidifier operates by cooling the air to condense the water vapor and thereafter re heating the air. However this process is generally inefficient.

Desiccants provide a very efficient means to control indoor humidity independent of temperature. The concepts described herein integrate desiccant technology with a vapor compression air conditioner to produce a system that yields an enhanced dehumidifier exhibiting higher efficiency.

Attempts have been made to develop vapor compression air conditioners that directly coupled a liquid desiccant to both the evaporator and condenser of the air conditioner. The earliest work was done by John Howell and John Peterson at the University of Texas. The concept involved spraying desiccant directly onto the air conditioner s evaporator and condenser. The process air stream that flows through the evaporator is simultaneously cooled and dehumidified as the desiccant absorbs water vapor from the air. The cooling air that flows through the condenser in addition to carrying away the heat rejected by the air conditioner regenerates the desiccant by carrying away water desorbed by the warm desiccant.

Although Howell and Peterson modeled the performance of a liquid desiccant vapor compression air conditioner LDVCAC that used lithium chloride the prototype that they built and tested used ethylene glycol. Unfortunately the use of glycol as a desiccant was impractical. All glycols have a finite vapor pressure. In both the evaporator and the condenser glycol will evaporate into the air streams thus undesirably requiring periodic recharging of the system.

More recently the Drykor Corporation of Israel introduced several models of liquid desiccant vapor compression air conditioners LDVCAC based on the teachings of U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2002 0116935. The Drykor technology uses lithium chloride as the liquid desiccant. This is an improvement over the Howell and Peterson work since solutions of all ionic salts including lithium chloride do not evaporate the salt i.e. the vapor pressure of an ionic salt is essentially zero.

In the Drykor system the liquid desiccant is first cooled in the evaporator in the form of a refrigerant to desiccant heat exchanger and then the cool desiccant is delivered to a porous bed of contact media where the process air is dried and cooled. Similarly the desiccant is regenerated by first heating it in the condenser in the form of a second refrigerant to desiccant heat exchanger and then flowing the warm desiccant over a porous bed of contact media where a stream of ambient air is flowing therethrough.

The American Genius Corporation AGC is marketing a liquid desiccant air conditioner that functions similarly to the Drykor unit. The AGC system uses a mixture of lithium chloride and lithium bromide as the liquid desiccant.

In one important way the LDVCAC of Howell and Peterson is superior to those of both Drykor and AGC in that the Howell and Peterson system uses the evaporator and condenser of the vapor compression air conditioner as the contact surface for mass and heat exchange between the desiccant and the air streams whereas the other two systems either heat or cool the desiccant and then in separate sections bring the desiccant in contact with the air streams. The LDVCACs of Drykor and AGC therefore introduce additional temperature drops that degrade the efficiency of the air conditioners.

The LDVCAC of Howell and Peterson however cannot be easily used with aqueous solutions of either lithium chloride or lithium bromide because these solutions are very corrosive to the metals that are commonly used to make evaporators and condensers. While the evaporator and condenser can be made from an expensive alloy that resists corrosion the resulting air conditioner would be too expensive to sell in the broad HVAC market. Howell and Peterson suggested that corrosion resistant metallic tubes with plastic or ceramic coated fins may be a compromise surface for combined heat and mass transfer. However these approaches of protecting the evaporator and condenser from corrosion have important limitations plastics have a low surface energy and so are not easily wetted by liquids and ceramics are very difficult to apply in the thin pin hole free coatings needed in this application.

All LDVCACs must also prevent droplets of desiccant from being entrained by the air that flows through the dehumidifying and the regenerating sections of the air conditioner. While it is possible to add a droplet filter or demister at the air exits from both the dehumidifying and regenerating sections of the LDVCAC so that droplets do not escape from the system this approach will create large maintenance requirements associated with keeping the filters unblocked by liquid and increase the pressure drop that must be overcome by the system s fans.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 351 497 and 6 745 826 teach that desiccant droplets can be suppressed in a mass and heat exchanger by flowing very low rates of desiccant onto the surfaces of the mass and heat exchanger and preparing the surfaces so that the low flow of desiccant still provides uniform coverage. This approach to suppressing droplets cannot be used in the LDVCACs proposed by Howell Peterson Drykor or AGC. As previously described in the Drykor and AGC systems the desiccant is first heated or cooled in a refrigerant to desiccant heat exchanger and then the desiccant is brought in contact with air in a bed of porous contact media. The bed is adiabatic i.e. the bed does not exchange thermal energy with the desiccant . The flow rate of desiccant therefore must be high enough to prevent the temperature of the desiccant from either decreasing too much in the regenerating section where the desorption of water is endothermic or increasing too much in the dehumidifying section where the absorption of water is exothermic . This prevents the use of Lowenstein s low flow approach to suppressing droplets.

In the Howell Peterson LDVCAC the contact surface on which the desiccant and air exchange heat and mass is either the surface of the evaporator or the condenser. Thus if these heat exchangers have metallic fins the desiccant will be continually cooled or heated as it interacts with the air. However the Howell Peterson LDVCAC does not readily achieve uniform distribution of the desiccant on the surfaces of the evaporator and condenser. As noted earlier Howell and Peterson propose that the evaporator and condenser can be coated with plastic or ceramic to protect them from a corrosive desiccant. However these coatings do not enhance and may deter the spreading of the desiccant over the external surfaces of the heat exchangers. Furthermore Lowenstein s low flow approach to suppressing droplets would be difficult to implement with plain plastic surfaces.

Howell and Peterson s suggestion that corrosion resistant metallic tubes be used with plastic fins is also disadvantageous because of the poor thermal conductivity of plastics. Although a plastic fin can be used to provide contact between the liquid desiccant and the air that flows over the fin the fin will not effectively heat or cool the desiccant. It is essential in a heat and mass exchanger that the liquid that flows on the fins periodically comes into close thermal contact with the metallic tubes. We have observed that the most common configuration for finned tube HVAC heat exchangers e.g. FIG. 3 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 984 434 in which the tubes pass through holes in the fins will not effectively heat or cool the desiccant if the fins are plastic even if the surface of the fins are treated so that uniform films of desiccant are created. This is because the plastic fins are poor thermal conductors and they provide a path for the desiccant to bypass the tube i.e. the liquid desiccant can flow on a fin from the top of the evaporator condenser to the bottom without ever coming in thermal contact with a metallic tube.

The evaporator and the condenser of a LDVCAC are heat and mass exchangers whereby in the form of an evaporator both thermal energy heat and water vapor mass are absorbed from an air stream and whereby in the form of a condenser both heat and mass are added to an air stream. Many processes in industry rely on mass and heat exchangers and the invention can be used to both lower the cost and improve the efficiency of some of these processes. Examples of processes that may benefit from the invention are 1 evaporative condensers for air conditioners and refrigeration systems 2 gas scrubbers used in emission control systems and gas purification systems 3 desalination plants 4 driers distillers and concentrators where water or other volatile species are removed from a less volatile liquid and 5 absorption chillers.

The heat and mass exchangers for the preceding processes are commonly configured as an array of tubes that can be oriented vertically or horizontally. If the process is endothermic as would be the case for most evaporation distillation or desorption processes the tubes are heated internally through a fluid or condensing vapor such as steam. The second fluid that is to be evaporated or that contains the volatile specie that is to be desorbed flows as a film over the outside of the tubes.

In at least one configuration of a heat and mass exchanger which is described by Goel and Goswami in the Fall 2004 Newsletter of the ASME Solar Energy Division the external surface of the tubes is enhanced with a screen mesh or fabric. For a vertical column of spaced apart horizontal tubes the screen mesh or fabric is interlaced with the tubes so that it alternately contacts the left and right sides of the tubes at a limited region of contact. As an absorbing fluid flows downward in the screen mesh or fabric it contacts each tube in the column in this limited region of contact but the liquid is not forced to flow around the tube.

Accordingly there is a need for a heat and mass exchanger for use in a thermodynamic device that is designed to overcome the limitations described above. There is a need for a heat and mass exchanger that can carry a liquid on the surface of the exchanger that either absorbs desorbs evaporates or condenses one or more gaseous species from or to a surrounding gas such as a process air stream while maintaining the temperature of the liquid at a desired level to improve the efficiency of the heat and mass exchange. There is a further need for a heat and mass exchanger compatible with corrosive liquids such as liquid desiccants and which is capable of suppressing droplet formation of the liquid while maintaining both elevated levels of efficiency and ease of maintenance.

The present invention is directed to a heat and mass exchanger designed to exchange a gas with a liquid while independently maintaining the temperature of the liquid so as to maintain an efficient exchange. By way of example the heat and mass exchanger of the present invention utilizes a liquid desiccant that is capable of altering the water vapor content of a process air stream in an efficient manner. The heat and mass exchanger includes a substrate having a surface capable of supporting the flow of the liquid thereon in contact with a gas the surface further functioning to enhance the exchange of thermal energy between the liquid and a heat exchange fluid gas or liquid or the same undergoing a phase change that flows within the heat and mass exchanger.

In one aspect of the invention there is provided a heat and mass exchanger for exchanging heat and mass between a gas and a liquid comprising 

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided an extruded plate having a longitudinal axis and opposed end portions for use in a heat and mass exchanger comprising 

The present invention is directed to a heat and mass exchanger that can readily be implemented in air conditioning dehumidification and other applications that require the transfer of heat and mass between corresponding fluids. In one embodiment the heat and mass exchanger of the present invention is adapted to facilitate the transfer of a mass in the form of a water vapor between a process air stream and a liquid desiccant while at the same time regulating the exchange of heat. The heat and mass exchanger of the present invention is resistant to corrosive substances including liquid desiccants and is designed to suppress undesirable droplet formation of the liquid control the temperature of the liquid and exhibit good thermodynamic efficiency. The heat and mass exchanger of the present invention is cost efficient to fabricate and implement and requires low maintenance.

The heat and mass exchanger of the present invention can be incorporated into a variety of thermodynamic devices including but not limited to evaporative condensers for air conditioners and refrigeration systems gas scrubbers used in emission control systems and gas purification systems desalination plants driers distillers and concentrators where water or other volatile species is removed from a less volatile liquid and absorption chillers.

In one embodiment of the present invention there is provided a heat and mass exchanger that includes a substrate having a surface capable of supporting a flow of a liquid such as a liquid desiccant thereon while in contact with a gas such as a process air stream wherein the liquid desiccant is capable of modifying the content of a component of the gas such as a water vapor and a heat exchange element having a surface capable of supporting the flow of the liquid desiccant thereon and a heat exchange fluid flowing therein wherein heat energy is transferred between the liquid desiccant and the heat exchange fluid. The substrate is preferably made from a material having a thermal conductivity of less than 10 w m C.

Although not limited to this application the detailed design and operation of the present invention namely a heat and mass exchanger will be described as it is applied to an evaporator of a liquid desiccant vapor compression air conditioner LDVCAC . An evaporator operates to allow a gas such as a process air stream to pass therethrough in contact with a liquid desiccant and absorb water vapor and heat from the passing process air stream. The heat is absorbed in the evaporator by a heat exchange fluid delivered from a condenser in the form of a refrigerant liquid. The heat exchange fluid is metered through a control valve or capillary tube to the evaporator. The pressure within the evaporator is maintained at a low level by a compressor. At low pressure the heat exchange fluid in the form of a liquid begins to boil and absorbs heat from the liquid desiccant and from the process air stream. The reverse process occurs in the heat and mass exchanger operating as a condenser.

Referring to an evaporator is shown for one embodiment of the present invention. The evaporator comprises heat exchange tubes for carrying therethrough a heat exchange fluid in the form of a coolant or evaporating refrigerant for example. The heat exchange tubes are shown circular in cross section but may have other shapes including non circular cross section shapes as desired including an elongated cross section with a major axis of the cross section in a vertical orientation as shown specifically in .

The tubes are arranged horizontally in rows of three stacked upon each other in spaced apart relationship thus forming corresponding columns of tubes. A plurality of substrates into the form of spaced apart fins are disposed between adjacent rows of tubes which separates upper tubes from lower tubes. The number of tubes in each row the number of rows of tubes and the number of fins are not limited to those shown herein and may be modified or adjusted to meet the requirements of the application. The fins are arranged to be at least substantially parallel to one another and preferably equally spaced apart with the space between adjacent fins larger than the thickness of the fin . The fins may be planar bowed corrugated or other suitable shapes.

The fins shown in the embodiment of are arranged at least substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the tubes . The fins include top and bottom edge portions and positioned proximate to the tubes . The tubes may be in contact or separated by a small gap from the corresponding edges and respectively of the fins .

A liquid desiccant delivered from a regenerator not shown by a distribution manifold is carried to distribution tubes . Suitable liquid desiccants may be selected from lithium chloride lithium bromide calcium chloride potassium acetate and the like. The regenerator not shown functions to drive off excess water from the liquid desiccant that may be present prior to delivery to the evaporator . The liquid desiccant is released from the distribution tubes through outlets onto corresponding porous distribution pads . The distribution pads are preferably composed of a porous material such as open cell foams non woven fabrics and the like. The purpose of the pad is to spread the liquid over a relatively large area from a liquid source of smaller area to facilitate distribution of the liquid about the tubes. Each distribution pad is positioned in contact with the corresponding tube . The liquid desiccant disperses throughout the pad and eventually flows onto the outer surface of the top row of the tubes . Through selection of thickness and porosity the distribution pads can be adapted to uniformly distribute the liquid desiccant over at least a substantial portion of the outer surface of the tubes .

In another embodiment of the present invention where the spacing between the tubes is sufficiently close to avoid dripping it may be preferable to utilize a single distribution pad not shown extending across the span of the tubes . The liquid desiccant is delivered to the single distribution pad via spray nozzles not shown or drip pans not shown . The use of spray nozzles or drip pans may require the use of baffles or partitions constructed around the distribution pad and the spray nozzles or drip pans to prevent the process air stream from picking up the sprayed droplets of liquid desiccant .

Referring back to the liquid desiccant flows around the outer surface of the top row of tubes and is cooled by contact with the tubes . Drawn downward by gravity the liquid desiccant flows to the top of the adjacent fins . The liquid desiccant spreads across the outer surface of the fins as a continuous flow without undesirably forming drips or droplets. A process air stream that is to be cooled and dried is passed through the spaces between the fins and around the tubes . The process air stream may be introduced horizontally vertically or at an angle to the evaporator . The process air stream comes into contact with the liquid desiccant . The liquid desiccant absorbs the heat and water vapor from the process air stream . The process air stream leaving the evaporator possesses a lower water content while maintaining at least the same or lower temperature than entering the evaporator .

Since the water absorbing process is exothermic the temperature of the liquid desiccant increases as it flows down the outer surface of the fin in contact with the process air stream . As a result of the temperature increase the residence time of the liquid desiccant on the fins must be controlled because the ability of the liquid desiccant to absorb water vapor is diminished and if the temperature exceeds a certain threshold level the liquid desiccant stops absorbing water vapor. Therefore the distance between the top edge and the bottom edge of the fins is selected to prevent the liquid desiccant from exceeding the temperature threshold prior to coming into contact with and being cooled by the next row of tubes .

At this point the liquid desiccant reaches the next row of tubes and is cooled by the heat exchange fluid flowing through the tubes . The temperature of the liquid desiccant is lowered which enhances the ability of the liquid desiccant to absorb more water vapor. This process of the liquid desiccant being cooled while on the tubes followed by the absorption of heat and water vapor while on the fins is repeated several times as the liquid desiccant flows from the top of the evaporator to the bottom. When the liquid desiccant reaches the bottom the water containing liquid desiccant is collected in a reservoir not shown for delivery back to the regenerator not shown for re charge and re use.

As shown in the top and bottom edges and of the fins include contoured edge portions that match the curvature of the tubes . This enables the fins to be securely seated therebetween while facilitating the flow of the liquid desiccant between the tube and the corresponding edge or of the fin .

Applicants have observed that a fillet of liquid desiccant forms where the edge or of the fin is positioned in proximity to the tube . The fillet of relatively thick liquid desiccant forms a region where the liquid desiccant flows freely but due to the thickness poor thermal contact is made with the tube and therefore only small amounts of heat are exchanged between the liquid desiccant and the tube . As a result the liquid desiccant passing through the fillet is not effectively cooled upon contact with the tube . Thus if the contoured edge portions extend too far around the circumference of the tube and no provision is made to prevent a fillet from forming the contoured edge portions form a path for the liquid desiccant to flow around the tube without being cooled.

The fins further include drip preventing means to prevent the liquid desiccant from dropping off of the substrate. As shown in the fins include notches located at the bottom edges of the fins between adjacent tubes . The notches may include inclined edge portions that greatly reduce the tendency of the liquid desiccant to drip off the bottom edge and function to channel the downward flowing liquid desiccant towards the adjacent tube . In this manner the liquid desiccant is prevented from accumulating along the edge of the fin away from the tube and dripping between the tubes .

The fins are composed of a suitable material that facilitates wetting of the liquid desiccant on substantially the entire surface or selected portions thereof and which provides a suitable wicking surface for allowing the liquid desiccant to flow uniformly over the fin . Such suitable materials are in the form of screens meshes non woven sheets and the like typically made from fibers of plastics metal carbon glass ceramic and cellulose. The fins may be made in the form of thin films in which grit or fibers are adhered thereto which may be selected from plastic metal carbon glass ceramic minerals cellulose and the like. In one embodiment the fins comprise a thin film of plastic material of less than 15 mils and a layer of wicking material on each side of the thin film.

In the present embodiment the evaporator is constructed to facilitate the removal of the fins for simple replacement while keeping the evaporator at least substantially intact. The fins can be easily slipped out from between the tubes and thereafter replaced.

Referring to an evaporator is shown for a second embodiment of the present invention. The evaporator is similar to the evaporator except for the liquid desiccant distribution system. The evaporator comprises a single distribution pad in direct contact with the top edge of the corresponding fins and a plurality of distribution tubes in fluid communication with the distribution manifold . The distribution tubes each include a series of spray nozzles disposed along the length thereof. The spray nozzles are adapted to spray streams of the liquid desiccant onto the top surface of the single distribution pad . The sprayed liquid desiccant permeates throughout the pad eventually flowing onto the surface of the fins . Since the fins are closely spaced to one another the formation of droplets under the pad is eliminated.

When using the single distribution pad and spray system for supplying the liquid desiccant a partition is mounted on top of the distribution pad and enclosing the distribution tubes and spray nozzles . The partition isolates and prevents the liquid desiccant sprayed from the nozzles from becoming entrained in the process air stream .

Referring to an evaporator absent a liquid desiccant distribution assembly is shown for a third embodiment of the present invention. The evaporator is similar to the evaporator except for the fin configuration. The evaporator includes the heat exchange tubes through which the heat exchange fluid flows and a plurality of fins extending contiguous from the upper rows to the lower rows of tubes . The fins are arranged in a spaced apart configuration. Each fin includes a plurality of holes for receiving the tubes . The surface of the fins is treated as described above to yield a wettable wicking region disposed between each row of tubes . The wicking region is created to induce the liquid desiccant to flow towards one of the tubes in the next row of tubes during the downward flow. The surface portion of the fins on either side of a tube remains untreated i.e. non wettable non wicking to deter any fluid from flowing on the fin around the tube . In this manner the flow of the liquid desiccant is directed onto the surface of the tube during the course of the downward flow.

Referring to an evaporator absent a liquid desiccant distribution assembly is shown for a fourth embodiment of the present invention. The evaporator is similar to the evaporator except for the heat exchange tube configuration. The evaporator comprises a plurality of heat exchange tubes in rows of five and spaced closely to one another in the same row and a plurality of fins spaced uniformly apart from one another. The entire surface of the fin is treated in the manner described above to yield a wettable wicking region . Each tube includes a wicking pad disposed on the top surface thereof in contact with the wicking region of the fin . The liquid desiccant flows downward along the wicking region and is drawn by the wicking pads onto the tubes . Once drawn on top of the tubes the liquid desiccant flows around the tube as a thin film to form a suitable thermal contact. This process is repeated at each row of tubes .

It is essential that the space between the fins be uniform along the length thereof. Non uniformity of the space can induce bridging of the liquid desiccant between the adjacent fins particularly at points when the space is narrow. Bridging of the liquid desiccant creates a low resistance path for the liquid desiccant to flow from one tube to the next lower one. This creates a non uniform flow that adversely reduces the surface area of the fin on which heat and mass exchange can occur. Bridging further creates a non stable flow feature where the bridges tend to break and reform. When a bridge breaks droplets of liquid desiccant can form and be undesirably entrained into the process air stream.

Referring to there is shown four methods of maintaining a uniform space between adjacent fins . As shown in the fins comprise small dimples stamped or thermoformed onto the surface thereof. When the fins are stacked each dimple comes into contact with either another dimple on an adjacent fin or the surface of the adjacent fin . Since the dimples can be formed to have consistent heights the dimples provide a reliable means for maintaining uniform spaces between the fins .

As shown in a plurality of spacers are applied to the surface of the fins through a suitable fastening means including but not limited to adhesives welding and bonding. The spacers maintain a uniform space between adjacent fins . In the alternative the spacers can be formed from a bead of adhesive that spans the space between adjacent fins . The adhesive is initially flowable after application. The adhesive eventually cures into a hard spacer.

As shown in a series of spacer rods are inserted through a stack of fins to maintain the spaced apart arrangement. The fins are either bonded to the rods at the desired positions or the fins are held in place by friction between the fins and the rods . A separating means is preferable to maintain the fins in a spaced apart arrangement during insertion of the spacer rods .

As shown in a pair of fins include corrugations formed thereon. The fins are placed adjacent to one another and are maintained in a spaced apart arrangement by the corrugations . As previously indicated the fins as shown in may be planar bowed corrugated or the like.

Referring to a portion of the evaporator of is shown. The evaporator includes a plurality of spacers A B. Typically the liquid desiccant tends to thicken under a spacer. This can cause bridging between adjacent fins . The spacers A are positioned on the fin in close proximity to a corresponding tube where bridging does not cause problems. The spacers B are positioned in an area where the liquid desiccant flow will be low and so there is less tendency for the liquid desiccant to bridge between adjacent fins .

It is essential that the surface of the heat exchange tube is readily wettable by the liquid desiccant. If the tube is not readily wettable there is a tendency for discrete rivulets to form on the surface of the tube. The presence of rivulets indicates that only a portion of the surface of the tube is exchanging heat with the liquid desiccant .

However even if the entire surface of the tube is wetted with the liquid desiccant it has been observed that the film thickness of the liquid desiccant that flows around the tube may result in a non uniform film thickness. This non uniformity can also reduce the heat exchange between the liquid desiccant and the tube. It may also be desirable for the surface of the tube to be wicking to insure that the flow of the liquid desiccant on the surface of the tube has a relatively uniform thickness. However the use of a wick on the surface of the tube must be used with discretion since the wick itself can interfere with the flow of heat between the liquid desiccant and the tube if it is too thick.

Wicks that can be used on the tubes of the evaporator are similar to those that have been described for the fins. Applicants have successfully used fibers of glass carbon acrylic polyester and nylon as wicking material that can be adhered to the surface of the tube. In all instances the thickness of the wicking material in the form of a fiber layer ranges from about 10 mils to 25 mils.

Referring to a portion of a heat exchange tube is shown for one embodiment of the present invention. It is important to provide a sufficient thermal contact between the liquid desiccant and the heat exchange tube . The tube includes a plurality of circumferential grooves extending along the length thereof. The grooves may also form a helix. The grooves substantially increase the area for heat transfer between the tube and the liquid desiccant . The grooves also reduce the formation of discrete rivulets from the liquid desiccant that would otherwise form. The formation of rivulets adversely reduces the surface area on which heat is exchanged with the liquid desiccant.

In one embodiment that was tested the grooves have a pitch of 40 per inch and a peak to trough height of 0.020 inch. Applicants have observed a 300 increase in the heat transfer coefficient between the tube and the liquid desiccant when the tubes have grooves as described above.

Referring to there is shown a portion of an evaporator with multiple heat exchange tubes having oblong cross sections shown in combination with a plurality of spacers . The spacers are each disposed on the surface of the fins proximate the heat exchange tubes . The tubes exhibit a flattened cross section which increases the surface area on which the liquid desiccant exchanges heat. Furthermore the substantially vertically oriented surface of the tube increases the velocity of the flow of the liquid desiccant thus reducing the thickness of the liquid desiccant flowing over the tube surface and enhancing the transfer of heat. Alternatively the tubes may be modified with an oval cross section to yield similar enhanced heat transfer efficiency.

Referring to an evaporator is shown without a liquid desiccant distribution system for an alternate embodiment of the present invention. The evaporator includes a plurality of fins each disposed between adjacent heat exchange tubes . The fins each extend from one tube e.g. A to the lower adjacent tube e.g. B and they lie in a plane defined by the axes of the tubes. The liquid desiccant that flows down the surface of a fin must flow around and exchange heat with a tube before it can continue flowing down on the next lower fin . This arrangement ensures that the entire surface of the tube exchanges heat with the liquid desiccant flowing down the fin . This embodiment may benefit from the use of tubes with a flattened or elongated cross section and a tube surface that is grooved or lined with a wicking material.

Referring to an evaporator is shown for another embodiment of the present invention. The evaporator includes a plurality of vertical heat exchange plates arranged in a spaced apart configuration and a plurality of corrugated fins each disposed between corresponding adjacent plates . The evaporator further includes a distribution manifold for delivering a liquid desiccant from a regenerator not shown and a plurality of distribution tubes for distributing the liquid desiccant from the distribution manifold to a plurality of distribution pads each positioned between adjacent plates . The liquid desiccant disperses throughout the pad and uniformly flows down the surface of the plates . The liquid desiccant is eventually collected in a reservoir not shown and returned to the regenerator not shown for reprocessing.

The exterior portion of the plates and the corrugated fins are treated to yield a wettable wicking surface in the manner described above. The wicking surface of the plates facilitates a uniform flow of liquid desiccant . The corrugated fins are disposed in close proximity or in contact with the corresponding adjacent plates at discrete contact locations . The contact locations allows the liquid desiccant flowing down the plate to continue the flow on the surface of the plate or move onto the surface of the corrugated fin .

The corrugated fins are preferably composed of a wettable wicking material which provide a wicking surface on the fin so that the liquid desiccant is able to flow uniformly. Suitable forms of the fins include screens meshes or non woven sheets made from plastic metal carbon glass ceramic or cellulose fibers and thin films that have a grit or fiber composed materials such as plastic metal carbon glass ceramic mineral or cellulose adhering to the surface of the fin .

The heat exchange plate includes a heat exchange fluid flowing internally to facilitate heat transfer with the liquid desiccant . It may be desirable for the heat exchange fluid flowing internally within the plate to make multiple passes therein as will be described hereinafter. Details of such heat exchange plates are further disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 079 481 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference. A process air stream is passed through the space between the fins and the plates where the stream is cooled and dried by contact with the liquid desiccant flowing down the fins and the plates .

Referring to a cross section of a heat exchange plate is shown. The plate comprises a pair of plate walls maintained uniformly spaced apart by a plurality of spaced apart webs . The webs define a plurality of fluid carrying channels for conveying the heat exchange fluid therethrough.

Referring to the heat exchange plate includes a triangular insert comprising a plurality of channels extending transversely therethrough. The channels of the insert are oriented in a manner that when the insert is coupled to the plate the channels fluidly connect channels of one side of the plate to channels of the other side of the plate to yield a two pass fluid circuit. The heat exchange fluid enters the plate through channels in one side and enters the channels of the insert and undergoes a 180 degree turn into the channels in the other side of the plate . The turning of the heat exchange fluid is executed within the plane of the plate without using an external manifold or additional fittings attached to the plate .

Referring to a heat exchange plate is shown for another embodiment of the present invention. The heat exchange plate is similar to the heat exchange plate . The heat exchange plate comprises a plurality of fluid conveying channels extending longitudinally therein and a plurality of bores extending perpendicularly to and intersecting the channels at one end of the plate . The intersecting channels and bores form an fluid turning area that permits fluid passing through the channels to turn 180 degrees thus yielding a two pass or multiple pass fluid circuit. A side cover member is attached to the plate to maintain the bores fluidly sealed from the outside. An end cover member is attached to the plate to maintain the channels fluidly seal from the outside.

Referring to a heat exchange plate is shown for another embodiment of the present invention. The heat exchange plate is similar to the heat exchange plate except for the absence of the side cover member. The heat exchange plate comprises a plurality of channels extending longitudinally therein and in communication with a plurality of bores extending within the plate and intersecting the channels at an angle. The intersecting channels and bores form an fluid turning area that permits fluid passing through the channels to turn 180 degrees thus yielding a two pass or multiple pass fluid circuit. The bores do not intersect the sidewall of the heat exchange plate . An end cover member is attached to the plate to maintain the channels and bores fluidly seal from the outside. Alternatively the open end of the plate may be sealed by suitable means including welding or plugging with an adhesive.

Referring to a distribution insert is shown for one embodiment of the present invention. The distribution insert can be utilized to replace the distribution pads of to deliver the liquid desiccant to the top end of the plate of the evaporator . Each distribution insert is adapted to receive and accommodate the top end portions of adjacently positioned heat exchange plates .

Liquid desiccant is delivered to the distribution insert from the distribution manifold and the distribution tube to a small diameter inlet . The structural elements of one side of the distribution insert are the same on the other side. The small diameter inlet is in fluid communication with a throughhole extending perpendicularly with the face portions of the distribution insert . The distribution insert further includes a delivery groove disposed on each side thereof to deliver the liquid desiccant from the throughhole to the top portions of the adjacent pair of the heat exchange plates that are positioned on each side thereof.

In order in ensure that substantially equal amount of liquid desiccant is delivered to each plate the resistance to the flow in the distribution manifold is small compared to the resistance in the flow path in the distribution insert to the surface of each plate . The flow resistance may be increased through reducing the width and depth of the grooves . However the width and depth should be sufficiently large to avoid blockages by either scale or solid particles that may be deposited on the inner surfaces of the flow path. Alternatively the flow length of the grooves may be lengthened to increase flow resistance while preventing flow blockages.

Applicants have observed that streams of liquid desiccant that flow from the distribution insert onto the opposed sides of the plates can combine to bridge the gap across adjacent plates . This can cause the process air stream to interact with the bridge of liquid desiccant and strip away droplets.

To minimize such occurrences the distribution insert further includes a thinner skirt extending along the lower edge thereof. The skirt effectively prevents bridging between the liquid desiccant flows on the opposed surfaces of the plates .

The distribution insert further includes a raised sealing barrier and a secondary drain groove that directs liquid desiccant onto the surface of the plates that may leak from the sides of the deliver groove .

In this example a mass and heat exchanger that is designed according to the principles taught herein is installed in a vapor compression air conditioner to replace a conventional evaporator. The replaced conventional evaporator is an industry standard finned tube heat exchanger with copper tubes and aluminum fins. The conventional evaporator possesses the following characteristics 

With R 22 refrigerant evaporating at a saturation temperature of 49 F. within the tubes of this heat exchanger and 1000 CFM of air entering at 80 F. dry bulb temperature and 67 F. wet bulb temperature flowing over the outside of the fins and tubes the conventional heat exchanger absorbs 30 100 Btu per hour from the air and remove 8.6 lbs per hour of water.

The conventional evaporator is replaced with a mass and heat exchanger in the form of an evaporator that is designed according to the principles taught herein. A 37 by weight solution of lithium chloride a strong liquid desiccant is applied as a flow on the outside of the mass and heat exchanger. To facilitate a useful comparison of the conventional evaporator and the present invention the mass and heat exchanger is designed to match the above listed characteristics of the conventional evaporator particularly with regard to 1 total number of tubes approximately 2 tube outer diameter 3 volume of air processed 4 face velocity for incoming air and 5 the temperature of the evaporating refrigerant within the tubes.

The tubes oriented horizontally are arranged in a square array of five per row and eighteen per column. The process air stream is generated to flow in the direction of the rows and the liquid desiccant is delivered to flow in the direction of the columns. The five tubes in each row are aligned with a inch gap between adjacent tubes. The 18 tubes in each column are also aligned with a one inch gap between them. The tubes include helical saw tooth grooves on the outer surface. There are 40 grooves per inch and each groove has a 20 mil trough to peak dimension.

The tubes are fabricated from either copper or a 90 10 copper nickel alloy. If copper tubes are used a corrosion inhibitor such as LIMIT 301 which is manufactured by FMC Lithium of Gastonia N.C. is added to the lithium chloride solution. FMC reports that the corrosion rate of copper in lithium chloride with LIMIT 301 at 100 F. is 2.0 mils per year. This corrosion rate is significantly lower at the 50 F. operating temperature of this example. 

Thin wicking fins are inserted in the one inch gap between tube rows and perpendicular to the tubes. The fins are made from a PVC film with a thickness of 10 mils. Each fin is prepared with acrylic fibers adhesively applied on both sides thereof. The fibers are 20 mils long and 3 denier. The denier is the standard measure of fiber diameter. The fins are 3 inches by 1 inch and stacked to yield seven fins per inch.

A total of 630 ml per minute of desiccant is pumped to open cell melamine foam pads that sit on top of the tubes in the uppermost row. The liquid desiccant is first filtered before delivery to the pads. From the pads the desiccant flows by gravity onto all 18 rows of tubes and fins flowing off of the lowermost row of fins into a collection sump. In traveling from the foam pad to the collection sump the desiccant does not traverse any air gaps that may cause it to breakup into droplets.

The performance of the liquid desiccant mass and heat exchanger is modeled by separately calculating the heat transfer between the tubes and the desiccant films that flow around the tubes and the heat and mass transfer between the process air stream and the liquid desiccant films that flow on the fins. The heat transfer between the tubes and the desiccant films is calculated assuming that U the heat transfer coefficient is 500 Btu h ft2 F. Values of U between 520 and 680 Btu h ft2 F have been measured in bench top experiments. Since a higher value of U will lead to a more compact and efficient mass and heat exchanger the assumption that U is 500 Btu h ft2 F is conservative. Knowing the temperature of the liquid desiccant that flows onto the tube the surface area available for heat transfer the heat transfer coefficient U the temperature within the tubes i.e. the temperature of the evaporating refrigerant the flow rate of desiccant and the heat capacity of the desiccant one can calculate from the conservation of energy the temperature of the desiccant as it flows off of the tube onto the fins.

The fins form parallel wall channels for the flow of the process air stream. For the design studied here the velocity of the air in these channels is 525 fpm. The Reynolds number for this air flow is about 900 which means that the air flow will be laminar. Heat and mass transfer coefficients for laminar flows between parallel walls are well known as functions of Reynolds number and Prandtl number which will be 0.7 for air . Using these heat and mass transfer coefficients and the properties for the liquid desiccant the exchange of heat and mass between the air and the desiccant films is calculated. With these exchanges known the temperature and humidity of the air that leaves the channels between the fins are calculated and the temperature and concentration of the liquid desiccant leaving the fins and flowing onto the next row of tubes are calculated.

The completed performance calculation shows that for the desiccant flow rate and the fin height that has been selected the temperature of the desiccant increases 10 F. while it is absorbing water vapor on the fin. This change in temperature produces an acceptable 10 decrease in the driving potential for water absorption. Also after passing over all the fins and tubes the desiccant s concentration decreases to 34.7 from its initial value of 37.0 . This 2.3 point change in concentration produces an acceptable 4.0 decrease in the driving potential for water absorption.

The complete performance calculation shows that the liquid desiccant mass and heat exchanger absorbed 31 100 Btu per hour of heat and 17.4 lbs per hour of water from the air. This heat absorption is almost 4 higher than the conventional evaporator and the water removal is more than 2 times higher. The increased water removal is very important in HVAC applications where humidity control is critical and provides a strong incentive for air conditioners to replace their conventional evaporator with a liquid desiccant mass and heat exchanger of the present invention.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying drawings and claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

