---

title: Navigation device and method for conveying information relationships
abstract: A method and device are disclosed for conveying information relationships. In one embodiment, the method includes prompting, in a navigation device, at least one of input and selection of a travel destination and a desired arrival time at the travel destination; calculating an arrival time during travel to the travel destination; and outputting via the navigation device, during travel to the travel destination, an indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time. In another embodiment, the method includes inputting a travel destination on a navigation device; determining a travel route to the input travel destination; calculating a speed in a navigation device during travel to the travel destination along the determined route; and outputting, via the navigation device, an indication of a relationship between a permitted speed and the calculated speed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554471&OS=08554471&RS=08554471
owner: TomTom International B.V.
number: 08554471
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20070301
---
The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present applications. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR STORING AND UTILIZING A LAST DOCKED LOCATION application Ser. No. 11 712 573 filed on even date herewith A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR UTILIZING A SELECTABLE LOCATION MARKER FOR RELATIONAL DISPLAY OF POINT OF INTEREST ENTRIES application Ser. No. 11 712 572 filed on even date herewith A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR MAP SWITCHING application Ser. No.11 712 578 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF UPDATING INFORMATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No.11 712 571 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE SERVER AND METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING THEREBETWEEN application Ser. No. 11 712 603 filed on even date herewith A

METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PROVIDING PREFERENCES DURING ROUTE TRAVEL CALCULATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 712 562 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF ACTIVATING INFORMATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No.11 712 565 filed on even date herewith AUTOMATIC DISCOVERY OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SETTINGS application Ser. No.11 713 090 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF IMPLEMENTING AUDIO FEATURES IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 12 736 557 filed on even date herewith METHODS OF CUSTOMIZING NAVIGATION SYSTEMS application Ser No. 11 713 089 filed on even date herewith and A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SEQUENTIAL MAP DISPLAY application Ser. No.11 712 56 filed on even date herewith.

The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 on each of Great Britain Patent Application numbers 0604709.6 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604708.8 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604710.4 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604704.7 filed Mar. 8 2006 and 0604706.2 filed Mar. 8 2006 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Known navigation devices are able to provide a user with a travel route to a travel destination input from a user. A user of the navigation device can use the device to arrive at the travel destination via a number of different alternative routes some of which may take longer than others. As the user travels the route may even change if the user makes a wrong turn for example .

However which route will be the fastest route is many times unpredictable as accidents can occur road conditions can change traffic patterns can vary roads can be out or under construction etc. Thus the user of the navigation device must separately manage the use of the navigation device to allow him to plan a route to a desired travel destination and a time at which the user would like to arrive at the travel destination.

In at least one embodiment the present application is directed to a method of providing an indication of leeway to a user either in terms of arrival time or speed. With such an indication of leeway a user of a navigation device can be notified of how he she is doing in relation to an expected arrival time at a travel destination.

In at least one embodiment a method includes prompting in a navigation device at least one of input and selection of a travel destination and a desired arrival time at the travel destination calculating an arrival time during travel to the travel destination and outputting via the navigation device during travel to the travel destination an indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time.

In at least one other embodiment the present application is directed to a navigation device. The navigation device of at least one embodiment includes an integrated input and display device to prompt at least one of input and selection of a travel destination and a desired arrival time and a processor to calculate an arrival time during travel to the travel destination. The integrated input and display device is further used to output during travel to the travel destination an indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a method of providing a relationship between a permitted and calculated speed is provided. Such a method in at least one embodiment includes inputting a travel destination on a navigation device determining a travel route to the input travel destination calculating a speed in a navigation device during travel to the travel destination along the determined route and outputting via the navigation device an indication of a relationship between a permitted speed and the calculated speed.

In at least one other embodiment a navigation device is provided the navigation device including an integrated input and display device to prompt input of a travel destination on a navigation device and a processor to determine a travel route to the input travel destination. The integrated input and display device is further used to output during travel to the travel destination along the determined route an indication of a relationship between a permitted speed and the calculated speed.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR the GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in extremely precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites can relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by the same geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touchscreen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectible to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a data connection via Bluetooth technology for example between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle for example a car motorbike motorcycle boat etc. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use. The portable handheld navigation device might be used by pedestrians or bikers as well for example.

The navigation device in at least one embodiment may establish a mobile network connection with the server via a mobile device such as a mobile phone PDA and or any device with mobile phone technology establishing a digital connection such as a digital connection via known Bluetooth technology for example . Thereafter through its network service provider the mobile device can establish a network connection through the internet for example with a server . As such a mobile network connection is established between the navigation device which can be and often times is mobile as it travels alone and or in a vehicle and the server to provide a real time or at least very up to date gateway for information.

The establishing of the network connection between the mobile device via a service provider and another device such as the server using the internet for example can be done in a known manner. This can include use of TCP IP layered protocol for example. The mobile device can utilize any number of communication standards such as CDMA GSM WAN etc.

As such an internet connection may be utilized which is achieved via data connection via a mobile phone or mobile phone technology within the navigation device for example. For this connection an internet connection between the server and the navigation device is established. This can be done for example through a mobile phone or other mobile device and a GPRS General Packet Radio Service connection GPRS connection is a high speed data connection for mobile devices provided by telecom operators GPRS is a method to connect to the internet.

The navigation device can further complete a data connection with the mobile device and eventually with the internet and server via existing Bluetooth technology for example in a known manner wherein the data protocol can utilize any number of standards such as the GSRM the Data Protocol Standard for the GSM standard for example.

The navigation device may include its own mobile phone technology within the navigation device itself including an antenna for example wherein the internal antenna of the navigation device can further alternatively be used . The mobile phone technology within the navigation device can include internal components as specified above and or can include an insertable card complete with necessary mobile phone technology and or an antenna for example. As such mobile phone technology within the navigation device can similarly establish a network connection between the navigation device and the server via the internet for example in a manner similar to that of any mobile device .

For GRPS phone settings the Bluetooth enabled device may be used to correctly work with the ever changing spectrum of mobile phone models manufacturers etc. model manufacturer specific settings may be stored on the navigation device for example. The data stored for this information can be updated in a manner discussed in any of the embodiments previous and subsequent.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD Roms for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and Bluetooth connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

In an embodiment of the present application a method is disclosed for providing an indication of arrival leeway or lack thereof to a user of the navigation device . The method includes prompting in the navigation device at least one of input and selection of a travel destination and a desired arrival time at the travel destination calculating an arrival time during travel to the travel destination and outputting via the navigation device during travel to the travel destination an indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time. A further discussion of an example embodiment of the method is as follows.

A user utilizes the navigation device of of the present application. The user of the navigation device in connection with an embodiment of the present application is prompted not only to input a travel destination the input including any type of selection of a plurality of inputs inputting selecting an address etc. or desired end point of travel but a user is further prompted with input of a desired arrival time at the travel destination. For example as shown in after input of the travel destination of S Gravendeel for example the user may be prompted for a desired arrival time such as by the display screen displaying is there a particular time that you have to arrive at S Gravendeel for example.

If the answer is yes the user may then be prompted to enter a desired arrival time at the travel destination by display of an adjustable clock input such as the 09 00 as shown in of the present application. Alternatively any other type of prompt may be used wherein the user can enter the desired arrival time in any manner wherein the present application is not limited to any particular type of entry.

In at least one embodiment the user may be initially prompted with an estimated arrival time. This can be determined for example based upon a calculation done by processor for example wherein a distance between an input travel destination and a starting location either entered by the user or determined utilizing GPS location of the navigation device is divided by an average travel speed such as 50 kilometers per hour for example . Alternatively the estimated and calculated number can be rounded up to a whole number such as the number of hours number of minutes etc. Again the distance calculation may be done by the processor calculating the distance between the current coordinates of the device either input or through GPS retrieval and the coordinates of the input travel destination.

In this example embodiment if the user is prompted with a suggested or estimated arrival time the user can merely accept that time adjust the time by use of the virtual buttons shown in for example or in any other known manner or can merely hit the cancel or next button to allow entry of a new time. When completed the user can then select the done button for example.

Once such a desired arrival time at the travel destination is input via input and or selection of an estimated arrival time for example this desired arrival time can then be used in conjunction with a calculated arrival time calculated and updated during travel to the travel destination to produce a relationship or a leeway to the user or lack thereof for example between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time. Such a relationship can be output to the user as an indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time via display screen or via another output mechanism of the navigation device for example. An example embodiment includes a visual display on display screen of the navigation device for example.

As shown in an example indication of the relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time is seven minutes. This output indication may in at least one embodiment be a color display wherein the color conveys at least one of a positive negative and neutral relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time. For example the color display can include at least one of red yellow and green color with a red color conveying an expected relatively delayed arrival in relation to the desired arrival time for example the yellow color conveying an expected on time arrival in relation to the desired arrival time for example and the green color conveying an expected relatively early arrival in relation to the desired arrival time for example.

Calculations used to produce such a display as shown in and also in can be calculated by processor utilizing various set stored thresholds for example. In one example embodiment a green color can be used for display when the output indication exceeds a certain time such as five minutes for example thereby indicating that the calculated arrival time currently exceeds the desired arrival time by more than five minutes the yellow color can be used when the threshold is not exceeded but when a second lower threshold is exceeded for example if the calculated arrival time currently exceeds the desired arrival time by five minutes or less but not less than zero minutes and the red color can be used when the second lower threshold is not met for example when the calculated arrival time currently trails the desired arrival time namely when the difference is negative or less than zero minutes . Again the present application is not limited by the particular example thresholds colors and calculations described above.

Based on such a device method a user can be constantly updated as to the status of a desired on time arrival. If the color conveys a positive relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time such as by display of a green color for example the user can know that his pace is good or that he has time to stop for gas etc. If the output indication is one of a neutral relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time such as by display of a yellow color for example the user can either decide to speed up call ahead and indicate the possibility of being late or take some other measure to ensure or further improve his chances of an on time arrival at the travel destination. Alternatively if the output indication displays a negative relationship between desired arrival time and calculated arrival time the user can call someone at the travel destination and indicate that he is going to be late or take other measures in an effort to ensure an on time arrival at the travel destination for example.

As shown in the output indication of relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time can also include a numerical display. In the numerical display indicates seven minutes and may be displayed for example in a green color not shown . Such a numerical display of conveys a positive relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time. As shown in the display indicates negative four minutes. Such a numerical display conveys a negative relationship between desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time.

Either of the numerical displays can convey such a relationship by themselves and or can be combined with color display such as a red color display to again further convey the negative relationship between desired arrival time and calculated arrival time. Similarly the display of can further convey a positive arrival time by including a symbol along with a numerical display to convey a positive relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time and or can be combined with a color display to again convey the aforementioned positive relationship. Accordingly a negative for example red color and a negative for example the minus symbol and or numerical display can be combined and or the minus symbol and a numerical display can be combined and a positive for example green color and a positive for example the plus symbol and or numerical display can be combined and or the plus symbol and a numerical display can be combined.

In addition other indicators can be used such as a blinking display for example when between the two threshold values to convey an indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time being five minutes or less for example. This can be used by itself and or can be used in combination with a yellow color or another color to indicate a neutral relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time. Alternatively the blinking display can be used to signify a negative relationship between desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time. Other variations other than color and numerical indications can also be used and are also within the scope of the present application.

Further the output indication can include other outputs such as an audible output for example including a time value in minutes including a warning to convey a negative relationship etc. Such additional output indications can be combined with the display output indications described above.

As shown in in at least one embodiment of the application the navigation device further outputs map information with the indication between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time being output in conjunction with the map information. Thus the leeway or lack thereof between desired arrival time and calculated arrival time can be displayed on the display of the navigation device in addition with other information that may or may not typically be displayed.

As far as when the output indication is updated the output indication can be updated in any number of ways and at any number of times. For example an output indication update can occur upon a difference between desired arrival time and the calculated time exceeding a threshold can occur anytime a numerical change in value is made can be updated periodically can be updated anytime a color conveying at least one of a positive negative and neutral relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time changes etc.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a navigation device is used to convey leeway information or lack thereof. The navigation device includes for example an integrated input and display device integrating the input and display of for example to prompt at least one of input and selection of a travel destination and a desired arrival time and a processor to calculate an arrival time during travel to the travel destination. The integrated input and display device may further be used to output during travel to the travel destination an indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and the calculated arrival time.

The input device and display screen can be separated but preferably are integrated in a touch screen format for example. Also alternative or additional input devices can be utilized to input or select at least one of a travel destination and desired arrival time for example to select any one of a plurality of predisplayed travel destinations and or adjust or accept an estimated desired arrival time such as that shown in for example.

It should be noted that for any embodiments of the present application input and or selection of a travel destination and or a desired arrival time can be made via any type of input or selection including but not limited to touch screen input or selection keyboard input or selection audible input or selection etc. Further for each of the embodiments of the present application a navigation device may prompt at least one of input and selection of both a travel destination and desired arrival time at the travel destination noting that the travel destination may be displayed as a selectable list of destinations from which a selection can be made.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a status bar as shown in will typically display various types of information. In at least one embodiment of the present application if the user enables everything in the status bar shown in the leeway aspect of the present application can override a displayed field such as the current time field for example that was previously displayed. The leeway field may be added to the status bar if the user has specified via at least one of input and selection for example an arrival time for a current route. If the status bar already contains a current time field the leeway aspect of the present application can replace that field and thus when the user is traveling with leeway a current time may not be displayed. However the embodiments of the present application should not be limited of this example as the leeway field can be added and or the status bar can be expanded to include a display of both leeway and current time. Accordingly the embodiments of the present application encompass any such variations.

The aspect of requesting prompting of an arrival time can be something that is activated in advance in a preference options enable disable aspect. Thus a preference menu may be displayed to a user of the navigation device to switch a feature on or off regarding asking arrival time or not asking arrival time for example. Such a feature may be enabled by a default namely the feature of asking arrival times however if the user answers no a certain plurality of times in a row then the system can be set to ask if the user would prefer that he never be asked about arrival times again noting that the feature can be turned back on at a later time for example.

Thus using the enable disable preference the method of at least one embodiment can further include prompting for selection a preference to enable such a preference to prompt at least one of input and selection of a desired arrival time subsequent to at least one of input and selection of the travel destination wherein upon selection of the preference to enable the preference for example input of the desired arrival time is prompted subsequent to at least one of input and selection of the travel destination. Alternatively the method of at least one embodiment may include prompting for selection an option to at least one of enable and disable the automatic prompting of at least one of input and selection of the desired arrival time subsequent to the at least one of input and selection of the travel destination. Finally the method of at least one embodiment may include prompting which includes automatically prompting at least one of input and selection of the desired arrival time subsequent to the at least one of input and selection of the travel destination.

In an alternative embodiment of the present application a method includes inputting a travel destination on the navigation device determining a travel route to the input travel destination calculating a speed in a navigation device during travel to the travel destination along the determined route and outputting via the navigation device an indication of a relationship between the permitted speed and the calculated speed. Such an output indication can be varied in a manner similar to the output indication of a relationship between the desired arrival time and calculated arrival time leeway or lack thereof as previously discussed above including but not limited to outputting of a color display conveying positive negative and neutral relationships between the permitted speed and the calculated speed indicating positive negative and neutral relationships of the permitted speed and the calculated speed in other ways numerical positive negative indicators blinking etc. .

The memory of the navigation device can store maximum and or average road speeds and or traffic conditions for particular roads for example and the processor can calculate current speed. For example the processor can calculate current speed using two GPS positions a past position of the travel route and a current position along the travel route a distance between the two GPS positions along the particular travel route and a time difference between when the navigation device reached the first GPS position and the second GPS position along the travel route. Thus processor in conjunction with memory can constantly calculate a speed during travel to a travel destination along a determined route and constantly output such a speed via an output indication of the relationship between the current calculated speed and the permitted speed to a display screen . Thus utilizing the calculated speed and using known speeds stored in memory including known maximum and or average road speeds and or traffic conditions which are available for all roads and highways the processor can output an indication of relationship between the permitted speed and the calculated speed in any number of different ways similar to that of the leeway embodiment of the present application as previously described.

As shown in the display screen of the navigation device can display both calculated speed and permitted speed . The display can include the display of the two values in relation to one another and or can include a color display numerical display etc. in a manner previously described regarding the leeway embodiment of the present application.

Further in one example embodiment the font sized used for speed may automatically zoom out slowly when the text will not fit in the display area and the digits for displaying the speed may be somewhat smaller than other digits in the status area.

In at least one embodiment whenever a user is speeding and thus whenever there is a negative relationship between a permitted speed and the calculated speed is reached the speed may be displayed in red for example if the user is speeding above a particular threshold such as 5 kilometers per hour for example . Further the display may or may not turn red until the user is speeding at a certain speed above a particular threshold unless combined with such speeding above the threshold for a duration of a particular time for example. Thus both speed and time may be combined in the calculation for example. For example the speed may not be displayed in red until the user is speeding at least 5 kilometers per hour over the permitted speed for a duration of at least 5 seconds.

Alternatively the aforementioned relationship of a speed around 5 KPH above the speed limit may indicate a neutral relationship between a permitted speed and the calculated speed and thus may be displayed in yellow for example wherein exceeding the speed limit by 10 kilometers per hour and or for a particular duration for example may be displayed in red for example. These are merely examples as other permutations and combinations of aspects of the leeway embodiment as applied to the speed relationship embodiment will be appreciated by those skilled in the art and are therefore encompassed herein.

Additionally other indicators may also be displayed such an indication of a numerical amount at which the calculated speed is above the permitted speed instead of or in addition to display of the actual permitted speed and calculated speed themselves. This numerical value can be combined with a color display and or can include numerical indicators in a manner similar to that of the leeway aspect of an embodiment of the present application previously described. In addition other aspects such as flashing or otherwise highlighting the output indication if user exceeds another threshold such as speeding 10 kilometers per hour over the threshold can be utilized noting that these other aspects such as flashing may be used in combination with color and or numerical indicators for example. It should be noted that the speed thresholds of 5 and 10 kilometers per hour are arbitrary values as any of the thresholds can be set and stored in memory of the navigation device . In addition updates to the output indication can be varied in any manner such as periodically difference exceeding a threshold etc. as previously described with regard to the leeway aspect of an embodiment of the present application.

The methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to floppy disks trademark cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBAL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

