---

title: Pyridine [3,4-b] pyrazinones
abstract: 

wherein R, R, Rand Rare as defined in the specification. Corresponding pharmaceutical compositions, methods of treatment, synthetic methods, and intermediates are also disclosed.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07902195&OS=07902195&RS=07902195
owner: Pharmacia & Upjohn Company LLC
number: 07902195
owner_city: Kalamazoo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070420
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 793 971 filed Apr. 21 2006.

The present invention comprises a class of pyridine 3 4 b pyrazinone compounds having the structure of Formula I and pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of Formula I. The present invention also comprises methods of treating a subject by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to the subject. In general these compounds inhibit in whole or in part the enzyme cyclic guanylate monophosphate specific phosphodiesterase type 5 PDE 5 .

The prevalence of hypertension in developed countries is about 20 of the adult population rising to about 60 70 of those aged 60 or more. Hypertension is associated with an increased risk of stroke myocardial infarction atrial fibrillation heart failure peripheral vascular disease and renal impairment. Despite the large number of anti hypertensive drugs available in various pharmacological categories additional agents useful for the treatment of hypertension are still needed.

Vascular endothelial cells secrete nitric oxide NO . This acts on vascular smooth muscle cells and leads to the activation of guanylate cyclase and the accumulation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . The accumulation of cGMP causes the muscles to relax and the blood vessels to dilate leading to a reduction in blood pressure. The cGMP is inactivated by hydrolysis to guanosine 5 monophosphate GMP by a cGMP specific phosphodiesterase. One important cGMP phosphodiesterase has been identified as phosphodiesterase type 5 PDE5 . Inhibitors of PDE5 decrease the rate of hydrolysis of cGMP and so potentiate the actions of nitric oxide.

Improved drug therapies for the treatment of subjects suffering from or susceptible to a cardiovascular condition are desirable. In particular there still is a need for a new class of PDE 5 inhibitors for treating cGMP mediated conditions and corresponding drug therapies.

In another embodiment the invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound having the structure of Formula I.

In another embodiment the invention comprises methods of treating a condition in a subject by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having the Formula I to the subject. The conditions that can be treated in accordance with the present invention include cardiovascular conditions metabolic conditions central nervous system conditions pulmonary conditions sexual dysfunction and renal dysfunction.

In another embodiment the invention comprises a method for inhibiting PDE 5 and particularly methods for treating a condition typically a pathological condition mediated by PDE 5 by administering a compound having a structure of Formula I to the subject.

In another embodiment the invention comprises methods of making compounds having the structure of Formula I.

In another embodiment the invention comprises intermediates useful in the synthesis of compounds having the structure of Formula I.

This detailed description of embodiments is intended only to acquaint others skilled in the art with Applicants inventions its principles and its practical application so that others skilled in the art may adapt and apply the inventions in their numerous forms as they may be best suited to the requirements of a particular use. These inventions therefore are not limited to the embodiments described in this specification and may be variously modified.

The abbreviation HRMS refers to High Resolution Mass Spectroscopy electrospray ionisation positive scan .

The term alkyl alone or in combination with other term s refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substitutent i.e. a substitutent containing only carbon and hydrogen typically containing from about one to about twenty carbon atoms or in another embodiment from about one to about twelve carbon atoms in another embodiment from about one to about ten carbon atoms in another embodiment from about one to about six carbon atoms and in another embodiment from about one to about four carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl including n propyl and isopropyl butyl including n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl pentyl iso amyl hexyl and the like.

The term alkenyl alone or in combination with other term s refers to a linear or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more double bonds and from about two to about twenty carbon atoms in another embodiment from about two to about twelve carbon atoms in another embodiment from about two to about six carbon atoms and in another embodiment from about two to about four carbon atoms. Examples of alkenyl radicals include ethenyl allyl propenyl butenyl and 3 methylbutenyl.

The terms alkenyl and lower alkenyl embrace radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively Z and E orientations.

The term alkynyl alone or in combination with other term s refers to linear or branched chain heterocarbyl substituents containing one or more triple bonds and from about two to about twenty carbon atoms in another embodiment from about two to about twelve carbon atoms in another embodiment from about two to about six carbon atoms and in another embodiment from about two to about four carbon atoms. Examples of alkynyl radicals include 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 1 butyne 2 butynyl and 1 pentynyl.

The term amino alone or in combination with another term s refers to NHwhen it is at a terminal position or to NH when it is used in combination with another term s and is not at a terminal position.

The term aryl alone or in combination with another term s refers to a carbocyclic aromatic system containing one two or three rings wherein such rings may be attached together in a pendent manner or may be fused. Examples of aryl moieties include phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl indanyl and biphenyl.

The term carboxy alone or in combination with another term s refers to a radical of the formula C O OH.

The term cycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s refers to saturated carbocyclic radicals having three to about twelve carbon atoms. In another embodiment cycloalkyl radicals are lower cycloalkyl radicals having three to about eight carbon atoms. Examples of such radicals include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

The term cycloalkylalkyl alone or in combination with another term s refers to alkyl substituted with cycloalkyl. Examples of such substituents include cyclopropylmethyl cyclobutylmethyl cyclopentylmethyl and cyclohexylmethyl.

The term cycloalkenyl alone or in combination with another term s refers to a partially unsaturated carbocyclyl substituent. Examples of such substituents include cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl.

The term halogen or halo alone or in combination with another term s refers to means a fluorine radical which may be depicted as F chlorine radical which may be depicted as Cl bromine radical which may be depicted as Br or iodine radical which may be depicted as I . In another embodiment the halogen is a fluorine or chlorine radical. In another embodiment the halogen is a fluorine radical.

When used in combination with another term s the prefix halo indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example haloalkyl refers to an alkyl substituent wherein at least one hydrogen radical is replaced with a halogen radical. Where there are more than one hydrogens replaced with halogens the halogens may be the same or different. Examples of haloalkyls include chloromethyl dichloromethyl difluorochloromethyl dichlorofluoromethyl trichloromethyl 1 bromoethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl difluoroethyl pentafluoroethyl difluoropropyl dichloropropyl and heptafluoropropyl. Illustrating further haloalkoxy means an alkoxy substituent wherein at least one hydrogen radical is replaced by a halogen radical. Examples of haloalkoxy substituents include chloromethoxy 1 bromoethoxy fluoromethoxy difluoromethoxy trifluoromethoxy also known as perfluoromethyloxy and 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy. If a substituent is substituted by more than one halogen radical those halogen radicals may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

A heterocyclyl may be a single ring which typically contains from 3 to 10 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 7 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocyclyls include furanyl dihydrofurnayl tetrahydrofurnayl thiophenyl also known as thiofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl isopyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl isoimidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl dithiolyl oxathiolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiodiazolyl oxathiazolyl oxadiazolyl including oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl also known as azoximyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl also known as furazanyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxatriazolyl including 1 2 3 4 oxatriazolyl or 1 2 3 5 oxatriazolyl dioxazolyl including 1 2 3 dioxazolyl 1 2 4 dioxazolyl 1 3 2 dioxazolyl or 1 3 4 dioxazolyl oxathiazolyl oxathiolyl oxathiolanyl pyranyl including 1 2 pyranyl or 1 4 pyranyl dihydropyranyl pyridinyl also known as azinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl also known as 1 2 diazinyl pyrimidinyl also known as 1 3 diazinyl or pyrimidyl or pyrazinyl also known as 1 4 diazinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including s triazinyl also known as 1 3 5 triazinyl as triazinyl also known 1 2 4 triazinyl and v triazinyl also known as 1 2 3 triazinyl oxazinyl including 1 2 3 oxazinyl 1 3 2 oxazinyl 1 3 6 oxazinyl also known as pentoxazolyl 1 2 6 oxazinyl or 1 4 oxazinyl isoxazinyl including o isoxazinyl or p isoxazinyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 1 4 2 oxadiazinyl or 1 3 5 2 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl azepinyl oxepinyl thiepinyl and diazepinyl. A heterocyclyl alternatively may comprise 2 or 3 rings fused together wherein at least one such ring contains a heteroatom as a ring atom e.g. nitrogen oxygen or sulfur . Examples of 2 fused ring heterocyclyls include indolizinyl pyrindinyl pyranopyrrolyl 4H quinolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl pyridopyridinyl including pyrido 3 4 b pyridinyl pyrido 3 2 b pyridinyl or pyrido 4 3 b pyridinyl and pteridinyl indolyl isoindolyl indoleninyl isoindazolyl benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl benzothiopyranyl benzoxazolyl indoxazinyl anthranilyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxanyl benzoxadiazolyl benzofuranyl isobenzofuranyl benzothienyl isobenzothienyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzimidazolyl benzotriazolyl benzoxazinyl benzisoxazinyl and tetrahydroisoquinolinyl. Other examples of fused ring heterocyclyls include benzo fused heterocyclyls such as indolyl isoindolyl also known as isobenzazolyl or pseudoisoindolyl indoleninyl also known as pseudoindolyl isoindazolyl also known as benzpyrazolyl benzazinyl including quinolinyl also known as 1 benzazinyl or isoquinolinyl also known as 2 benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl including cinnolinyl also known as 1 2 benzodiazinyl or quinazolinyl also known as 1 3 benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl including chromanyl or isochromanyl benzothiopyranyl also known as thiochromanyl benzoxazolyl indoxazinyl also known as benzisoxazolyl anthranilyl benzodioxoiyl benzodioxanyl benzoxadiazolyl benzofuranyl also known as coumaronyl isobenzofuranyl benzothienyl also known as benzothiophenyl thionaphthenyl or benzothiofuranyl isobenzothienyl also known as isobenzothiophenyl isothionaphthenyl or isobenzothiofuranyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzimidazolyl benzotriazolyl benzoxazinyl including 1 3 2 benzoxazinyl 1 4 2 benzoxazinyl 2 3 1 benzoxazinyl or 3 1 4 benzoxazinyl benzisoxazinyl including 1 2 benzisoxazinyl or 1 4 benzisoxazinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl carbazolyl xanthenyl and acridinyl.

The term heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s refers to a completely unsaturated i.e. aromatic heterocyclyl containing from 5 to 14 ring atoms. A heteroaryl may comprise a single ring or 2 or 3 fused rings. In one embodiment heteroaryl radicals are 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl containing one or two heteroatoms selected from sulphur nitrogen and oxygen selected from thienyl furanyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl pyridyl and pyrazinyl. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered ring substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl and pyridazinyl 5 membered ring substituents such as 1 3 5 1 2 4 or 1 2 3 triazinyl imidazyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl and thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl 6 5 membered fused ring substituents such as benzothiofuranyl isobenzothiofuranyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl and anthranilyl and 6 6 membered fused rings such as 1 2 1 4 2 3 and 2 1 benzopyronyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl quinazolinyl and 1 4 benzoxazinyl. Other heteroaryls include unsaturated 5 to 6 membered heteromonocyclyl groups containing 1 to 4 nitrogen atoms for example pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl pyrimidyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl triazolyl e.g. 4H 1 2 4 triazolyl 1H 1 2 3 triazolyl 2H 1 2 3 triazolyl unsaturated condensed heterocyclic groups containing 1 to 5 nitrogen atoms for example indolyl isoindolyl indolizinyl benzimidazolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl indazolyl benzotriazolyl tetrazolopyridazinyl e.g. tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazinyl unsaturated 3 to 6 membered heteromonocyclic groups containing an oxygen atom for example pyranyl 2 furyl 3 furyl etc. unsaturated 5 to 6 membered heteromonocyclic groups containing a sulfur atom for example 2 thienyl 3 thienyl etc. unsaturated 5 to 6 membered heteromonocyclic groups containing 1 to 2 oxygen atoms and 1 to 3 nitrogen atoms for example isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl e.g. 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl unsaturated condensed heterocyclic groups containing 1 to 2 oxygen atoms and 1 to 3 nitrogen atoms e.g. benzoxazolyl benzoxadiazolyl unsaturated 5 to 6 membered heteromonocyclic groups containing 1 to 2 sulfur atoms and 1 to 3 nitrogen atoms for example thiazolyl thiadiazolyl e.g. 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl 1 2 5 thiadiazolyl unsaturated condensed heterocyclic groups containing 1 to 2 sulfur atoms and 1 to 3 nitrogen atoms e.g. benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl and the like. The term also embraces radicals where heterocyclic radicals are fused with aryl radicals. Examples of such fused bicyclic radicals include benzofuran benzothiophene and the like.

The term heterocyclylalkyl alone or in combination with another term s refers to alkyl substituted with a heterocyclyl.

The term sulfonyl alone or in combination with another term s refers to S O which also may be depicted as 

Thus for example alkyl sulfonyl alkyl refers to alkyl S O alkyl. Examples of typically preferred alkylsulfonyl substituents include methylsulfonyl ethylsulfonyl and propylsulfonyl.

The term sulfoxyl alone or in combination with another term s refers to S O which also may be depicted as 

The term thio or thia alone or in combination with another term s refers to a thiaether substituent i.e. an ether substituent wherein a divalent sulfur atom is in the place of the ether oxygen atom. Such a substituent may be depicted as S . This for example alkyl thio alkyl means alkyl S alkyl.

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a carbon of a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more of a list of substituents one or more of the hydrogens on the carbon to the extent there are any may separately and or together be replaced with an independently selected optional substituent. This specification uses the terms substituent and radical interchangeably.

The term PDE5 mediated condition refers to any condition mediated by PDE5. The term composition refers to an article of manufacture which results from the mixing or combining of more than one element or ingredient.

The term hypertensive subject refers to a subject having hypertension suffering from the effects of hypertension or susceptible to a hypertensive condition if not treated to prevent or control such hypertension.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a carrier that is compatible with the other ingredients of the composition and is not deleterious to the subject. Such carriers may be pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting a chemical agent. The preferred composition depends on the method of administration.

The terms prevent prevention or preventing refer to either preventing the onset of a preclinically evident condition altogether or preventing the onset of a preclinical evident stage of a condition in a subject. Prevention includes but is not limited to prophylactic treatment of a subject at risk of developing a condition.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue system or animal that is being sought by a researcher or clinician.

The term treatment and corresponding terms treat and treating includes palliative restorative and preventative treatment of a subject. The term palliative treatment refers to treatment that eases or reduces the effect or intensity of a condition in a subject without curing the condition. The term preventative treatment and the corresponding term prophylactic treatment refers to treatment that prevents the occurrence of a condition in a subject. The term restorative treatment refers to treatment that halts the progression of reduces the pathologic manifestations of or entirely eliminates a condition in a subject.

The present invention comprises in part a novel class of pyridine 3 4 b pyrazinone compounds. These compounds are useful as inhibitors of PDE5.

As used herein compounds of the present invention include tautomers of the compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds and tautomers.

Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl and 3 to 10 membered ring heterocycyl wherein said Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl OR C O R OC O R C O OR NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O R SR S O R and S O R wherein said alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl and cycloalkyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR 

R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy alkoxy carboxy and C O NH 

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a partially or fully saturated 3 to 14 membered ring heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen oxo alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyano OR C O R OC O R C O OR NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O R cycloalkyl aryl and heterocyclyl wherein a said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and cycloalkyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O R SR S O R S O R N R S O R and S O NRR C O NRC O R SR S O R S O R N R S O R and S O NRR and b said aryl and heterocyclyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyano oxo R C O R C O OR OC O R NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O R SR S O R S O R N R S O R and S O NRR 

R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl wherein a said Rand Ralkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy and b said Rand Ralkenyl and alkynyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy 

Ris alkyl wherein said Rsubstituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy alkenyl alkynyl OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR N R C O R C O NRR and C O NRC O R wherein said alkenyl and alkynyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo and alkoxy and

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl wherein a when said alkyl is methyl said methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substituents b when said alkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy and c said Rand Ralkenyl and alkynyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy.

Selected subclasses of compounds of interest that fall within the scope of the compounds of Formula I are shown in Table A wherein R R Rand Rare as defined for compounds of Formula I and as defined in the various embodiments described throughout this specification. Illustrative embodiments of these subclasses of compounds are described later in the specification.

wherein R R R R Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen Cto Calkyl OR and NRR wherein a when the alkyl is methyl the methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 halogen substituents b when the alkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms the alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo Cto Calkoxy and hydroxy and wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl and

R R R R Rand Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen alkyl and OR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen OR C O R C O OR NRR and C O NRR and R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment R R R R Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen Cto Calkyl OR and NRR wherein a when the alkyl is methyl the methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 halogen substituents b when the alkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms the alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo Cto Calkoxy and hydroxy and wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl.

In another embodiment R R R R Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen chloro fluoro methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl trifluoromethyl hydroxy methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy amino methylamino dimethylamino ethylamino and diethylamino.

In another embodiment R R R R Rand Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl and OR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of OR C O R C O OR and C O NRRand R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment R R R R Rand Rare selected from the group consisting of hydrogen OH CH CHCH CHCHCH CHCHCHCH CH CH CH C CH CH C CH CHOH CHCHOH CHCHCHOH CHCH CH OH CH CH CH CH OH CHC CH OH CHC O OH CHC O OC CH and C O NH.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl and 3 to 10 membered ring heterocycyl wherein Rmay be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and a 3 to 10 membered ring heteroaryl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and a 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and a 5 to 7 membered ring heteroaryl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and a 5 to 6 membered ring heteroaryl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris a 5 to 6 membered ring heteroaryl that comprises 1 2 or 3 ring heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of oxygen and nitrogen.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl furanyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrazinyl pyridinyl triazinyl imidazyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl benzofuran and benzodioxolyl. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl isoxazolyl pyrazolyl benzofuran and benzodioxolyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl and pyridinyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

In one embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo alkyl OR C O R OC O R C O OR NRRand C O NRR wherein the alkyl substitutent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl.

In another embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano oxo Cto Calkyl OR NRR C O OR and C O NRR wherein a when the alkyl is methyl the methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 halogen substituents b when the alkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms the alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen Cto Calkoxy and hydroxy and wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl.

In another embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen Cto Calkyl OR and NRR wherein a when the alkyl is methyl the methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 halogen substituents b when the alkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms the alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo Cto Calkoxy and hydroxy and wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl.

In one embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of chloro fluoro methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl trifluoromethyl hydroxy methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy amino methylamino dimethylamino ethylamino and diethylamino. In another embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of fluoro methyl trifluoromethyl methoxy trifluoromethoxy amino methylamino and dimethylamino.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris substituted with one or more fluoro substituents. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris substituted with one fluoro substituent. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris substituted with two fluoro substituents.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris substituted at the para position with a substituent selected from the group consisting of fluoro methyl trifluoromethyl methoxy trifluoromethoxy amino methylamino and dimethylamino. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris substituted at the para position with a substituent selected from the group consisting of fluoro methyl trifluoromethyl methoxy and trifluoromethoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris substituted at the para position with methoxy.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group in Table A consisting of Formula I 1 Formula I 5 Formula I 6 and Formula I 11 wherein R R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen oxo alkyl OR C O R OC O R C O OR NRRand C O NRR wherein the alkyl substitutent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group in Table A consisting of Formula I 1 and Formula I 6 wherein R R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen oxo alkyl OR C O R OC O R C O OR NRRand C O NRR wherein the alkyl substitutent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group in Table A consisting of Formula I 1 and Formula I 5 wherein R R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen alkyl haloalkyl oxy alkoxy hydroxy and carboxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group in Table A consisting of Formula I 1 and Formula I 6 wherein R R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen fluoro methyl trifluoromethyl and methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group in Table A consisting of Formula I 1 and Formula I 6 wherein R R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen fluoro methyl trifluoromethyl and methoxy.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris as provided in Formula I 3 in Table A wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen fluoro methyl trifluoromethyl and methoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I the Rsubstituent is as provided in Formula I 4 in Table A.

In one embodiment of Formula I Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a partially or fully saturated 3 to 14 membered ring heterocyclyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a partially or fully saturated 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a partially or fully saturated 5 to 6 membered ring heterocyclyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

In one embodiment of Formula I Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of

In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of

In one embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen cyano oxo alkyl OR C O R C O OR NRR N R C O R C O NRR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen OR C O R C O OR NRR and C O NRR and

R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein a said Rand Ralkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy.

In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen alkyl and OR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen OR C O R C O OR NRR and C O NRR and R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen alkyl and OR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen OR C O R C O OR NRR and C O NRR and R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl and OR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of OR C O R C O OR and C O NRR and R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen hydroxy alkyl hydroxyalkyl alkylcarboxyalkyl carboxyalkyl and aminocarbonyl.

In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen OH CH CHCH CHCHCH CHCHCHCH CH CH CH C CH CH C CH CHOH CHCHOH CHCHCHOH CHCH CH OH CH CH CH CH OH CHC CH OH CHC O OH CHC O OC CH and C O NH. In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen OH CH CHCH CHOH CHCHOH CHCHCHOH CHCH CH OH CH CH CH CH OH and CHC CH OH.

In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and CHCHOH. In another embodiment the Rand Rheterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more CHCHOH.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris ethyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen and OR wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and Cto Calkyl wherein a when the Cto Calkyl is methyl the methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substituents b when the Cto Calkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms the alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy carboxy alkoxy haloalkyl hydroxyalkyl carboxyalkyl haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen haloalkoxy hydroxy and alkoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of haloalkoxy and alkoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris ethyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen haloalkoxy hydroxy carboxy and alkoxy. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris ethyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of haloalkoxy and alkoxy.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris a Cto C alkoxy Cto C alkyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

The following are additional embodiments of the compounds of Formula I. Unless otherwise specified substituents are as provided in Formula I. Further embodiments of Formula I provided when R R Rand Rare selected from the various embodiments provided above.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and 5 to 6 membered ring heterocycyl wherein the Rphenyl and heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and 5 to 6 membered ring heteroaryl wherein the Rphenyl and heteroaryl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and 5 to 6 membered ring heteroaryl wherein the Rphenyl and heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkoxyalkyl wherein the Ralkoxyalkyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl pyridinyl and isoquinolinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl pyridinyl and isoquinolinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris a Cto C alkoxy Cto C alkyl wherein the Ralkoxyalkyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris selected from the group consisting of methoxyethyl ethoxyethyl propoxyethyl and trifluoroethoxyethyl.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris selected from the group consisting of methoxyethyl ethoxyethyl propoxyethyl and trifluoroethylethoxy.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen fluoro chloro methyl methoxy ethoxy isopropoxy hydroxy hydroxymethyl ethanone dimethylamino and ethylsulfonyl and Ris selected from the group consisting of methoxyethyl ethoxyethyl propoxyethyl and trifluoroethylethoxy.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen fluoro chloro methyl and methoxy and Ris selected from the group consisting of methoxyethyl ethoxyethyl and propoxyethyl.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris pyridinyl optionally substituted with methoxy and Ris propoxyethyl.

Embodiments where Rand RTogether with the Nitrogen to which They are Attached Form a Partially or Fully Saturated 5 to 7 Membered Ring Heterocyclyl and Ris Alkyl Substituted with OR

In one embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached is a partially or fully saturated 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl wherein the 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a partially or fully saturated 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl heterocycyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a partially or fully saturated 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl heterocycyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached forms a piperadinyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached forms a piperazinyl optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

Embodiments where Ris Phenyl or 5 to 6 Membered Heteroaryl Rand RTogether with the Nitrogen to which they are Attached Form a 5 to 7 Membered Fully Saturated Heterocyclyl and Ris Alkyl Substituted with OR

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and 5 to 6 membered ring heteroaryl wherein the Rphenyl and heteroaryl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached is a partially or fully saturated 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl wherein the 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

In another embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl pyridinyl and isoquinolinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl pyridinyl and isoquinolinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted as provided in Formula I and Ris alkyl substituted with OR wherein Ris as provided in Formula I.

Embodiments where Ris Phenyl Thienyl or Pyridinyl Rand RTogether with the Nitrogen to which they are Attached Form a Partially of Fully Saturated 5 to 7 Membered Ring Heterocyclyl and Ris Alkyl Substituted with OR

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo alkyl alkenyl OR C O R C O OR NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl and alkenyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR and

R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy and alkoxy 

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a partially or fully saturated 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl wherein the 5 to 7 membered ring heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen cyano oxo alkyl OR C O R C O OR NRR N R C O R and C O NRR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituent selected from the group consisting of halogen OR C O R C O OR NRR and C O NRR and

R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein a said Rand Ralkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy 

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein a when said alkyl is methyl said methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substituents b when said alkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy carboxy oxo and alkynyl.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents and Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy halogen alkyl OR C O R NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more OR and R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl. In another embodiment the Rphenyl thienyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy chloro fluoro methyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxymethyl C O CH C O CH CH N CH and S O CH CH .

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkyl OR and C O NRR wherein said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituent selected from the group consisting of OR C O OR and NRR and R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl. In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy methyl ethyl propyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH. In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a piperazinyl wherein the piperazinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy methyl ethyl propyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the phenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy chloro fluoro methyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxymethyl C O CH C O CH CH N CH and S O CH CH and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy ethyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH.

In another embodiment Ris pyridinyl substituted with methoxy Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a piperazinyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy ethyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH and Ris propoxyethyl.

Embodiments where Ris Phenyl Thienyl or Pyridinyl Rand RTogether with the Nitrogen to which they are Attached Form a Pyrrolidinyl Piperadinyl Piperazinyl or Morpholino and Ris Alkyl Substituted with OR

In one embodiment of Formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo alkyl alkenyl OR C O R C O OR NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl and alkenyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR and

R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy and alkoxy 

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen cyano oxo alkyl OR C O R C O OR NRR N R C O R and C O NRR wherein said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituent selected from the group consisting of halogen OR C O R C O OR NRR and C O NRR and

R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein a said Rand Ralkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy.

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein a when said alkyl is methyl said methyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substituents b when said alkyl comprises at least two carbon atoms said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy carboxy oxo and alkynyl.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents. In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above. In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above. In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris phenyl wherein the phenyl may be optionally substituted as provided above and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl and piperazinyl wherein the piperadinyl and piperazinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above. In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris phenyl optionally substituted as provided above and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a piperadinyl wherein the piperadinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris pyridinyl wherein the pyridinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl and piperazinyl wherein the piperadinyl and piperazinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris pyridinyl wherein the pyridinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a piperazinyl wherein the piperazinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris pyridinyl wherein the pyridinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a piperadinyl wherein the piperadinyl may be optionally substituted as provided above.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy halogen alkyl OR C O R NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more OR and R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl. In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl thienyl and pyridinyl wherein the Rphenyl thienyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy chloro fluoro methyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxymethyl C O CH C O CH CH N CH and S O CH CH .

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen alkyl OR and C O N RR wherein said alkyl substitutent may be may be optionally substituted with one or more substituent selected from the group consisting of OR C O OR and NRR and R R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy ethyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH.

In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the phenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substitutents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo alkyl alkenyl OR C O R C O OR NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl and alkenyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR and

R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy and alkoxy 

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen cyano oxo alkyl OR C O R C O OR NRR N R C O R and C O NRR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen OR C O R C O OR and NRR and

R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein a said Rand Ralkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy.

In another embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the phenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with hydroxy halogen alkyl OR C O R NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more OR 

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen alkyl OR and C O NRR wherein said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituent selected from the group consisting of OR C O OR and NRR and

In another embodiment Ris Cto Calkyl substituted with R wherein Ris Cto Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substitutents Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the phenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy chloro fluoro methyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxymethyl C O CH C O CH CH N CH and S O CH CH and

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy ethyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH.

In another embodiment Ris ethyl substituted with R wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen methyl ethyl and propyl wherein said methyl ethyl and propyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substituents Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl and pyridinyl wherein the phenyl and pyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy chloro fluoro methyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxymethyl C O CH C O CH CH N CH and S O CH CH and

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl wherein the piperadinyl piperazinyl and morpholinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy ethyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH.

In another embodiment Ris pyridinyl substituted with methoxy and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a piperazinyl wherein the piperazinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy ethyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH and Ris propoxyethyl.

Ris pyridinyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl OR C O R OC O R C O OR NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O Rand S O R wherein said alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl and cycloalkyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen oxo OR and C O OR 

R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy alkoxy carboxy and C O NH 

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 5 to 7 membered partially or fully saturated ring heterocyclyl wherein the heterocyclyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen oxo alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyano OR C O R OC O R C O OR NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O R cycloalkyl aryl and heterocyclyl wherein a said alkyl alkoxy alkylamino alkylcarbonyl alkenyl alkynyl and cycloalkyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O R SR S O R S O R N R S O R and S O NRR C O NRC O R SR S O R S O R N R S O R and S O NRR and b said Raryl and heterocyclyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR N R C O R C O NRR C O NRC O R SR S O R S O R N R S O R and S O NRR 

R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl wherein a said Rand Ralkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkynyl haloalkynyl hydroxyalkynyl carboxyalkynyl alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy and b said Rand Ralkenyl and alkynyl substituents may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano hydroxy carboxy oxo alkoxy haloalkoxy hydroxyalkoxy and carboxyalkoxy and

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and methyl ethyl and propyl wherein said methyl ethyl and propyl may be optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 fluoro substituents.

In another embodiment of Formula I 12 Ris pyridinyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy halogen alkyl OR C O R NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more OR and R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment of Formula I 12 Ris pyridinyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy chloro fluoro methyl ethyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl C O C CH C O CH N CH and S O CH CH .

In another embodiment of Formula I 12 the Rpyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy halogen alkyl OR C O R NRR and S O R wherein said alkyl may be optionally substituted with one or more OR and R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl 

Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen alkyl OR and C O NRR wherein a said alkyl substituent may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of OR C O OR and NRR and R R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl.

In another embodiment of Formula I 12 the Rpyridinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy chloro fluoro methyl ethyl methoxy ethoxy hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl C O CH C O CH CH N CH and S O CH CH Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl wherein the pyrrolidinyl piperadinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and diazapinyl may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of chloro hydroxy methyl ethyl propyl hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl hydroxypropyl CHC CH NH CH CH CH CH NH CHCH CH OH CHC O OC CH CHC O OH and C O NH.

When an asymmetric center is present in a compound of Formulae I through I 32 the compound can exist in the form of enantiomers or diastereomers. In one embodiment the present invention comprises enantiomeric forms and mixtures including racemic mixtures of the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 . In another embodiment the present invention comprises diastereomeric forms individual diastereomers and mixtures thereof of compounds of Formulae I through I 32 . When a compound of Formulae I through I 32 contains an alkenyl group or moiety geometric isomers may arise.

The present invention comprises the tautomeric forms of compounds of Formulae I through I 32 . For instance a tautomeric form of the following compound 

The various ratios of the tautomers in solid and liquid form is dependent on the various substituents on the molecule as well as the particular crystallization technique used to isolate a compound.

The compounds of this invention may be used in the form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. Depending on the particular compound a salt of the compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s physical properties such as enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or oil. In some instances a salt of a compound also may be used as an aid in the isolation purification and or resolution of the compound.

Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being used in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared by combining a compound of Formulae I I 32 with an acid whose anion or a base whose cation is generally considered suitable for human consumption. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are particularly useful as products of the methods of the present invention because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound. For use in medicine the salts of the compounds of this invention are non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salts encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention when possible include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic hydrofluoric boric fluoroboric phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric carbonic sulfonic and sulfuric acids and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isothionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic trifluoromethanesulfonic succinic toluenesulfonic tartaric and trifluoroacetic acids. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclyl carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids.

Specific examples of suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilic acid mesylate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sufanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate 2 naphthalesulfonate oxalate palmoate pectinate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

In another embodiment examples of suitable addition salts formed include the acetate aspartate benzoate besylate bicarbonate carbonate bisulphate sulphate borate camsyate citrate edisylate esylate formate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glucuronate hexafluorophosphate hibenzate hydrochloride chloride hydrobromide bromide hydroiodide iodide isethionate lactate malate maleate nitrate orotate oxalate palmitate pamoate phosphate hydrogen phosphate dihidrogen phosphate saccharate stearate succinate tartrate tosylate and trifluoroacetate salts.

Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include alkali metal salts e.g. sodium or potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts and salts formed with suitable organic ligands e.g. quaternary ammonium salts.

In another embodiment base salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts including aluminum arginine benzathine choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine meglumine olamine tromethamine and zinc salts.

Organic salts may be made from secondary tertiary or quaternary amine salts such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl Cto C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

In one embodiment salts of the compounds of this invention include hydrochloric acid HCl salts trifluoroacetate CFCOOH or TFA salts mesylate salts and tosylate salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formulae I to I 32 may be prepared by one or more of three methods 

All three reactions are typically carried out in solution. The resulting salt may precipitate out and be collected by filtration or may be recovered by evaporation of the solvent. The degree of ionization in the resulting salt may vary from completely ionized to almost non ionised.

The present invention further comprises methods for treating a condition in a subject having or susceptible to having such a condition by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 as provided above. In one embodiment the treatment is preventative treatment. In another embodiment the treatment is palliative treatment. In another embodiment the treatment is restorative treatment.

In another embodiment the condition is a PDE5 mediated condition. In another embodiment the condition is a cGMP mediated condition. A condition in which for instance insufficient cGMP is a major component and whose production or action is modulated in response to the PDE5 enzyme would therefore be considered a disorder mediated by cGMP.

The conditions that can be treated in accordance with the present invention include but are not limited to cardiovascular conditions metabolic conditions central nervous system conditions pulmonary conditions sexual dysfunction pain and renal dysfunction.

In another embodiment the condition is a cardiovascular condition selected from the group consisting of hypertension including essential hypertension pulmonary hypertension pulmonary arterial hypertension secondary hypertension isolated systolic hypertension hypertension associated with diabetes hypertension associated with atherosclerosis and renovascular hypertension complications associated with hypertension including vascular organ damage congestive heart failure angina stroke glaucoma and impaired renal function valvular insufficiency stable unstable and variant Prinzmetal angina peripheral vascular disease myocardial infarct stroke including stroke recovery thromboembolic disease restenosis arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis angiostenosis after bypass angioplasty including percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty hyperlipidemia hypoxic vasoconstriction vasculitis including Kawasaki s syndrome heart failure including congestive heart failure decompensated heart failure systolic heart failure diastolic heart failure left ventricular heart failure right ventricular heart failure and left ventricular hypertrophy Raynaud s phenomenon preeclampsia pregnancy induced high blood pressure cardiomyopathy and arterial occlusive disorders.

In another embodiment the condition is a condition associated with endothelial dysfunction including conditions selected from the group consisting of atherosclerotic lesions myocardial ischaemia peripheral ischaemia valvular insufficiency pulmonary arterial hypertension angina clots vascular complications after vascular bypass vascular dilation vascular repermeabilisation and heart transplantation .

In another embodiment the condition is a metabolic condition selected from the group consisting of Syndrome X also known as metabolic syndrome diabetes including type I and type II diabetes insulin resistance syndromes of insulin resistance including insulin receptor disorders Rabson Mendenhall syndrome leprechaunism Kobberling Dunnigan syndrome Seip syndrome Lawrence syndrome Cushing syndrome acromegaly pheochomocytoma glucagonoma primary aldosteronism somatostatinoma Lipoatrophic diabetes cell toxin induced diabetes Grave s disease Hashimoto s thyroiditis and idiopathic Addison s disease impaired glucose tolerance diabetic complications including diabetic gangrene diabetic arthropathy diabetic nephropathy diabetic glomerulosclerosis diabetic deramatopathy diabetic neuropathy peripheral diabetic neuropathy diabetic cataract and diabetic retinopathy hyperglycemia and obesity.

In another embodiment the condition is a central nervous system condition selected from the group consisting of dementia including vascular dementia and AIDS induced dementia spinal cord trauma head trauma traumatic brain injury hypoglycemic neuronal damage craniocerebral trauma cerebral infarct cerebrovascular accident concentration disorders chronic degenerative disorders including Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease including idiopathic and drug induced Parkinson disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis amyolateral sclerosis Huntington s disease including Huntington s Chorea muscular spasms and disorders associated with muscular spasticity including tremors epilepsy convulsions restless legs syndrome multiple sclerosis Creutzfeld Jacob disease sleep disorders including narcolepsy cognitive disorders including cognitive disorders relating to schizophrenia psychosis schizophrenia substance withdrawal including withdrawal from substances such as opiates nicotine tobacco products alcohol benzodiazepines cocaine sedatives hypnotics anxiety including generalized anxiety disorder social anxiety disorder panic disorder post traumatic stress disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder attention deficit hyperactivity disorder conduct disorder mood disorders including depression mania bipolar disorders trigeminal neuralgia hearing loss tinnitus emesis brain edema tardive dyskinesia and migraine including migraine headache.

In another embodiment the present invention further comprises methods for promoting functional recovery following brain injury. In another embodiment the present invention further comprises methods for promoting functional recovery following craniocerebral trauma. In another embodiment the present invention further comprises methods for promoting functional recovery following stroke. Ren J. N. Finklestein S. P. Tate B. Stephenson D. T. Seeger T. F. and Menniti F. S. The PDE5 inhibitor sildenafil improves functional recovery after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats mechanism of action 582.15 Society for Neuroscience 36th Annual Meeting 2006 .

In another embodiment the present invention further comprises methods for promoting neurorestoration including neurorestoration following stroke such as neurorestoration following coronary artery bypass grafting CABG related stroke neurorestoration following traumatic brain injury neurorestoration following cerebral ischemia including cerebral ischemia related to CABG neurorestoration related to multi infarct dementia and neurorestoration related to post CABG dementia.

In another embodiment the condition is a pulmonary condition selected from the group consisting of asthma acute respiratory distress cystic fibrosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease bronchitis and chronic reversible pulmonary obstruction.

In another embodiment the condition is pain. In another embodiment the condition is acute pain. Examples of acute pain include acute pain associated with injury or surgery. In another embodiment the condition is chronic pain. Examples of chronic pain include neuropathic pain including postherpetic neuralgia and pain associated with peripheral cancer or diabetic neuropathy carpal tunnel syndrome back pain including pain associated with herniated or ruptured intervertabral discs or abnormalities of the lumber facet joints sacroiliac joints paraspinal muscles or the posterior longitudinal ligament headache cancer pain including tumour related pain such as bone pain headache facial pain or visceral pain or pain associated with cancer therapy including postchemotherapy syndrome chronic postsurgical pain syndrome post radiation syndrome pain associated with immunotherapy or pain associated with hormonal therapy arthritic pain including osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis pain chronic post surgical pain post herpetic neuralgia trigeminal neuralgia HIV neuropathy phantom limb pain central post stroke pain and pain associated with chronic alcoholism hypothyroidism uremia multiple sclerosis spinal cord injury Parkinson s disease epilepsy and vitamin deficiency. In another embodiment the condition is nociceptive pain including pain from central nervous system trauma strains sprains burns myocardial infarction and acute pancreatitis post operative pain pain following any type of surgical procedure posttraumatic pain renal colic cancer pain and back pain . In another embodiment the condition is pain associated with inflammation including arthritic pain such as osteoarthritis and rheumatoid disease pain ankylosing spondylitis visceral pain including inflammatory bowel disease functional bowel disorder gastro esophageal reflux dyspepsia irritable bowel syndrome functional abdominal pain syndrome Crohn s disease ileitis ulcerative colitis dysmenorrheal cystitis pancreatitis and pelvic pain . In another embodiment the condition is pain resulting from musculo skeletal disorders including myalgia fibromyalgia spondylitis sero negative non rheumatoid arthropathies non articular rheumatism dystrophinopathy glycogenolysis polymyositis and pyomyositis . In another embodiment the condition is selected from the group consisting of heart and vascular pain including pain caused by angina myocardical infarction mitral stenosis pericarditis Raynaud s phenomenon scleredoma and skeletal muscle ischemia . In another embodiment the condition is selected from the group consisting of head pain including migraine such as migraine with aura and migraine without aura cluster headache tension type headache mixed headache and headache associated with vascular disorders orofacial pain including dental pain otic pain burning mouth syndrome and temporomandibular myofascial pain .

In another embodiment the condition is sexual dysfunction including sexual dysfunction selected from the group consisting of impotence organic or psychic male erectile dysfunction clitoral dysfunction sexual dysfunction after spinal cord injury female sexual arousal disorder female sexual orgasmic dysfunction female sexual pain disorder and female hypoactive sexual desire disorder .

In another embodiment the condition is renal dysfunction including renal dysfunction selected from the group consisting of acute renal failure chronic renal failure nephropathy such as diabetic nephropathy tubulointerstitial disorders glomerulopathy and nephritis. In another embodiment the condition is a cancer condition selected from the group consisting of cancerous cachexia tumor metastasis and neoplasia.

In another embodiment the condition is a gastrointestinal condition selected from the group consisting of nutcracker oesophagus anal fissure disorders of gut motility irritable bowel syndrome Crohn s disease and haemorrhoids. In another embodiment the condition is a urologic condition selected from the group consisting of overactive bladder bladder outlet obstruction incontinence and benign prostatic hyperplasia.

In another embodiment the condition is a skin condition selected from psoriasis urticaria and skin necrosis.

In another embodiment the condition is an ophthalmic condition selected from retinal disease macular degeneration and glaucoma.

In another embodiment the condition is a gynecologic condition selected from the group consisting of dysmenorrhoea primary and secondary infertility and premature labor. In another embodiment the condition is secondary dysmenorrhoea.

In another embodiment the present invention further comprises methods for inducing weight loss or maintenance of weight loss in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formulae I through I 32 .

The methods and compounds of the present invention are suitable for use with for example mammalian subjects such as humans other primates e.g. monkeys chimpanzees companion animals e.g. dogs cats horses farm animals e.g. goats sheep pigs cattle laboratory animals e.g. mice rats and wild and zoo animals e.g. wolves bears deer . In one embodiment the subject is a mammalian subject. In another embodiment the subject is a human.

Without being held to a particular theory it is hypothesized that compounds of Formulae I through I 32 are inhibitors of the PDE5 enzyme. It is further hypothesized that the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 inhibit the action of the PDE5 enzyme leading to an increase in intracellular cGMP levels. This increase in intracellular cGMP levels reduces intracellular calcium signaling which in turn results in vascular smooth muscle relaxation and a reduction in blood pressure.

Typically a compound described in this specification is administered in an amount effective to inhibit PDE 5. The compounds of the present invention are administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the compounds required to prevent or arrest the progress of or to treat the medical condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary widely. Dosage levels of the order from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of a compound of Formulae I through I 32 administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg. In another embodiment total daily dose of the compound of Formulae I through IX is from about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg and in another embodiment from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg i.e. mg compound of Formulae I through I 32 per kg body weight . In one embodiment dosing is from 0.01 to 10 mg kg day. In another embodiment dosing is from 0.1 to 1.0 mg kg day. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound will be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times . Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

For oral administration the compositions may be provided in the form of tablets containing 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.5 1.0 2.5 5.0 10.0 15.0 25.0 50.0 75.0 100 125 150 175 200 250 and 500 milligrams of the active ingredient for the symptomatic adjustment of the dosage to the patient to be treated. A medicament typically contains from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient or in another embodiment from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously doses may range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion.

In one embodiment the present invention comprises the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 for use as a medicament such as a unit dosage tablet or unit dosage capsule . It is understood that the medicament may be in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and or other active ingredients.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 for use as a medicament such as a unit dosage tablet or unit dosage capsule for use in treating one or more of the conditions previously identified in the above sections discussing methods of treatment.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of hypertension.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 can be administered as compound per se. Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 can also be administered. In another embodiment the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 can be administered as a mixture of compound per se and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compound per se.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions. Such pharmaceutical compositions comprise compounds of Formulae I through I 32 presented with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the compound as a unit dose composition for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 . Compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be coupled with suitable polymers as targetable drug carriers. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The compounds and compositions of Formulae I through I 32 for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dose form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 are ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneally intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dose form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in suitable carrier. For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the compounds of Formulae I through I 32 are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dose form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

One or more compounds of the present invention can be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents in the treatment of various conditions or disease states discussed above. The compound s of the present invention and other therapeutic agent s may be may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention comprises methods for treating a condition in a subject having or susceptible to having such a condition by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 and one or more additional therapeutic agents. In another embodiment the present invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 one or more additional therapeutic agents and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

For instance in one embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be administered with aspirin.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more diruretic. Examples of suitable diuretics include hydroclorothiazide such as MICROZIDE or ORETIC hydroflumethiazide such as SALURON bemetanide such as BUMEX torsemide such as DEMADEX metolazone such as ZAROXOLYN chlorothiazide such as DIURIL ESIDRIX or HYDRODIURIL triamterene such as DYRENIUM ethacrynic acid such as EDECRIN chlorthalidone such as HYGROTON furosemide such as LASIX indapamide such as LOZOL or amiloride such as MIDAMOR or MODURETIC .

In one embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Examples of suitable angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors include quinapril such as ACCUPRIL perindopril such as ACEON captopril such as CAPOTEN enalapril such as VASOTEC ENALAPRILAT ramipril such as ALTACE cilazapril delapril fosenopril such as MONOPRIL zofenopril indolapril benazepril such as LOTENSIN lisinopril such as PRINIVIL and ZESTRIL spirapril trandolapril such as MAVIK perindep pentopril moexipril such as UNIVASC fasidotril S allymercaptocaptopril and pivopril.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more angiotensin II receptor blockers. Examples of suitable angiotensin II receptor blockers include candesartan such as ATACAND eprosartan such as TEVETEN irbesartan such as AVEPRO losartan such as COZAAR olmesartan olmesartan medoxomil such as BENICAR tasosartan telmisartan such as MICARDIS valsartan such as DIOVAN zolasartan FI 6828K RNH 6270 UR 7198 Way 126227 KRH 594 TAK 536 BRA 657 and TA 606.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more calcium channel blockers. Examples of suitable calcium channel blockers include nifedipine such as ADALAT ADALAT CC and PROCARDIA verapamil such as CALANT COVERA HS ISOPTIN SR and VERELAN diltiazem such as CARDIZEM CARDIZEM CD CARDIZEM LA CARDIZEM SR DILACOR TIAMATE and TIAZAC isradipine such as DYNACIRC and DYNACIRC CR amlodipine such as NORVASC felodipine such as PLENDIL nisoldipine such as SULAR bepridil such as VASCOR vatanidipine clevidipine lercanidipine dilitiazem and NNC 55 0396.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more beta blockers. Examples of suitable beta blockers include timolol such as BLOCARDEN carteolol such as CARTROL carvedilol such as COREG nadolol such as CORGARD propranolol such as INNOPRAN XL betaxolol such as KERLONE penbutolol such as LEVATOL metoprolol such as LOPRESSOR and TOPROL XL atenolol such as TENORMIN pindolol such as VISKEN and bisoprolol.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more alpha blockers. Examples of suitable alpha blockers include prazosin doxazosin such as CARDURA phenoxybenzamine such as DIBENZYLINE terazosin such as HYTRIN CDRI 93 478 and CR 2991.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more alpha beta blockers. An example of a suitable alpha beta blocker is labetalol such as NORMODYNE or TRANDATE .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more aldosterone receptor antagonists. Examples of suitable aldosterone receptor antagonists include eplerenone such as INSPRA or spironolactone such as ALDACTONE .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more renin inhibitors. Examples of suitable renin inhibitors include aliskiren SPP 100 SPP 500 600 and YS 004 39.

In another embodiment one or more compounds Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more central antiadrenergics. Examples of suitable central antiadrenergics includes methyldopa such as ALDOMET clonidine such as CATAPRES or CATAPRES TTS guanfacine such as TENEX and guanabenz such as WYTENSIN .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more glycosides inotropic agents. An example of a suitable glycoside inotropic agent is digoxin such as LANOXIN .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more human B type natriuretic peptides hBNP such as nesiritide such as NATRECOR .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more organic nitrates or an NO donors. Nitric oxide donor refers to a compound that donates releases and or directly or indirectly transfers a nitrogen monoxide species and or stimulate the endogenous production of nitric oxide or endothelium derived relaxing factor EDRF in vivo and or elevate endogenous levels of nitric oxide or EDRF in vivo. It also includes compounds that are substrates for nitric oxide synthase. Examples of suitable nitric oxide donors include S nitrosothiols nitrites nitrates N oxo N nitrosamines SPM 3672 SPM 5185 SPM 5186 and analogues thereof sodium nitroprusside nitroglycerin isosorbide dinitrate isosorbide mononitrate molsidomine SIN 1 and substrates of the various isozymes of nitric oxide synthase.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more soluble guanylate cyclase activator sGCa . An example of a suitable soluble guanylate cyclase activator is BAY 41 8543.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more bradykinin agonists.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more neutral endopeptidase inhibitors. Examples of suitable neutral endopeptidase inhibitors include omapatrilat fasidotril mixanpril sampatrilat Z13752A 

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more endothelian antagonists. Examples of suitable endothelin antagonists include ambrisentan darusentan J 104132 SPP 301 TBC 3711 YM 62899 YM 91746 and BMS 193884.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors. Examples of suitable 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors include fluvastatin such as LESCOL atorvastatin such as LIPITOR lovastatin such as ALTOCOR or MEVACOR pravastatin such as PRAVACHOL rosuvastatin such as CRESTOR and simvastatin such as ZOCOR .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with niacin or one or more nicotinic acid derivatives. Examples of suitable niacin or nicotinic acid derivatives include NIACOR NIASPAN NICOLAR and SLO NIACIN .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more fibric acid derivatives. Examples of suitable fibric acid derivatives include clofibrate such as ATROMID S gemfibrozil such as LOPID and fenofibrate such as TRICOR .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more bile acid sequestants. Examples of suitable bile acid sequestants include colestipol such as COLESTID cholestyramine such as LOCHOLEST PREVALITE QUESTRAN and QUESTRAN LIGHT colesevelam such as WELCHOL .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more cholesterol absorption inhibitors. An example of a suitable cholesterol absorption inhibitor is ezetimibe such as ZETIA .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more cholesteryl ester transport protein inhibitors. An example of a suitable cholesteryl ester transport protein inhibitor is torcetrapib.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more apical sodium dependent bile acid cotransporter inhibitors. Examples of suitable apical sodium dependent bile acid cotransporter inhibitors include SD 5613 AZD7806 and 264W94.

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more alpha glucosidase inhibitors. Examples of suitable alpha glucosidase inhibitors include miglitol such as GLYSET and acarbose such as PRECOSE .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more biguanides. Examples of suitable biguanides include rosiglitazone such as AVANDAMET and metformin such as GLUCOPHAGE and GLUCOPHAGE XR .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more insulins. Examples of suitable insulins include HUMALOG HUMALOG 50 50 HUMALOG 75 25 HUMULIN 50 50 HUMALIN 75 25 HUMALIN L HUMALIN N HUMALIN R HUMALIN R U 500 HUMALIN U ILETIN II LENTE ILETIN II NPH ILETIN II REGULAR LANTUS NOVOLIN 70 30 NOVILIN N NOVILIN R NOVOLOG VELOSULIN BR and EXUBERA .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more meglitnides. Examples of suitable meglitnides include repaglinide such as PRANDIN and nateglinide such as STARLIX .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more sulfonylureas. Examples of suitable sulfonylureas include glimepiride such as AMARYL glyburide such as DIABETA GLYNASE PRESTAB or MICRONASE and glipizide such as GLUCOTROL and GLUCOTROL XL .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more thiazolidinediones. Examples of suitable thiazolidinediones include pioglitazone such as ACTOS and rosiglitazone such as AVANDIA .

In another embodiment one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 may be co administered with one or more alpha 2 delta ligands. Examples of suitable alpha 2 delta ligands include gabapentin pregabalin such as LYRICA 1R 5R 6S 6 aminomethyl bicyclo 3.2.0 hept 6 yl acetic acid 3 1 aminomethyl cyclohexylmethyl 4H 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 one C 1 1H tetrazol 5 ylmethyl cycloheptyl methylamine 3S 4S 1 aminomethyl 3 4 dimethyl cyclopentyl acetic acid 1 3 5 3 amino methyl bicyclo 3.2.0 hept 3 yl acetic acid 3S 5R 3 aminomethyl 5 methyl octanoic acid 3S 5R 3 amino 5 methyl heptanoic acid 3S 5R 3 amino 5 methyl nonanoic acid and 3S 5R 3 amino 5 methyl octanoic acid 2S 4S 4 3 Chlorophenoxy praline and 2S 4S 4 3 Fluorobenzyl praline.

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment or prevention described above. In one embodiment the kit contains a first dosage form comprising one or more of the compounds of the present invention and a container for the dosage in quantities sufficient to carry out the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 and an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 and an angiotensin II receptor antagonist.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 and an aldosterone receptor antagonist.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of Formulae I through I 32 and a NO donor.

The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may prepared by routine methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the COMPENDIUM OF ORGANIC SYNTHETIC METHODS Vol. I VI published by Wiley Interscience .

The compounds of the present invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in the general synthetic schemes and experimental procedures detailed below. The general synthetic schemes are presented for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting.

The starting material was the commercially available 6 chloropyridin 3 amine II. 6 chloropyridin 3 amine II was protected for example by converting to tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate III by treatment with reagents such as di tert butyl dicarbonate 2E tert butoxycarbonyl oxy imino phenyl acetonitrile and tert butyl phenyl carbonate. This reaction was carried out in solvents such as dioxane tetrahydrofuran water ethyl acetate or dichloromethane in the presence or absence of inorganic bases such as potassium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate or organic bases such as triethylamine 4 methylmorpholine pyridine or N N diisopropylethylamine at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 110 C.

tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate III was converted to tert butyl 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate IV by metallation followed by quenching with an electrophilic fluorine source.

Lithation was achieved be treating tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate III with an organolithium such as n butyl lithium or t butyl lithium in the presence or absence of additives such as N N N N tetramethylethylenediamine in solvents such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at temperatures ranging from 80 C. to 0 C. Suitable electrophilic fluorine sources include N fluorobenzenesulfonimide.

Addition of primary and benzylic amines to tert butyl 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate IV afforded amines of the formula V. This conversion was achieved by treatment of IV with amines in solvents such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol dimethylformamide dimethylactemide toluene dioxane and dichloroethane in the presence or absence of inorganic bases such as potassium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate or organic bases such as triethylamine 4 methylmorpholine pyridine or N N diisopropylethylamine at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 110 C. Amines of the formula V were converted to diamines of the formula VI by removing the carbamate protecting group under standard conditions as described in Green T. Wuts P. John Wiley Sons INC Second edition 1991 pp 309 405.

The diamines of formula VI were converted to the diones of formula VIII using various reaction procedures. In one procedure this conversion was achieved by refluxing an aqueous solution of VI in the presence of oxalic acid and a catalytic amount of a mineral acid such as HCl. Alternatively this conversion to structures of formula VII was achieved by addition of either methyl chlorooxoacetate or oxalyl chloride to a solution of VI in the presence of an organic base such as triethylamine 4 methylmorpholine or N N diisopropylethylamine at 0 C. followed by warming to either room temp or the reflux temperature of the solvent. Suitable solvents include toluene dichloromethane dicholroethane dioxane or tetrahydrofuran.

The chloroimidate of formula VIII was prepared by a number of methods. In one procedure a dione of formula VII was heated to reflux in the presence of phosphorous oxychloride and a phase transfer catalyst such as tetraethylammonium chloride. Suitable solvents for this reaction include propionitrile or acetonitrile. In an alternate procedure the formation of chloroimidate VII was achieved by dissolving VII in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane tetrahydrofuran or dioxane and treating it with oxalyl chloride in the presence of a catalytic amount of dimethylformamide between 0 C. and room temperature.

The 6 aminopyrazinones of formula IX were prepared by the addition of various primary and secondary amines to chloroimidate VIII in the presence of an organic base such as triethylamine 4 methylmorpholine or N N diisopropylethylamine at temperatures ranging from 0 C. to room temperature. Suitable solvents include dichloromethane tetrahydrofuran and dioxane. Formation of the desired pteridinone of formula I was prepared through a standard palladium catalyzed Suzuki coupling between chloride IX and suitable boronic acids as described in Miyaura N. Suzuki A 1995 95 2457 2483. A solution of the chloride IX in a suitable solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or dioxane was heated to reflux in the presence of the desired boronic an inorganic base such as sodium carbonate or cesium carbonate and a palladium 0 source such palladium II acetate or tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium to give compounds of formula I.

tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate III was converted to tert butyl 6 chloro 4 iodopyridin 3 ylcarbamate X by metallation followed by quenching with an electrophilic iodine source. Lithation was achieved be treating tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate III with an organolithium such as n butyl lithium or t butyl lithium in the presence or absence of additives such as N N N N tetramethylethylenediamine in solvents such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at temperatures ranging from 80 C. to 0 C. Suitable electrophilic iodine sources include molecular iodine and 1 iodopyrrolidine 2 5 dione. Addition of primary and benzylic amines to tert butyl 6 chloro 4 iodopyridin 3 ylcarbamate IV afforded amines of the formula V.

Amines of the formula X were converted to diamines of the formula V by standard coupling techniques as described in Ley S. Thomas A. 2003 42 5400 5449. A solution of iodide X in a suitable solvent such as tetrahydrofuran dioxane toluene benzene N N dimethylformamide isopropanol ethanol or propionitrile was stirred at temperatures ranging from room temperature to reflux in the presence of the desired amine a base such as sodium carbonate cesium carbonate potassium phosphate or sodium tert butoxide and a palladium with ligand and or a copper source. Suitable sources of palladium include palladium II acetate tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II dichloromethane adduct and tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 . Suitable ligands include triphenylphosphine tri 2 furylphosphine 4 5 bis diphenylphosphine 9 9 dimethylxathene tricyclohexylphospine tert butylphospine and 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binapthyl. Suitable sources of copper include copper II acetate copper I iodide and copper I chloride.

The pyridine VI was dissolved in a solvent such as dichloromethane tetrahydrofuran or dioxane and cooled to 0 C. The mixture was treated with oxalyl chloride and allowed to slowly warm to room temperature. The reaction was typically mixed for 4 24 hours. The reaction mixture was then recooled to 0 C. treated with an organic base such as triethylamine 4 methylmorpholine or N N diisopropylethylamine followed by addition of the requisite primary or secondary amine leading to isolation of the desired amine of formula IX.

tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate III was converted to amines of formula V by metallation followed by quenching with an electrophilic fluorine source and displacement of the fluorine with primary or benzylic amines.

Lithation was achieved be treating tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate III with an organolithium such as n butyl lithium or t butyl lithium in the presence or absence of additives such as N N N N tetramethylethylenediamine in solvents such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at temperatures ranging from 80 C. to 0 C. Suitable electrophilic fluorine sources include N fluorobenzenesulfonimide.

Addition of primary and benzylic amines to the intermediate tert butyl 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate afforded amines of the formula V. This conversion was achieved by treatment of the crude tert butyl 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate with amines in solvents such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol dimethylformamide dimethylactemide toluene dioxane and dichloroethane in the presence or absence of inorganic bases such as potassium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate or organic bases such as triethylamine 4 methylmorpholine pyridine or N N diisopropylethylamine at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 110 C.

Amines of the formula V were converted to diones of the formula VII by treatment with oxalic acid and additional protic acids such as HCl at temperatures ranging from 25 C. to 110 C. or in a stepwise fashion as detailed in Scheme 1.

The following illustrate the synthesis of various compounds of the Formulae I I 32 . Other compounds of this invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in these Examples either alone or in combination with techniques generally known in the art.

A solution of 5 amino 2 chloropyridine 30.94 g 236 mmol Aldrich and di tert butyldicarbonate 65.36 g 299 mmol Aldrich in 1 4 dioxane 300 mL was stirred at reflux for 20 hours. Additional di tert butyldicarbonate 8.30 g 38 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at reflux for 7 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into water. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give a brown oil. The oil was triturated with diethyl ether and filtered to give tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate as a tan solid. 49.84 g 92 yield . H NMR CDCl 8.24 m 1H 7.96 1H 7.27 1H 6.65 1H 1.51 9H .

To a 63 C. solution of tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate 24.99 g 109.3 mmol and TMEDA 39 mL 260.0 mmol Aldrich in diethyl ether 700 mL was added a 1.6M n butyl lithium solution in hexane 193 mL 308.8 mmol Aldrich over a period of 30 minutes while maintaining the temperature of the reaction at 60 to 50 C. The reaction was stirred at 60 C. for an additional 10 minutes after the addition was complete then warmed to 10 C. and stirred at 25 to 10 C. for 2.0 hours. The reaction was cooled to 60 C. and a solution of N fluorobenzenesulfonimide 53.49 g 169.6 mmol Aldrich in tetrahydrofuran 155 mL was added while keeping the temperature below 50 C. It precipitated on addition and stirring became difficult. The reaction was then allowed to slowly warm to 0 C. over 1 hour. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution 400 mL . The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 250 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give an oily brown solid. The material was passed through a column of silica gel with 20 ethyl acetate hexane. The 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate was obtained as a yellow solid. 15.88 g 59 yield . H NMR CDCl 9.09 1H 7.12 1H 6.55 1H 1.54 s 9H .

A solution of tert butyl 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate 11.96 g 48.5 mmol and 2 n propoxyethylamine 11.8 mL 97.2 mmol TCI in ethanol 120 mL was stirred at reflux for 22 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give a yellow solid which was triturated with diethyl ether and filtered to give 6 chloro 4 2 propoxyethyl amino pyridin 3 ylcarbamate as a white solid. 13.08 g 82 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.92 1H 6.54 1H 5.77 1H 5.11 1H 3.65 2H 3.44 2H 3.34 3.29 2H 1.65 1.56 2H 1.49 9H 0.94 3H .

A solution of tert butyl 6 chloro 4 2 propoxyethyl amino pyridin 3 ylcarbamate 7.08 g 21.4 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 20 mL was treated with 4N HCl in 1 4 dioxane 100 mL and stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give 6 chloro N 2 propoxyethyl pyridine 3 4 diamine as a brown oil. 4.93 g 100 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.63 1H 6.45 1H 4.67 1H 3.67 2H 3.43 2H 3.32 3.27 2H 2.92 2H 1.64 1.55 2H 0.93 3H .

A 0 C. solution of 6 chloro N 2 propoxyethyl pyridine 3 4 diamine 2.80 g 12.2 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 4.6 mL 25.7 mmol in dichloromethane 100 mL was treated with methyl chlorooxoacetate 1.1 mL 11.7 mmol Aldrich allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for four hours. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in toluene 30 mL and heated at 105 C. for four hours. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the resulting solid taken up in dichloromethane 100 mL and treated with oxalyl chloride 2.1 mL 24.1 mmol and DMF 3 drops . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give a brown solid. This was passed through a column of silica gel with 70 ethyl acetate hexane to give 3 7 dichloro 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one as a white solid. 2.44 g 66 yield . H NMR CDCl 8.78 1H 7.59 1H 4.40 2H 3.80 2H 3.35 2H 1.52 1.46 2H 0.82 3H .

A solution of 3 7 dichloro 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one 193 mg 0.64 mmol piperazine 118 mg 0.91 mmol Aldrich and triethylamine 0.15 mL 1.07 mmol in THF 3 mL was stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give a brown oil. This was passed through a column of silica gel with 80 100 ethyl acetate hexane to give 7 chloro 3 piperazin 1 yl 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one. 183 mg 72 yield .

A solution of 7 chloro 3 piperazin 1 yl 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one 72 mg 0.18 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 2.5 mL was treated with tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 19 mg 0.016 mmol Strem and stirred at room temperature for five minutes. A warm solution of 2 methoxy 5 pyridineboronic acid 41 mg 0.27 mmol Frontier in ethanol 0.5 mL and 2.0 M aqueous sodium carbonate 1.5 mL were added. The mixture was refluxed for 2.0 hours filtered hot through celite and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate concentrated under reduced pressure and passed through a column of silica gel with 2 methanol dichloromethane. Fractions were concentrated at reduced pressure and triturated with diethyl ether. The 7 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 piperazin 1 yl 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one was obtained as a pink powder.

A solution of 5 amino 2 chloropyridine 30.94 g 236 mmol Aldrich and di tert butyldicarbonate 65.36 g 299 mmol Aldrich in 1 4 dioxane 300 mL was stirred at reflux for 20 hours. Additional di tert butyldicarbonate 8.30 g 38 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at reflux for 7 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into water. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give a brown oil. The oil was triturated with diethyl ether and filtered to give tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate as a tan solid. 49.84 g 92 yield . H NMR CDCl 8.24 m 1H 7.96 1H 7.27 1H 6.65 1H 1.51 9H .

To a 63 C. solution of tert butyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylcarbamate 24.99 g 109.3 mmol and TMEDA 39 mL 260.0 mmol Aldrich in diethyl ether 700 mL was added a 1.6M n butyl lithium solution in hexane 193 mL 308.8 mmol Aldrich over a period of 30 minutes while maintaining the temperature of the reaction at 60 to 50 C. The reaction was stirred at 60 C. for an additional 10 minutes after the addition was complete then warmed to 10 C. and stirred at 25 to 10 C. for 2.0 hours. The reaction was cooled to 60 C. and a solution of N fluorobenzenesulfonimide 53.49 g 169.6 mmol Aldrich in tetrahydrofuran 155 mL was added while keeping the temperature below 50 C. It precipitated on addition and stirring became difficult. The reaction was then allowed to slowly warm to 0 C. over 1 hour. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution 400 mL . The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 250 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give an oily brown solid. The material was passed through a column of silica gel with 20 ethyl acetate hexane. The 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate was obtained as a yellow solid. 15.88 g 59 yield . H NMR CDCl 9.09 1H 7.12 1H 6.55 1H 1.54 s 9H .

A solution of tert butyl 6 chloro 4 fluoropyridin 3 ylcarbamate 11.96 g 48.5 mmol and 2 n propoxyethylamine 11.8 mL 97.2 mmol TCI in ethanol 120 mL was stirred at reflux for 22 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give a yellow solid which was triturated with diethyl ether and filtered to give 6 chloro 4 2 propoxyethyl amino pyridin 3 ylcarbamate as a white solid. 13.08 g 82 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.92 1H 6.54 1H 5.77 1H 5.11 1H 3.65 2H 3.44 2H 3.34 3.29 2H 1.65 1.56 2H 1.49 9H 0.94 3H .

A solution of tert butyl 6 chloro 4 2 propoxyethyl amino pyridin 3 ylcarbamate 7.08 g 21.4 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 20 mL was treated with 4N HCl in 1 4 dioxane 100 mL and stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give 6 chloro N 2 propoxyethyl pyridine 3 4 diamine as a brown oil. 4.93 g 100 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.63 1H 6.45 1H 4.67 1H 3.67 2H 3.43 2H 3.32 3.27 2H 2.92 2H 1.64 1.55 2H 0.93 3H .

A 0 C. solution of 6 chloro N 2 propoxyethyl pyridine 3 4 diamine 2.80 g 12.2 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 4.6 mL 25.7 mmol in dichloromethane 100 mL was treated with methyl chlorooxoacetate 1.1 mL 11.7 mmol Aldrich allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for four hours. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in toluene 30 mL and heated at 105 C. for four hours. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the resulting solid taken up in dichloromethane 100 mL and treated with oxalyl chloride 2.1 mL 24.1 mmol and DMF 3 drops . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give a brown solid. This was passed through a column of silica gel with 70 ethyl acetate hexane to give 3 7 dichloro 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one as a white solid. 2.44 g 66 yield . H NMR CDCl 8.78 1H 7.59 1H 4.40 2H 3.80 2H 3.35 2H 1.52 1.46 2H 0.82 3H .

In the alternative the conversion of 6 chloro N 2 propoxyethyl pyridine 3 4 diamine from Step 3 to the 7 chloro 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 4 3 b pyrazine 2 3 1H 4H dione of Step 5 can be conducted in a one pot synthesis using an aqueous solvent as described in Steps V to VII in Scheme 4.

A solution of 3 7 dichloro 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one 200 mg 0.66 mmol 1 2 hydroxyethyl piperazine 117 mg 0.90 mmol Aldrich and triethylamine 0.27 mL 1.94 mmol in THF 3 mL was stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give 7 chloro 3 4 2 hydroxyethyl piperazin 1 yl 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one. 218 mg 83 yield . H NMR CDCl 8.48 1H 7.34 1H 4.33 4.30 2H 4.04 4.00 4H 3.76 3.72 2H 3.69 3.65 2H 3.38 3.34 2H 2.67 2.64 4H 2.62 2.58 2H 1.55 1.48 2H 0.87 0.82 3H .

A solution of 7 chloro 3 4 2 hydroxyethyl piperazin 1 yl 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one 218 mg 0.55 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 3.0 mL was treated with tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 19 mg 0.016 mmol Strem and stirred at room temperature for five minutes. A warm solution of 2 methoxy 5 pyridineboronic acid 41 mg 0.27 mmol Frontier in ethanol 0.5 mL and 2.0 M aqueous sodium carbonate 1.5 mL were added. The mixture was refluxed for 2.0 hours filtered hot through celite and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate concentrated under reduced pressure and passed through a column of silica gel with 2.5 methanol dichloromethane. Fractions were concentrated at reduced pressure and triturated with diethyl ether. The 7 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 piperazin 1 yl 1 2 propoxyethyl pyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 2 1H one was obtained as a pink powder. H NMR CDCl 8.77 8.76 2H 8.24 1H 7.64 1H 6.86 1H 4.43 2H 4.06 4.03 4H 4.00 3H 3.79 2H 3.71 3.67 2H 3.37 2H 2.78 1H 2.72 2.69 4H 2.66 2.62 2H 1.53 1.46 2H 0.78 3H HRMS m z 469.2572 calcd for M H 469.2558 .

A solution of tert butyl 4 7 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 2 oxo 1 2 propoxyethyl 1 2 dihydropyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 3 yl piperazin1 ylacetate 174 mg 0.32 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 2 mL and stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure triturated with diethyl ether concentrated and recrystallized from ethyl acetate and hexane and filtered. The 4 7 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl 2 oxo 1 2 propoxyethyl 1 2 dihydropyrido 3 4 b pyrazin 3 yl piperazin1 ylacetic acid was obtained as a white solid. 81 mg 52 yield .

Prepared as in example 1 using 3 2 6 dimethylpiperazin 1 yl propan 1 ol in step 6. H NMR CDCl 8.76 8.75 2H 8.24 1H 7.63 1H 6.86 1H 4.78 4.73 2H 4.42 2H 4.00 3H 3.97 1H 3.81 3.77 4H 3.37 2H 2.93 2.86 4H 2.70 2H 1.77 1.73 2H 1.53 1.46 2H 1.23 6H 0.78 3H . HRMS m z 511.3026 calcd for M H 511.3027 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol is step 6 and 4 chlorophenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 472.2177 calcd for M H 472.2115 

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 hydroxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 454.2456 calcd for M H 454.2454 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 dimethylamino 2 methylphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 496.2983 calcd for M H 496.3036 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 3 chlorophenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 472.2095 calcd for M H 472.2115 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 methoxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 468.2527 calcd for M H 468.2611 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 2 4 difluorophenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 474.2299 calcd for M H 474.2317 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 ethylsulfonyl phenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 530.2369 calcd for M H 530.2437 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 486.2464 calcd for M H 486.2516 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 isopropoxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 496.2932 calcd for M H 496.2924 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and isoquinolin 5 yl 5 boronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 489.2621 calcd for M H 489.2621 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 hydroxymethyl phenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 468.2537 calcd for M H 468.2611 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 ethoxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 482.2747 calcd for M H 482.2767 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 fluoro 3 methylphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 470.2620 calcd for M H 470.2567 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 2 3 difluorophenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 474.2396 calcd for M H 474.2317 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 methylphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 452.2651 calcd for M H 452.2661 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 5 acetylthiophen 2 yl 2 boronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 486.2128 calcd for M H 486.2175 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 468.2603 calcd for M H 468.2611 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 3 hydroxymethyl phenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 468.2550 calcd for M H 468.2611 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and pyridin 3 yl 3 boronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 439.2361 calcd for M H 439.2458 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 3 ethoxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 482.2743 calcd for M H 482.2767 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 486.2608 calcd for M H 486.2516 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 5 chloro 2 fluorophenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 490.1991 calcd for M H 490.2021 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 4 methoxy 3 methylphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 482.2771 calcd for M H 482.2767 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 3 methylphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 452.2672 calcd for M H 452.2661 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 2 hydroxyphenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 454.2383 calcd for M H 454.2383 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol in step 6 and 2 fluorophenylboronic acid in step 7. HRMS m z 456.2417 calcd for M H 456.2411 .

Prepared as in example 1 using piperidine 3 carboxamide in step 6. H NMR CDCl 8.82 8.78 2H 8.28 8.26 1H 7.69 1H 7.26 1H 6.88 6.85 1H 5.67 1H 4.52 4.40 2H 4.23 4.18 1H 4.02 3H 3.90 3.71 4H 3.44 3.37 2H 2.71 2.66 1H 2.31 2.25 1H 1.92 1.77 3H 1.60 0.45 3H 0.90 0.80 3H LRMS m z 467.2 calcd for M H 467.5 .

Prepared as in example 1 using piperidine 4 carboxamide in step 6. H NMR CDCl 8.78 8.74 2H 8.28 8.25 1H 7.66 1H 6.88 6.85 1H 5.58 5.53 2H 4.99 4.96 2H 4.46 4.28 2H 4.02 3H 3.84 3.79 2H 3.44 3.37 2H 3.13 3.07 2H 2.65 1H 2.06 1.86 3H 1.56 1.47 3H 0.90 0.82 3H LRMS m z 467.2 calcd for M H 467.5 .

Prepared as in example 1 using pyrrolidin 3 ol in step 6. H NMR CDCl 8.74 8.71 2H 8.26 8.23 1H 7.61 1H 6.86 6.84 1H 4.73 1H 4.43 4.01 9H 3.79 3.76 2H 3.40 3.37 2H 2.08 3H 1.57 1.39 2H 0.90 0.82 3H LRMS m z 426.2 calcd for M H 426.5 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2 methyl 1 piperazin 1 yl propan 2 ol in step 6. H NMR CDCl 8.75 2H 8.24 8.22 1H 7.61 1H 6.84 6.82 1H 4.42 4.39 2H 3.99 7H 3.81 3.76 2H 3.38 2H 3.10 3.00 1H 2.81 2.78 4H 2.39 2H 1.53 1.46 2H 1.25 6H 0.81 0.75 3H LRMS m z 497.4 calcd for M H 497.6 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2R 3S 3 piperazin 1 yl butan 2 ol in step 6. HRMS m z 497.4 calcd for M H 497.6 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 2R 3R 3 piperazin 1 yl butan 2 ol in step 6. HRMS m z 497.4 calcd for M H 497.6 .

Prepared as in example 1 using S 1 piperazin 1 yl propan 2 ol in step 6. H NMR CDCl 8.76 2H 8.25 1H 7.62 1H 6.85 6.82 1H 4.71 2H 4.43 3.91 7H 3.80 3.74 2H 3.38 3.35 2H 2.83 2.80 2H 2.57 2.54 2H 2.38 2.29 2H 1.54 1.45 2H 1.32 1.25 5H 0.96 0.79 3H HRMS m z 483.3 calcd for M H 483.6 .

Prepared as in example 1 using R 1 piperazin 1 yl propan 2 ol in step 6. HRMS m z 483.3 calcd for M H 483.6 .

Prepared as in example 1 using 3 1 4 diazepan 1 yl propan 1 ol in step 6. HRMS m z 497.4 calcd for M H 497.6 .

The ICof a test compound can be measured using an in vitro assay using PDE5 enzyme isolated from human platelets. The ICis the concentration of test compound required to inhibit the hydrolysis of cGMP to GMP by the PDE5 enzyme by 50 relative to the activity of uninhibited controls. The PDE5 enzyme for use in the assay can be obtained from human platelets by appropriate modification of the method of Thompson W J et al. Biochemistry 18 23 5228 5237 1979 as described by Ballard S A et al. J. Urology 159 6 2164 2171 1998. The PDE5 enzyme so obtained can be used to catalyze the hydrolysis of H cGMP Amersham Biosciences to 5 nucleotide H GMP. The H GMP binds to yttrium silicate SPA beads Amersham Biosciences and is detected by scintillation counting. More specifically the effect of a test compound at different concentrations can be evaluated in the assay by contacting the compound with a fixed amount of PDE5 enzyme in the presence of substrate cGMP or cAMP in a 3 1 ratio unlabelled to H labeled . Scintillation counting can be used as described above to determine relative PDE5 enzyme activity. The inhibition of PDE5 enzyme activity is then calculated relative to total PDE5 enzyme activity of uninhibited controls.

The amount of H labeled substrate added depends upon the specific activity of H cGMP and the cGMP substrate is diluted with a 10 mM stock of cold cGMP in Buffer A for a final substrate concentration of 500 nM in the assay.

Stocks of standard and test compounds are prepared at 5 mM in 100 DMSO. The compound is serially diluted in a dilution plate using a 10 point log dilution format. 2 l of the compound dilution is added in duplicate to the wells of the assay plate. 2 l of 100 DMSO are added to designated control wells. 25 l of Buffer A are added to all wells. 25 l of Buffer B are added to the negative control wells. 25 l of enzyme are added to the remaining wells. 50 l of substrate are added to each well. Plates are sealed and incubated for 60 minutes on a plate shaker at 30 C. 50 l of SPA beads are added to stop the reaction. The plates are again sealed and shaken for 15 minutes to allow the beads to bind the GMP product. The beads are allowed to settle for 30 minutes and then read on a NXT TopCount scintillation counter. Data are analyzed with a curve fitting application for plate based screening. Percent inhibition in this assay is calculated as follows Inhibition mean maximum compound value mean maximum mean minimum 100.

The ICvalue is determined from sigmoid dose response curves of enzyme activity versus compound concentration.

The ICof a test compound also can be measured in an alternative in vitro assay that varies from Method 1 as described below 

The amount of H labeled substrate added depends upon the specific activity of H cGMP and it is diluted in Buffer A.

Stocks of standard and test compound are prepared at 2 mM in 100 DMSO. The test compound is serially diluted in a dilution plate using an 8 point log dilution format such that the starting concentration in the assay is 2 M for an initial ICscreen. 27 l of Buffer A are added to the wells of the assay plates. From the dilution plate 3 l of diluted compound is delivered in duplicate or 3 l of 100 DMSO for positive and negative controls are added. 30 l of enzyme are added. For the negative control wells Buffer B is substituted in place of the enzyme. 30 l of labeled substrate are added to all wells.

After incubating for 60 minutes at room temperature the reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 l of the yttrium silicate beads. These beads are dense and require constant agitation while being added to the plate. The plates are sealed and shaken on a plate shaker for fifteen minutes to allow the beads to bind the GMP product.

After allowing the beads to settle for 30 minutes plates are read on a NXT TopCount scintillation counter and the data are analyzed as follows. Percent inhibition values are calculated using the means of the 0 and 100 controls on each plate. The estimates of the 4 parameters of the logistic sigmoid dose response model are then calculated using the well level percent inhibition value for the compound. The formula for the four parameter logistic model may be expressed as Y a d 1 X c d where Y is the response X is the concentration a is the lower asymptote minimum response d is the upper asymptote maximum response c is the model IC in the same units as X and b is the slope as described in De Lean A. P. J. Munson and D. Rodbard Simultaneous analysis of families of sigmoidal curves application to bioassay radioligand assay and physiological dose response curves. Am. J. Physiol. 235 2 E97 E102 1978 . These estimates are used to calculate the concentration that corresponds to 50 inhibition.

A test compound can be tested in an ex vivo assay that measures the direct relaxation of rat aortic rings exposed to the compound. In this assay a test compound elicits a relaxation of an aortic ring by enhancing the cGMP signal evoked by a stable exogenous nitric oxide donor diethyltriamine NONOate diazen 1 ium 1 2 diolate DETA NO . An EC with 95 confidence intervals for compound evoked relaxation is calculated as an index of potency. The ECis the concentration of a test compound which produces 50 of the maximum possible effective response for a test compound.

Male ague Dawley rats 250 350 g are asphyxiated using COgas and their thoracic aortas carefully excised and placed in Krebs buffer. The aortas are then carefully dissected free of connective tissue and divided into 8 sections each 3 4 mm in length.

Aortic rings are suspended between parallel stainless steel wires in a water jacketed 37 C. 15 mL tissue bath under a resting tension of 1 gram. Tension is measured using isometric tension transducers and recorded using Ponemah tissue platform system. Each preparation is allowed to equilibrate for at least 60 minutes prior to compound testing. During this time the tissues are also incubated with 200 uM NG monomethyl L arginine L NMMA and the incubation media changed every 15 to 20 minutes L NMMA is added after each wash to maintain the final concentration at 200 uM in each tissue bath .

Following the equilibration period baseline tensions are recorded for each tissue. The vasoconstrictor response to phenylepherine 1 uM is assessed and when the response to phenylepherine reaches a maximum vascular reactivity is subsequently assessed by a challenge of acetylcholine 1 uM . Following another washout period a second baseline value is recorded after adding the vasoconstrictor noradrenaline 25 nM to each bath and incubating the tissues for a time period about 15 minutes sufficient for the tissues to achieve a stable tone. An exogenous nitric oxide drive is supplied using the stable nitric oxide donor DETA NO. The concentration of DETA NO is titrated cumulatively in half log increments to achieve approximately 5 to 15 relaxation of the noradrenaline evoked preconstriction. Cumulative concentration response curves are constructed in a single ring typically using 5 doses ring and allowing 15 minutes between each addition.

Method 3 can be modified to provide an alternative protocol for to measuring the direct relaxation of rat aortic rings exposed to a test compound. This alternative method varies from Method 3 as described below 

For the alternative method the endothelium is first removed by gently rubbing the lumen of the vessel together between the fingers prior to preparing the rings denuded rings . The resting tension is set at 2 grams and the vasoconstrictor response to a maximal concentration of phenylephrine 1 M is assessed followed after a washout period by two further exposures to 300 nM of phenylephrine. The concentration response relationship to noradrenaline is constructed in each tissue over concentration range 0.1 to 300 nM. After another washout period the tissues are constricted with an ECconcentration of noradrenaline for compound testing.

The effect of a test compound on systemic arterial blood pressure can be evaluated in a conscious pre cannulated spontaneously hypertensive rat SHR model. This assay is conducted using an automated blood sampler ABS system. The Culex ABS system Bioanalytical System Inc. West Lafayette Ind. comprises a laptop computer four control units and metabolic cages. This ABS system allows for the collection of multiple blood samples from a single rat without causing undue stress to the animal. In addition the ABS system allows for the collection of urine samples that can be potentially used for biomarker identifications. Through this approach efficacy and standard pharmacokinetic studies are conducted in the conscious unrestrained SHR rats simultaneously to define the relationship between plasma free drug concentration or potential biomarker s and pharmacological effect reduction of mean arterial blood pressure .

SHR rats at 12 to 16 weeks of age weighing about 300 g undergo surgical cannulation of both jugular veins and the right carotid artery. After surgical recovery animals are placed in the Culex cages and tethered to a movement responsive arm with a sensor that controls cage movement when the animal moves to prevent the catheters from being twisted. Connections are made between the right jugular catheter and the Culex sterile tubing set for blood sampling and the left jugular catheter for compound administration and the catheter in the right carotid artery is connected to a pressure transducer for monitoring blood pressure. To keep the patency of the catheters the right jugular cannula is maintained by the tend function of the Culex that flushes the catheter with 20 L heparin saline 10 units mL every 12 minutes or between sampling events and the left jugular cannula is filled with heparin saline 20 units mL . The patency of the right carotid cannula is maintained by slow infusion of heparin saline either directly into the extend tubing when blood pressure is not recorded or through the pressure transducer during the blood pressure monitoring. Animals are allowed to acclimate for at least two hours before compound evaluation. A test compound may be administered intravenously or by oral gavage. Blood sampling protocols sampling time and volume are programmed using the Culex software. The total amount of blood withdrawn from each animal will not exceed 750 L 24 hrs and 10 mL kg within two weeks. Heart rate blood pressure and drug concentration are monitored. Systemic arterial blood pressure and heart rate are recorded by PONEMAH Gould Instrument System Valley View Ohio a pressure transducer through a data acquisition system for recording blood pressure and heart rate for 6 to 24 hours based on experimental protocol. Mean arterial blood pressure primary endpoint is analyzed for assessing the efficacy of the compound.

Blood samples are analyzed for measuring plasma drug concentration using the LC MS MS method described below and for evaluating potential biomarkers.

Sample Preparation Plasma samples 50 L unknown control or blank are mixed with 10 L acetonitrile water or a standard solution of a test compound and 150 L of internal standard solution 100 ng mL of a test compound in acetonitrile . The mixture is centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 5 min and 125 L of the supernatant transferred to a 96 well plate. The solvent is evaporated under a stream of nitrogen and the residue is reconstituted with 80 L acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous formic acid 20 80 v v .

A 20 L volume of each prepared sample is injected onto a Phenomenex Synergi 4 m MAX RP 2.0 75 mm column and eluted at 0.4 mL min using gradient elution from 0.1 aqueous formic acid mobile phase A to acetonitrile mobile phase B . The gradient program consists of initial application of 90 mobile phase A followed by a linear gradient to 75 mobile phase B from 0.2 to 1.15 min after injection and held at 75 mobile phase B until 2.0 min. The mobile phase was linearly changed back to 90 mobile phase A from 2.00 to 2.10 minutes and the next injection took place at 3.00 min. Detection was performed by mass spectrometry using positive ion electrospray ESI with multiple reaction monitoring of the transitions m z 454.00 MH a test compound m z 408.00 m z 466.24 MH a test compound 409.33. The ion spray voltagea is set at 5000. A calibration curve is constructed by using peak area ratios of the analyte relative to the internal standard. Subject concentrations are determined by inverse prediction from their peak area ratios against the calibration curve.

Method 6 Implantation of Radio Transmitters and Subsequent Blood Pressure Screening by Telemetry in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats

SHR Rats are anesthetized with isoflurane gas via an isoflurane anesthesia machine that is calibrated to deliver isoflurane over a range of percentages as oxygen passes through the machine s inner chambers. The animals are placed in an induction chamber and administered isoflurane at 4 5 to reach a surgical plane of anesthesia. They are then maintained at 1 2 during the surgical procedure via a nose cone with isoflurane delivered via a smaller isoflurane anesthesia device on the surgical table.

Following administration of anesthesia the rats are implanted with transmitters using aseptic procedures with commercially available sterile radio telemetry units Data Sciences International Roseville Minn. 55113 1136 . Prior to surgery the surgical field is shaved scrubbed with Dial brand antimicrobial solution containing 4 chlorhexidine gluconate and 4 isopropyl alcohol followed by an application of iodine 10 spray solution. A 2.5 to 3.0 cm laparotomy is preformed and the radio telemetry units implanted into the abdomen with the catheter tip inserted into the abdominal aorta. Baby Weitlaner retractors are used to retain soft tissue. A 1 cm section of the abdominal aorta is partially dissected and that section cross clamped briefly punctured with a 21 gauge needle and the transmitter catheter tip introduced into the vessel and secured by a single 4.0 silk suture anchored to the adjacent psoas muscle. The transmitter body is then inserted into the abdominal cavity and simultaneously secured to the abdominal muscle wall while closing with running 4.0 silk suture. The skin layer is closed with subdermal continuous 4.0 absorbable suture. A subcutaneous s.c. administration of marcaine followed by a topical application of iodine is administered into and around the suture line respectively upon closing. All rats receive a postoperative injection of buprenorphine 0.05 mg kg s.c. before regaining consciousness. A typical dose volume for a 0.300 kg rat will be 0.050 ml. The rats must be fully recovered from their operative anesthesia before the administration of buprenorphine. They then receive the same dose once daily for 2 consecutive days unless the animal demonstrates that it is in compromising postoperative pain.

Following surgery the rats are returned to their cages and housed individually on solid bottom caging with paper bedding. A period of no less than 7 days is allowed for recovery before experimental procedures are initiated. It has been observed that the rats are typically hypertensive for several days following surgery and return to normotensive levels by approximately the 7day post surgery. They are fed standard rat chow and water ad libitum throughout the experimental time line.

Test compounds are administered intragastrically i.g. via gavage using of a stainless steel 2 inch 18 gauge gavage needle with a balled end. For single daily dosing the target volume is 3.33 ml kg i.g. The dose volume for a test compound is approximately 1 ml rat. The vehicles in which a test compound is administered is methylcellulose 0.5 Tween 80 0.1 in 50 mM citrate buffer pH 5.0.

Blood pressure data will be obtained using Data Sciences International s data acquisition program Version 3.0 . Blood pressure samples are recorded at 1.5 3 minute intervals for a 5 second duration 24 hours per day for the entire study. This data is processed by Data Science s data analysis software into averages of a desired time intervals. All other data reduction is performed in Microsoft Excel spreadsheets.

All documents mentioned in this application are expressly incorporated by reference as if fully set forth at length. When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

