---

title: Semiconductor memory device including delay locked loop and method for driving the same
abstract: A semiconductor memory device includes: a delay locked loop (DLL) for delaying an external clock to generate a DLL clock signal; an internal command signal generator for generating an internal command signal in response to an external command; a delay circuit for delaying the internal command signal by a delay time corresponding to a delay time of the DLL to output a delayed internal command signal; and an output enable signal generator for generating an output enable signal based on the delayed internal command signal and the DLL clock signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07706210&OS=07706210&RS=07706210
owner: Hynix Semiconductor, Inc.
number: 07706210
owner_city: Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20070628
---
The present invention claims priority of Korean patent application number 10 2006 0106780 filed on Oct. 31 2006 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a semiconductor device and more particularly to a semiconductor memory device which generates an output enable signal in synchronization with a DLL clock signal and a method for driving the same.

Synchronous memory devices e.g. double data rate DDR synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM are designed to generate a plurality of output enable signals in synchronization with a DLL clock signal CLK DLL and having different pulse widths according to a burst length and to selectively use one of them according to a column address strobe CAS latency.

Referring to an internal command signal generator receives external command signals to generate a plurality of internal command signals according to their combination. Examples of the external command signals include a chip select signal CS a write enable signal WE a row address strobe signal RAS a column address strobe signal CAS. Examples of the internal command signals include an internal read command signal IRDP. The internal read command signal IRDP contains information on period tCK of an external clock signal CLK EXT and is a pulse signal activated in response to an external read command RD .

The synchronous semiconductor memory device such as a DDR SDRAM transfers data to other external devices using a delay locked loop DLL clock signal CLK DLL produced by delaying a clock signal CLK EXT inputted from an external device such as a memory controller. Such a clock synchronization circuit includes a phase locked loop PLL and a delay locked loop DLL . The DLL is widely used in semiconductor devices because it has low noise and can be implemented in a small area compared with the PLL.

Referring to the DLL includes a clock buffer a first delay line a second delay line a duty cycle corrector a delay replica model a phase comparator and a delay controller . The clock buffer buffers an external clock signal CLK EXT and an external clock bar signal CLKB EXT to generate a reference clock signal CLK REF. The external clock bar signal CLKB EXT is a clock signal having an opposite phase to the external clock signal CLK EXT. The second delay line delays the reference clock signal CLK REF corresponding to the external clock signal CLK EXT in response to a control signal CTR. The first delay line delays a clock signal produced by buffering the external clock bar signal CLKB EXT in response to the control signal CTR. The duty cycle corrector corrects duty cycles of output signals of the first and second delay lines and to generate rising and falling DLL clock signals RCLK DLL and FCLK DLL. The delay replica model delays the DLL clock signal RCLK DLL through delay elements located in a clock path to generate a feedback clock signal CLK FDB. The phase comparator compares a phase of the reference clock signal CLK REF with that of the feedback clock signal CLK FDB. The delay controller generates the control signal CTR according to an output signal of the phase comparator .

The rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL has a phase equal to that of the external clock signal CLK EXT the falling DLL clock signal FCLK DLL has a phase opposite to that of the external clock signal CLK EXT. For convenience the DLL will be described centering on the external clock signal CLK EXT and the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL.

The DLL generates the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL by compensating a clock delay component occurring while the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL is transferred to a data output terminal of the semiconductor memory device so that signals used for an input output of a final data can be synchronized with the external clock signal CLK EXT.

Referring again to an output enable signal generator receives the CAS latency CL the burst length BL the internal read command signal IRDP and the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL to generate output enable signals OE OE OE. . . . OEN where n is a natural number or natural number 0.5 .

In other words the internal read command signal IRDP is a pulse signal that is activated in response to the read command and the output enable signal OE is a signal that is activated after a predetermined time elapses from the activation of the internal read command signal IRDP. The output enable signal OE has a pulse width corresponding to the burst length BL. The output enable signals OE OE. . . . OEN are signals that are produced by shifting the output enable signal OE. The output enable signals OE OE. . . . OEN except the output enable signal OE are signals that are activated in synchronization with rising or falling edges of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. Generally the output enable signal generator is designed to generate a plurality of output enable signals OE OE. . . . OEN in synchronization with the rising or falling edges of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL such that the output enable signals can be selectively used according to the CAS latency CL.

Referring to the output enable signal generator includes a delay option unit an OE generating unit an OE generating unit an OE. generating unit . . . and an OEN generating unit . The delay option unit receives the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL and the CAS latency CL to tune the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL according to the CAS latency CL. The OE generating unit receives the internal read command signal IRDP and the burst length BL to generate the output enable signal OE. The OE generating unit receives the output enable signal OE and an output signal TN RCLK DLL of the delay option unit to generate the output enable signal OE. The OE. generating unit receives the output enable signal OE and the output signal TN RCLK DLL of the delay option unit to generate the output enable signal OE.. Likewise the OEN generating unit generates the output enable signal OEN. The OE to OEN generating units . . . perform a reset operation in response to a reset signal OE RESTB.

The delay option unit includes a plurality of delay elements and a plurality of option circuits in order for the tuning operation. The delay option unit is provided for a domain crossing of the external clock signal CLK EXT and the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. The domain crossing is a conversion from a receiver domain to a transmitter domain. That is the domain crossing is a conversion from a domain in which the read command is recognized to a domain in which data is outputted in synchronization with the external clock signal CLK EXT. The domain crossing will be described later with reference to .

Referring to the OE generating unit includes a transfer gate TGA a first latch and a first inverter INV. The transfer gate TGA transfers the output enable signal OE to the first latch . The first latch latches an output signal of the transfer gate TGA and is reset by the reset signal OE RESTB. The first inverter INV drives an output signal of the first latch to output the output enable signal OE. The transfer gate TGA is enabled during a period in which the output signal TN RCLK DLL of the delay option unit has a logic high level.

Referring to the OE. generating unit includes a transfer gate TGB a second latch and a second inverter INV. The transfer gate TGB transfers the output enable signal OE to the second latch . The second latch latches an output signal of the transfer gate TGB and is reset by the reset signal OE RESTB. The second inverter INV drives an output signal of the second latch to output the output enable signal OE.. The transfer gate TGB is enabled during a period in which the output signal TN RCLK DLL of the delay option unit has a logic low level.

The OE generating unit not shown . . . the OEN generating unit have the same configuration as the OE generating unit of except that the output enable signal generated from the previous stage is inputted to the next stage. An OE. generating unit not shown an OE. generating unit not shown etc. have the same configuration as the OE. generating unit of except that the output enable signal generated from the previous stage is inputted to the next stage.

In it is assumed that it takes 15 ns to output the internal data to the external circuit after the input of the read command in the same semiconductor memory device. In the period tCK of the external clock signal CLK EXT is 2.5 ns the CAS latency CL is 6 the delay time of the delay replica model is 2 ns and the delay time locked after the locking at the second delay line is 0.5 ns. In the period tCK of the external clock signal CLK EXT is 5 ns the CAS latency CL is 3 the delay time of the delay replica model is 2 ns and the delay time locked after the locking at the second delay line is 3 ns.

Referring to the internal read command signal IRDP is generated after a predetermined time from the input of the read command RD. The OE generating unit of receives the internal read command signal IRDP to generate the output enable signal OE. The pulse width of the output enable signal OE is determined by the burst length BL. The output enable signal OE is generated in synchronization with a time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL and the output enable signal OE is generated in synchronization with a time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. The output enable signal OE is generated in synchronization with a time point of the rising DLL clock signal CLK DLL and the output enable signal OE is generated in synchronization with a time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. The output enable signal OE. is generated in synchronization with a time point . of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL.

Meanwhile the reference clock signal CLK REF is the buffered external clock signal and is substantially equal to the external clock signal CLK EXT. The rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL is produced by delaying the reference clock signal by D at the second delay line of . In other words a time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL corresponds to a time point delayed by D at the delay replica model of that is a time point of the reference clock signal CLK REF. In addition since the reference clock signal CLK REF is substantially equal to the external clock signal CLK EXT the time point of the reference clock signal CLK REF is substantially equal to the time point of the external clock signal EXT CLK. When the CAS latency CL is 6 data D exactly synchronizes with the time point of the external clock signal CLK EXT that is a sixth external clock signal CLK EXT after the input of the read command RD. Subsequently output data D D and D exactly synchronize with the external clock signal CLK EXT.

In the period tCK of the external clock signal CLK EXT is 5 ns the CAS latency CL is 3 the delay time D of the delay replica model is 2 ns and the second delay line of has the delay time of D so as to output data in 15 ns. That is a time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL corresponds to a time point of the reference clock signal CLK REF and it is substantially equal to a time point of the external clock signal CLK EXT. When the CAS latency CL is 3 data D exactly synchronizes with the time point of the external clock signal CLK EXT that is a third external clock signal CLK EXT after the input of the read command RD. Subsequently outputted data D D and D exactly synchronize with the external clock signal CLK EXT.

Meanwhile the internal read command signal IRDP is generated after a predetermined time elapses from the input of the read command RD. The OE generating unit of receives the internal read command signal IRDP to generate the output enable signal OE. The output enable signal OE is generated in synchronization with the time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL in while the output enable signal OE is generated in synchronization with the time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL in . The output enable signals generated after the output enable signal OE also synchronize with the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL at the time points different from those of .

Therefore the tuning for the domain crossing must be performed using the delay option unit . For example the output enable signal OE must be generated such that it always synchronizes with the time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. That is the output enable signal OE synchronizes with the time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL by further delaying it by D through the domain crossing. Therefore the output enable signal OE is also synchronized with the time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL.

The delay option unit for the tuning must be configured using a plurality of delay elements and a plurality of option circuits. In addition as the period tCK of the external clock signal CLK EXT decreases a more precise control is needed. Consequently a larger number of delay elements and option circuits are required.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing a semiconductor memory device that generates an output enable signal at a preset time point of a DLL clock signal without any delay element and option circuit that are necessary for a domain crossing.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention there is provided a semiconductor memory device including a delay locked loop DLL for delaying an external clock to generate a DLL clock signal an internal command signal generator for generating an internal command signal in response to an external command a delay circuit for delaying the internal command signal by a delay time corresponding to a delay time of the DLL to output a delayed internal command signal and an output enable signal generator for generating an output enable signal based on the delayed internal command signal and the DLL clock signal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for driving a semiconductor memory device including generating a delay locked loop DLL clock signal by delaying an external clock signal until the external clock signal is locked by a DLL generating an internal command signal in response to an external command generating a delayed internal command signal by delaying the internal command signal by a delay time corresponding to a delay time of the DLL and generating an output enable signal based on the DLL clock signal and the delayed internal command signal.

Hereinafter a semiconductor memory device and a method for driving the same in accordance with the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Referring to the semiconductor memory device includes an internal command signal generator a delay locked loop DLL circuit a delay circuit and an output enable signal generator .

The internal command signal generator receives external command signals to generate an internal read command signal IRDP in response to a read command RD. The external command signals include a chip select signal CS a write enable signal WE a PAS signal RAS and a CAS signal CAS.

The DLL circuit generates a DLL clock signal CLK DLL by delaying an external clock signal CLK EXT until external clock signal CLK EXT is locked. For convenience the semiconductor memory device will be described centering on a rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL contained in the DLL clock signals CLK CLK outputted from the DLL circuit .

The delay circuit delays the internal read command signal IRDP by a delay time locked at the DLL circuit in response to the control signal CTR.

The output enable signal generator receives a delayed internal read command signal IRDP D from the delay circuit the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL and the burst length BL to generate output enable signals OE OE OE. . . . OEN.

Upon operation the DLL circuit compares the reference clock signal CLK REF with the feedback clock signal CLK FDB and generates the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL by delaying the external clock signal CLK EXT by the delay time of the second delay line of until the external clock signal CLK EXT is locked. Meanwhile if the internal read command signal IRDP is generated in response to the read command RD the delay circuit delays the internal read command signal IRDP by the delay time of the second delay line . The output enable signal generator generates the output enable signals OE OE OE. . . . OEN activated at a preset time point of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL in response to the delayed internal read command signal IRDP D.

Since the internal command signal generator and the DLL circuit have the substantially same configuration as those of the related art their detailed description will be omitted. Hereinafter the delay circuit and the output enable signal generator will be described in detail.

Referring to the delay circuit includes a first delay unit a second delay unit and a third delay unit . The first delay unit receives the internal read command signal IRDP and the second delay unit delays an output signal of the first delay unit according to the control signal CTR. The third delay unit delays an output signal of the second delay unit to output the delayed internal read command signal IRDP D.

Referring to the first delay unit has the same delay time as that of the clock buffer the second delay unit has the same delay time as that of the second delay line according to the control signal CTR and the third delay time has the same delay time as that of the duty cycle corrector . Therefore the first delay unit may have the same circuit configuration as the clock buffer the second delay unit may have the same circuit configuration as the second delay line and the third delay unit may have the same circuit configuration as the duty cycle corrector . The second delay unit must be controlled by the same signal as the control signal CTR used to control the second delay line .

Referring to the output enable signal generator includes a plurality of OE generating units. The OE generating units include an OE generating unit an OE generating unit an OE. generating unit and an OEN generating unit . The OE generating unit generates the initial output enable signal OE having a pulse width corresponding to the burst length BL in response to the delayed internal read command signal IRDP D. The OE generating unit generates the output enable signal OE by shifting the output enable signal OE in response to the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. The OE. generating unit generates the output enable signal OE. by shifting the output enable signal OE in response to the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. The OEN generating unit generates the output enable signal OEN. The output enable signals OE OE. . . . OEN except the output enable signal OE synchronize with the rising or falling edge of the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL. Since the OE generating units and have the same configuration as those of the related art their detailed description will be omitted.

As described above the conventional semiconductor memory device performs the domain crossing using the delay option unit of in order for the tuning operation. In this case the delay option unit is implemented with a large number of delay elements and option circuits. However the semiconductor memory device in accordance with the present invention delays the internal read command signal IRDP by the delay locked time after the locking of the DLL circuit of so that the difference between the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL and the output enable signal OE are always constant. Therefore the output enable signals OE OE OEN subsequently generated are activated in synchronization with the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL.

Consequently the delay option unit implemented with a large number of delay elements and option circuits can be omitted. In addition the rising DLL clock signal RCLK DLL and the output enable signal OE always have the same margin and thus the semiconductor memory device can stably operate even at a skew caused by tCK .

As described above a large number of delay elements and option circuits can be removed thereby reducing a circuit area. Since the constant margin is maintained between the DLL clock signal and the initial output enable signal the semiconductor memory device can stably operate even at a skew caused by tCK . Moreover even though tCK decreases the problem caused by the domain crossing can be easily solved.

While the present invention has been described with respect to the specific embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

