---

title: Granules, tablets and granulation
abstract: The invention provides, inter alia, a method for producing granules from a powder, characterized in that a low compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating fine particles from the granules by entraining the fine particles in a gas stream. Also provided are apparatus for use in the process and tablets formed by compression of the resultant granules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08052999&OS=08052999&RS=08052999
owner: Atacama Labs
number: 08052999
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20071105
---
The above referenced patent application claims priority benefit from the foreign patent applications listed below 

Tablets are one of the most frequently employed delivery forms for most medicinal preparations. This situation can be explained by the fact that this dosage form allows for accurate dosage of the active component of the medicinal formulation. Furthermore handling and packaging are easier and shelf life and stability of these preparations are generally better than those of other formulations.

These same arguments also explain the reason why tablets are often used as media for other applications such as food including confectionery products aromas or sweeteners detergents dyes or phytosanitary products.

A solid bulk of granulate mass which is necessary for manufacturing tablets can be manufactured using two main processes wet granulation or dry granulation. Tablets may also be manufactured using direct compression. Direct compression relates to the tableting process itself rather than preparation of the starting material.

In wet granulation components are typically mixed and granulated using a wet binder. The wet granulates are then sieved dried and optionally ground prior to compressing into tablets. Wet granulation is used extensively in the pharmaceutical industry although it has proven to be a difficult method mainly because the liquids needed in the granule and tablet manufacturing process often have an adverse effect on the characteristics of the active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs and or on the end product such as a tablet.

Dry granulation is usually described as a method of controlled crushing of precompacted powders densified by either slugging or passing the material between two counter rotating rolls. More specifically powdered components that may contain very fine particles are typically mixed prior to being compacted to yield hard slugs which are then ground and sieved before the addition of other ingredients and final compression to form tablets. Because substantially no liquids are used in the dry granulation process the issues related to wet granulation are avoided. Although dry granulation would in many cases appear to be the best way to produce products such as tablets containing APIs it has been relatively little used because of the challenges in producing the desired kind of granules as well as managing the granulated material in the manufacturing process. Known dry granulation methods as well as the known issues related to them are well described in scientific articles such as the review article Roll compaction dry granulation pharmaceutical applications written by Peter Kleinebudde and published in European Journal of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics 58 2004 at pages 317 326.

Direct compression is generally considered to be the simplest and the most economical process for producing tablets. However it may only be applied to materials that don t need to be granulated before tableting. Direct compression requires only two principal steps i.e. the mixing of all the ingredients and the compression of this mixture. However direct compression is applicable to only a relatively small number of substances as the ingredients of the tablets often need to be processed by some granulation technique to make them compressible and or for improving their homogeneity and flow ability.

A component of a tablet is usually described as being either an excipient or an active ingredient. Active ingredients are normally those that trigger a pharmaceutical chemical or nutritive effect and they are present in the tablet only in the amount necessary to provide the desired effect. Excipients are inert ingredients that are included to facilitate the preparation of the dosage forms or to adapt the release characteristics of the active ingredients or for other purposes ancillary to those of the active ingredients.

Excipients can be characterized according to their function in the formulation as for instance lubricants glidants fillers or diluents disintegrants binders flavors sweeteners and dyes.

Lubricants are intended to improve the ejection of the compressed tablet from the die of the tablet making equipment and to prevent sticking in the punches.

Glidants are added to improve the powder flow. They are typically used to help the component mixture to fill the die evenly and uniformly prior to compression.

Fillers are inert ingredients sometimes used as bulking agents in order to decrease the concentration of the active ingredient in the final formulation. Binders in many cases also function as fillers.

Disintegrants may be added to formulations in order to help the tablets disintegrate when they are placed in a liquid environment and so release the active ingredient. The disintegration properties usually are based upon the ability of the disintegrant to swell in the presence of a liquid such as water or gastric juice. This swelling disrupts the continuity of the tablet structure and thus allows the different components to enter into solution or into suspension

Binders are used to hold together the structure of the tablets. They have the ability to bind together the other ingredients after sufficient compression forces have been applied and they contribute to the integrity of the tablets.

Finding the proper excipients for particular APIs and determining the proper manufacturing process for the combination of excipients and APIs can be a time consuming job that may lengthen the design process of a pharmaceutical product such as a tablet significantly even by years.

Both the dry and wet granulation methods of the prior art may produce solid bridges between particles within granules that may be undesirable for example in that they lead to unsatisfactory subsequent tablet characteristics. The solid bridges may be caused by partial melting hardening binders or crystallization of dissolved substances. Partial melting may for example occur when high compaction force is used in dry granulation methods. When the pressure in the compaction process is released crystallization of particles may take place and bind the particles together. Introduction of hardening binders is common in pharmaceutical wet granulations when a binder is included in the granulating solvent. The solvent forms liquid bridges and the binder will harden or crystallize on drying to form solid bridges between the particles. Examples of binders which can function in this way are polyvinylpyrrolidone cellulose derivatives e.g. carboxymethylcellulose and pregelatinized starch. Substances e.g. lactose which can dissolve during a wet granulation process may subsequently crystallize on drying acting as a hardening binder.

Electrostatic forces may also be important in causing powder cohesion and the initial formation of agglomerates e.g. during mixing. In general they do not contribute significantly to the final strength of the granule. Van der Waals forces however may be about four orders of magnitude greater than electrostatic forces and can contribute significantly to the strength of granules e.g. those produced by dry granulation. The magnitude of these forces increases as the distance between particle surfaces decreases.

In addition to finding a practical manufacturing process for a pharmaceutical product validation of the manufacturing process is essential. Validation means that the process must be able to reliably produce a consistently acceptable and predictable outcome each time the process is used. Wet granulation methods are quite challenging to manage in this respect. The wet granulation process is often quite vulnerable to small changes in manufacturing conditions. For example variations in the moisture content of starch in the manufacturing process after drying may produce a tablet that is too hygroscopic or which has a reduced shelf life. When a pharmaceutical product is being developed in laboratory conditions the conditions can be controlled relatively easily. However the conditions available in mass production environments are typically less accurately controllable thus making validation of the manufacturing process a difficult and time consuming task. The same can be said about direct compression methods where the quality of the final product depends on the physical properties of the API and excipients. A small change in such properties can result for example in segregation and flow ability problems.

Because of the manufacturing and process validation issues related to wet granulation and direct compression methods it is desirable particularly in the pharmaceutical industry to use dry granulation techniques whenever possible. However the dry granulation methods known in the prior art produce granules that are seldom usable in a tablet manufacturing process. Conflicting process design parameters often lead to compromises where some qualities of the resulting granule product may be good but other desirable qualities are lacking or absent. For example the flow characteristics of the granules may be insufficient the non homogeneity of the granules may cause segregation in the manufacturing process or capping in tablets or some of the granules may exhibit excessive hardness all of which can make the tableting process very difficult slow and sometimes impossible. Furthermore the bulk granules may be difficult to compress into tablets. Alternatively or additionally the disintegration characteristics of the resulting tablets may be sub optimal. Such problems commonly relate to the non homogeneity and granule structure of the granulate mass produced by the compactor. For instance the mass may have too high a percentage of fine particles or some granules produced by the compactor may be too dense for effective tableting.

It is also well known in the art that in order to get uniform tablets the bulk to be tableted should be homogeneous and should have good flow characteristics.

In prior art dry granulation processes such as roll compaction the resulting bulk is not generally homogeneously flowing for example because of the presence of relatively large 1 3 mm and dense granules together with very small e.g. 1 30 micrometers particles. This can cause segregation as the large typically dense and or hard granules of the prior art flow in a different way to the fine particles when the granulate mass is conveyed in the manufacturing process e.g. during tableting. Because of the segregation it is often difficult to ensure production of acceptable tablets. For this reason in the art there are some known devices in which the small particles and sometimes also the biggest particles are separated from the rest of the granules with the help of a fractionating device such as a set of vibrating screen s . This process is generally complicated and noisy and the result is a relatively homogeneously flowing bulk where the granules are hard and difficult to compress into tablets. Furthermore the process of separating small particles from granules becomes very difficult if the material is sticky and the screen size is not big enough. Generally in this process the apertures of the screen must have a minimum dimension of at least 500 m.

Another problem which occurs in dry granulation methods of the prior art is the difficulty of preparing in the development stage a pilot bulk which is representative of the production bulk. Thus the compaction forces and the other compaction parameters used at the laboratory scale can be very different from those used at the production scale. As a result the properties e.g. flow ability of the production bulk can be very different from that which has been prepared in a pilot facility. One sieving method applicable in laboratory scale is air sieving. One conventional air sieve involves passing a powder through a mesh of defined size in order to exclude particles below the specified size the desired granules are retained above the mesh and the rejected particles pass below . Air is passed through the mesh to carry away the fine particles. The problem with the air sieves of the prior art is that their capacity is not sufficient for industrial production of granulate mass. Furthermore the air sieves that rely on mesh size in the separation of rejected material often exclude desirable small granules from the acceptable granulate mass when separating out the fine particles from the mass. Yet further fragile granules may break in the sieving process where undersize particles are sucked through the apertures of the sieve.

Patent application WO 99 11261 discloses dry granulated granules that may comprise API only. In the method disclosed in the application an air sieve known in the prior art is used for separating fine particles particles and granules smaller than 150 or 125 micrometers from granules comprising up to 100 of API. The sieving utilizes a sieve whose mesh size is about the maximum size of rejectable particles e.g. 150 micrometers. It seems that the granules of the disclosure have been created using relatively high compaction forces since the proportion of fine particles smaller than 125 micrometers after compaction is at most around 26 percent see table 1 . The method results following sieving in a flowing homogeneous granulate mass that would be expected to comprise generally hard granules and that substantially is lacking granules and particles smaller than 150 or 125 micrometers.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 161 516 teaches a composition for treating airway disease using soft tablets or granules for inhalation administration. The method of the patent is suitable for producing granules that are soft enough to break apart in an airstream.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 752 939 teaches a method and an apparatus for predicting the suitability of a substance for dry granulation by roller compaction using small sample sizes.

U.K. Patent 1 558 153 discloses a method for producing organic dye material from finely divided particles by compressing said finely divided particles to produce a coherent mass of material comminuting said coherent mass of material and recovering granular material in the particle size range of 100 1000 microns from said comminuted material. The finest particles are removed by air flow.

We have now found an improved method of making granules and tablets. The method is applicable to a large variety of solid powder substances e.g. APIs and excipients as well as non pharmaceutical products e.g. those used in the chemical and food industries.

According to the invention we provide a method for producing granules from a powder wherein a low compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating fine particles from the granules by entraining the fine particles in a gas stream.

The method will typically further comprise the step of collecting the granules. As explained below the method may typically be run as a continuous process.

The powder e.g. the APIs and or excipients usable in pharmaceutical industry to be used in the granulation process of the invention generally comprises fine particles. Further the powder may typically have a mean particle size of less than 100 50 or 20 micrometers. The fine particles in the powder may typically have a minimum particle size of 2 5 or 10 m and maximum size of 150 100 or 75 m. The inventors believe that the inventive ideas of the method disclosed herein may be applicable to form granules also from powder whose minimum particle size is smaller than the typical minimum size mentioned above e.g. 0.001 0.01 or 1 m.

The mean particle size may be measured for example using a set of sieves. In case of very fine powders also microscopy may be used for analyzing the particle sizes. The flowability of such powders is generally insufficient for e.g. tableting purposes. An exemplary method for determining sufficient flowability of a mass is disclosed in the detailed description of .

Hence fine particles or fines are individual particles typically having a mean particle size of less than 100 50 or 20 micrometers and a maximum size of 150 100 or 75 m.

When several fine particles e.g. 3 5 10 or more agglomerate to form granules of maximum size of 150 100 or 75 m they are referred to as small granules. Granules larger than the maximum size are referred to as acceptable granules . Those granules that remain after fine particles and or small granules have been entrained by the gas stream are called accepted granules .

The low compaction force may be provided for example using a roller compactor. The roller compactor may be accompanied by an optional flake crushing screen or other device e.g. oscillating or rotating mill suitable for producing granules from the compacted material. The optional step of employing a flake crushing screen or other device will if necessary prepare the material for separation of fine particles and or small granules from other granules.

Thus typically the compaction force is applied to the powder by a process comprising use of a roller compactor to generate a ribbon of compacted powder which is broken up to produce granules e.g. by means of a flake crusher. The flake crusher or similar device may permit the upper size of granules to be controlled e.g. by passing them through a screen. The aperture size of the flake crushing screen may be e.g. 0.5 mm 1.0 mm or 1.2 mm.

The low compaction force may be adjusted to be at minimum such that at least one five ten or fifteen percent of the powder substance becomes acceptable granules during compaction and or fractionating steps while the rest of the material remains fine particles and or small granules.

If the compaction force used is too low inventors have observed that the granules accepted by the process may be too fragile for e.g. tableting purposes. Such granules may also be too large e.g. larger than 3 mm. Fragile granules may not flow well enough or be strong enough to be handled e.g. in a tableting process.

The maximum low compaction force may be adjusted so that 75 percent or less 70 percent or less 65 percent or less 50 percent or less or 40 percent or less of the powder is compacted into acceptable granules and the rest remains as fine particles and or small granules. The maximum low compaction force is typically up to 500 250 or 150 of a minimum low compaction force.

For instance the compaction force may be sufficiently low that 75 or less by weight of the powder is compacted into acceptable granules having particle size larger than 150 m and or a mean size of 100 m or greater and the rest remains as fine particles and or small granules.

The maximum and minimum low compaction forces will of course depend on the particular compactor and powder used. Thus for example the minimum low compaction force may be adjusted so that it is the minimum possible compaction force 15 kN 20 kN or 30 kN in a Hosokawa Osaka Japan Bepex Pharmapaktor L200 50P roller compactor. The maximum low compaction force may also be adjusted so that it is 80 kN or less 70 kN or less 60 kN or less or 45 kN or less in a Hosokawa Bepex Pharmapaktor L200 50P roller compactor.

Typically a low compaction force is 60 kN or less e.g. 45 kN or less. Typically a low compaction force is 16 kN or more.

The maximum low compaction force may also be adjusted so that substantially no solid bridges are formed in the granules of the resulting mass e.g. due to heating of the mass. Some compactors known in the art provide means for cooling the compacted material to alleviate the heating issues introduced by use of high compaction forces. With the method and system of the present invention this precaution is unnecessary.

The compaction force may be adjusted using a method appropriate for the compactor employed for example by control of the rate of feed into the compactor.

The gas stream may be provided by any suitable means e.g. a suction fan. The gas stream e.g. air may be directed through a fractionating chamber. The gas stream separates at least some fine particles and or small granules from the mass comprising acceptable granules small granules and fine particles. The separated fine particles and or small granules entrained in the gas stream may be transferred from the fractionating chamber to a separating device e.g. a cyclone where the carrier gas is separated from the fine particles and or small granules. The fine particles and or small granules may then be returned to the system for immediate re processing i.e. they are re circulated for compaction or they may be placed into a container for later re processing.

Thus conveniently fine particles and or small granules are separated from the acceptable granules by means of an apparatus comprising fractionating means. Desirably the fractionating means comprises a fractionating chamber.

As discussed in greater detail in the examples the largest acceptable granules exiting from the fractionating chamber are usually larger in size than the largest granules entering the fractionating chamber. The inventors believe that a process whereby small granules and or fine particles agglomerate with larger granules takes place during the conveyance of the material through the fractionating chamber.

Suitably the direction of the flow of the gas stream has a component which is contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass in general and accepted granules especially. Typically the direction of the flow of the gas stream is substantially contrary to e.g. around 150 180 to and preferably contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass.

The fractionating means may comprise means to guide a gas stream into the fractionating means means to put the compacted mass into motion and means to guide removed fine particles and or small granules entrained in the gas stream from the fractionating means e.g. for re processing. The compacted mass may be put into motion simply by the effect of gravitation and or by mechanical means.

A number of fractionating means are known which may be suitable for use in performance of the invention. The fractionating means may for example comprise a moving device e.g. a rotating device such as a cylinder or cone along the axis of which the compacted mass is moved in the gas stream. Movement of the compacted mass may be by gravitational means or may be facilitated by mechanical means or by features of the device e.g. cylinder . The rotating device may comprise at least one structure for guiding the compacted mass inside the rotating device such as by provision of a spiral structure. The spiral structure may be formed of channels or baffles which guide the movement of the compacted mass. A component of gravitational assistance or resistance may be provided by tilting the axis of the rotating device.

Advantageously the fractionating means does not require passage of the compacted mass through any sieve such as a mesh screen . Sieves have a tendency to break up lightly compacted granules therefore avoidance of use of a sieve permits lightly compacted granules with their favorable properties to be preserved e.g. for tableting. Moreover sieves are easily clogged which disrupts the process especially when run in continuous operation. Additionally the eye size of a sieve may vary during the period of operation due to transient clogging.

The fractionating means may contain apertures through which fine particles and or small granules are entrained. In one specific embodiment of the invention the gas stream enters the rotating device along its axis in the opposite sense to movement of the compacted mass and exits the rotating device through apertures perforations in the side walls of the rotating device.

As noted above the fractionating means may comprise a moving device e.g. a rotating device to move the compacted mass in the fractionating means. The moving device may comprise apertures through which the gas stream flows into and out of the moving device and through which the fine particles and or small granules are entrained. The apertures through which gas flows out of the device may be substantially larger than rejectable fine particles e.g. at least 50 100 or 150 of the average diameter of accepted granules. In absolute terms the apertures may for example have a minimum dimension of around 250 m 500 m or 750 m or more. This helps prevent the apertures from clogging even when relatively high volumes of fine particles of possibly sticky material need to be separated from the compacted mass. In this sense the moving device significantly differs from an air sieve of the prior art where the sieve mesh size must be of about the same size as the largest rejected particle. Instead of relying on the mesh size in the sieving the fractionating device of the invention relies on the gas stream s ability to entrain fine particles from the moving compacted mass. The determination of the size of acceptable granules is achieved by balancing their gravitational force together with other forces e.g. mechanical and centrifugal forces against the force of the gas stream.

Some of the fine particles and or small granules may be agglomerated to other granules in the fractionating means and or in the pneumatic conveying means by means of the individual or combined influence of the carrier gas stream mechanical forces attractive forces and electrostatic forces for example. Thus the process may produce granules that are larger than what is produced by the flake crushing screen of the system. In some embodiments the degree of agglomeration of the compacted mass in the fractionating phase may be significant.

The movement of the mass in the gas stream may be achieved by applying for example a mechanical force gravitational force centrifugal force or a combination of these. In some embodiments a mechanically moving component in the fractionating means may not be needed at all to realize the benefits of the present invention. In some embodiments the acceptable granules fall in a gas stream e.g. by effect of gravitation force and unacceptable particles and granules are moved to at least partially opposite direction by the gas stream.

Typically the average residence time of the compacted mass within the fractionating means is at least 2 seconds perhaps even at least 5 seconds although the desired fractionating effect including any agglomerating effect may be achievable also in a time frame shorter than that.

It should also be noted that the rejected fraction of the mass may also contain acceptable granules. By allowing some recycling of acceptable granules the overall apparatus may be made e.g. more efficient and easier to maintain as clogging of fractionating device may be more easily avoided. These rejected acceptable granules may be conveyed to the beginning of the granulating process along with the other rejected material for reprocessing. For efficiency we prefer that at maximum 30 45 60 or 75 percent of acceptable granules are re cycled with the fines. The inventors have not observed any detrimental effect on the granulate mass caused by recycling. This is attributable to the use of low compaction force.

According to a further feature of the invention we provide an apparatus comprising compacting means and means adapted to separate fine particles and or small granules from a compacted mass by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream e.g. air.

Thus an apparatus according to the invention may be characterized in that said fractionating means for example comprising a rotating device see e.g. in the drawings comprises at least one exit aperture see e.g. in the drawings through which said gas stream flows out of said means said aperture being large enough to allow a granule having acceptable properties e.g. flowability tabletability size especially size to flow out of said device.

The apparatus may further comprise a separating means e.g. a cyclone to separate the gas stream from the particles removed from the compacted mass.

A further specific aspect of the invention provides an apparatus for dry granulation characterized in that the apparatus comprises compacting means capable of producing low compaction force and fractionating means adapted to separate fine particles and or small granules from a compacted mass by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream. The apparatus may suitably comprise a roller compactor to generate a ribbon of compacted powder which is then broken up to produce granules. Said apparatus may be characterized in that said fractionating means comprises means to move said compacted mass. Said means to move said compacted mass may comprise means to move said compacted mass by gravitational or mechanical means. An apparatus according to the invention may for example be characterized in that said fractionating means comprises at least one structure see e.g. in the drawings for guiding said compacted mass inside said fractionating means.

An apparatus according to the invention may comprise means to provide the gas stream wherein the direction of the flow of the gas stream has a component which is contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass e.g. the direction of the flow of the gas stream is substantially contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass .

An apparatus according to the invention is typically provided with a fractionating means which comprises a rotating device e.g. a cylinder or cone especially a cylinder along the axis of which the compacted mass is moved in said gas stream. Movement of the compacted mass along the axis of the rotating device may be facilitated by means of a spiral structure which guides the movement of the compacted mass. The fractionating means e.g. the rotating device may contain apertures through which the fine particles and or small granules are entrained. When it is desired to produce granules of mean size x the apertures may have a minimum dimension of 0.5 or 1.0 or even 1.5 . In absolute terms the apertures may for example have a minimum dimension of 250 m 500 m or 750 m.

The invention also provides a fractionating device adapted to separate fine particles and or small granules from a compacted mass by entraining the fine particles in a gas stream which comprises a rotating device such as a cylinder or cone along the axis of which the compacted mass is moved in said gas stream and which rotating device contains apertures through which fine particles and or small granules are entrained.

In one embodiment the fractionating device comprises a fractionating chamber there being mounted inside the chamber an open ended cylinder or cone . The open ended cylinder or cone may be rotatably supported on rollers. Carrier gas is supplied to the inside of the open ended cylinder or cone . The jacket of the cylinder or cone may be perforated with apertures through which fine particles and or small granules are entrained in the carrier gas. As described elsewhere the entrained fine particles and or small granules may be captured for recycling.

In the method and apparatus according to the invention pneumatic transport may be used. Suitably the gas used to entrain the fine particles in the compacted mass is in fluid communication with the carrier gas used to transport materials in continuous operation.

Thus suitably the powder for compaction is conveyed from a reservoir to the means to apply compaction force by means comprising use of a pneumatic conveyor.

The pneumatic transport may use a device e.g. a cyclone for separating carrier gas from fine particles. The device may be for example capable of continuous operation at an about even gas flow rate in the sense that the carrier gas stream used in the fractionating process is not disturbed by pressure changes e.g. by pressure shocks such as are required to keep filters of various types open.

 Continuous operation in this context means ability to operate without maintenance or other interruptions for at least one hour eight hours or 24 hours.

One aspect of the invention is a dry granulate mass containing granules obtainable according to the method of the invention.

According to the invention we also provide a granulate mass wherein the granules may have a mean granule size of more than 50 100 200 or 500 micrometers maximum granule size of 3 2 or 1 millimeters and good flowability. The mass may alternatively or additionally have at least one two three or four of the following properties substantial absence of solid bridges between particles within the granule good homogeneity porous structure of the granules substantial proportion of small granules and or fine particles in the mass typically associated with other granules good compressibility and tabletability. Suitably the granules have a mean granule size of more than 100 micrometers and a maximum granule size of 3 millimeters.

Further without being limited by theory the inventors believe that the product of the process of the invention is influenced by triboelectric effects caused by passage of powder through the system. It is suggested in prior art that small particles may have a tendency to develop a negative charge whereas larger particles develop a positive charge or at least a less negative charge see e.g. article Generation of bipolar electric fields during industrial handling of powders by Ion. I. Inculet et al Chemical Engineering Science 61 2006 pages 2249 2253 e.g. when conveyed by a gas stream or otherwise moved in a gas stream. Thus according to one envisaged embodiment of the invention there is provided a dry granulated granulate mass characterized in that it contains granules having typically a mean size of between 50 m and 3 mm. e.g. between 100 m and 3 mm consisting of a a compressed core containing fine particles of material associated by Van der Waals forces and b a coating layer containing fine particles and or small granules of said material associated with said compressed core by electrostatic forces. According to another envisaged embodiment of the invention there is provided a dry granulated granulate mass characterized in that it contains granules having a mean size of between 50 m and 3 mm e.g. between 100 m and 3 mm consisting of a a compressed core containing fine particles of material associated by Van der Waals forces and b a porous coating layer containing fine particles and or small granules of said material. In one embodiment the coating layer b contains mostly e.g. 70 80 or 90 fine particles as opposed to small granules. In another embodiment the coating layer b contains mostly e.g. 70 80 or 90 small granules as opposed to fine particles.

Such a dry granulate mass may also be characterized in that the mean particle size of the particles of material is 1 100 m the mean size of the compressed core is 50 3000 m and the ratio of the mean particle size of the fine particles and or small granules of material of the coating layer to the mean size of the compressed core is at least 1 10 e.g. at least 1 30.

Most desirable characteristics of the granulate mass are typically good flowability good tabletability good homogeneity porous structure of the granules substantial proportion of small granules in the mass and substantial absence of fine particles in the mass.

To analyze particle size of a granulate mass a stack of for example four sieves may be used where opening sizes of the sieves are for example 850 m 500 m 250 m and 106 m.

The mean granule size of material accepted by fractionating means may be calculated as the geometric mean of the diameter openings in two adjacent sieves in the stack. where d diameter of isieve in the stack d diameter opening through which particles will pass sieve proceeding i d diameter opening through which particles will not pass isieve .

Because it is not practical to count each particle individually and calculate an average the average particle size can be calculated on a weight basis. This can be done for example with the following equation log log The standard deviation can now be calculated as follows log log log 

More detailed description of the exemplary size analysis method shown here is available in an article Scott Baker and Tim Herrman Evaluating Particle Size Kansas State University May 2002. 

It should be born in mind that when the particle size of the granulate mass is analyzed by the above method at least some of the coating particles small granules may be detached from the compressed core.

Flow characteristics e.g. good flowability may be determined using an open ended cone having a round opening in the narrower end of the cone e.g. a filter funnel. One set of such cones and related test method is described in more detail with respect to .

Substantial absence of solid bridges in the granule structure means for example structure where less than 30 or 10 of particles of the granule are kept together with solid bridges on average. Presence of solid bridges in the granule structure may be analyzed for example using a scanning electron microscope. With such device it may be possible to identify individual fine particles in the granulate structure as well as visible solid bridges such as crystallized structures between the particles of the granule.

Good homogeneity in this context may mean for example a granulate mass that consists of granules whose standard deviation from mean granule size is less than 2.5 less than 2.25 or less than 2.0. Inventors further believe that the homogeneous characteristics of the granulate mass of embodiments of the invention may have at least partially be achievable by the porous structure of the granules. Because of the homogeneous characteristics of the mass the mass may be conveyed in the manufacturing process without any significant segregation of material. Yet further good homogeneity of the granular mass may contribute to the good tabletability of the mass e.g. as demonstrated by less susceptibility to the capping phenomenon.

The structure of the accepted granules and especially a coating layer may be generally porous i.e. dense granules may be substantially absent in the granulate mass. The core of the granule is expected to be porous due to the use of low compaction force. Porous structure of the granule may alternatively or additionally mean for example that the surface of the granule may be observed to comprise pores and or loosely attached small granules and or fine particles of size of approximately at least 1 2 or 5 micrometers and less than 150 100 or 50 micrometers. For example images about granules having porous structure see and

Substantial absence of dense granules means that less than 20 or 10 percent of the resulting mass weight is dense granules. Dense granule is e.g. a granule whose surface appears to be a compressed non porous one see e.g. .

The granulate mass may also comprise a substantial proportion of small granules and or fine particles possibly forming a coating layer on larger granules which is loosely attached e.g. via electrostatic forces. A substantial proportion of small granules and or fine particles may be more than 2 5 or 10 of the overall weight of the granulate mass. Presence of small preferably porous granules and or fine particles may contribute positively e.g. to the flowability and compressibility of the granulate mass. This may for example lead to an improved tensile strength and or more rapid disintegration time of a tablet compressed from the granulate mass. Surprisingly and contrary to what is taught in the prior art e.g. in WO99 11261 the substantial proportion of small granules and or fine particles in the granulate mass of the invention does generally not seem to affect the flowability of the granulate mass in any significant negative manner.

The inventors have also discovered that at least in some cases if granules obtained by the process of the invention are taken and a proportion of the starting material composed of fine particles is added back eg up to 15 fine particles is added back to a granulate mass that may already have e.g. 20 of fine particles and or small granules e.g. mass of flowability example 3 then the homogeneity flowability and tabletability of the granulate mass is not adversely affected in a significant manner. The added fines are perhaps taken into the porous surface of granules formed by the process of the invention. Inventors thus believe that in some embodiments it may be possible to use granules of some embodiments of the invention as carrier granules that may absorb e.g. into the pores of the granules up to 10 20 30 or more of fine particles and or small granules comprising same or different material as the carrier granules. The flowability of such mixture may be at an excellent very good or good level.

The granulate mass is believed to have good compressibility because at least the surface of the granules is porous. The compressibility of the granulate mass of the invention may be good i.e. it may have a Hausner ratio of greater than 1.15 1.20 or 1.25. The low compaction force of the present invention may be adjusted so that the compressibility as indicated by the Hausner ratio stays at good level. The Hausner ratio may be calculated using formula ppwhere prepresents tapped bulk density of the granulate mass and prepresents the loose bulk density of the granulate mass. The bulk densities may be measured by pouring 50 mg of granulate mass into a glass cylinder e.g. make FORTUNA model 250 2 ml having an inner diameter of 3.8 mm. After pouring the mass into the cylinder the volume of the mass is observed from the scale of the glass cylinder and loose bulk density of the mass is calculated. To measure the tapped bulk density the glass cylinder is tapped 100 times against a table top using a force comparable to a drop from the height of 5 cm. The volume of the tapped mass is observed from the scale of the glass cylinder and tapped bulk density of the mass is calculated.

Surprisingly and contrary to what is taught in the prior art e.g. in WO99 11261 the compressibility of the granulate mass of the invention does not generally exhibit any negative influence on the flowability of the granulate mass. For example a granulate mass of an embodiment of the invention with Hausner ratio above 1.25 generally exhibits very good or excellent flow characteristics.

Porous well flowing granules are generally desired in the pharmaceutical industry for example because it is possible to produce enhanced tablets from porous granules. Such tablets may for example disintegrate substantially quicker than tablets manufactured from dense granules. Further tablets compressed from porous granules often show higher tensile strength than tablets compressed from dense granules. High tensile strength is often desirable for tablets as such tablets are easier to package and transport than fragile tablets.

The granulate mass may be tabletable so that using standard tableting techniques e.g. using tableting forces available in widely used tableting machines it is possible to form it into tablets having tensile strength of at least 5N 10N or 15N. Tensile strength may be measured for example using a measuring device of make MECMESIN Mecmesin Limited West Sussex UK and model BFG200N.

The granulate mass may comprise at least one API and or at least one excipient usable in pharmaceutical products. In one embodiment the granulate mass comprises eg consists of at least one eg one API. In another embodiment the granulate mass comprises at least one eg one API and at least one eg one excipient.

Thus the invention also provides a process for preparing a tablet which comprises compressing a dry granulated granulate mass according to the invention optionally blended with one or more additional excipients. Said one or more additional excipients typically comprises a lubricant e.g. magnesium stearate. A tablet obtainable by such a process is another aspect of the invention.

According to the yet further feature of the invention we provide a tablet comprising dry granulated granules. The tablet is characterized in that the tablet may have substantial absence of solid bridges binding particles within the granules forming the tablet. Alternatively or further the tablet may have at least two or three of the following properties high tensile strength high drug load low amount of lubricant quick disintegration time and insensitivity to storage time.

Insensitivity to storage time may mean for example that the weight gain of the tablet in comparison to a new tablet is less than 2.0 1.5 or 1.0 after the tablet has been stored for four months in temperature of 40 degrees Celsius and in the relative humidity of 75 .

High drug load means that for example the tablet may comprise at least 40 percent 60 percent or 80 percent of API s of the overall weight of the tablet.

Quick disintegration time may be less than 600 120 or 30 seconds when a tablet is put into water of approximately body temperature i.e. 37 degrees Celsius .

As may be seen from the examples tablets of the invention which have high tensile strength may nevertheless be capable of quick disintegration in water.

High tensile strength of the tablet may be more than 100N 60N 30N or 15N e.g. as measured by MECMESIN BFG200N device.

A low amount of lubricant may be less than 1.0 0.5 0.3 or 0.2 of the weight of the tablet. It is known in the art that lubricant material such as magnesium stearate often has detrimental effect on tensile strength disintegration time and or dissolution time of a tablet. When mixing lubricant with granules of the prior art the lubricant material may have a tendency to form a film around the dense granules for example. The film may prevent formation of proper bonds between granules during tableting. See e.g. article A coherent matrix model for the consolidation and compaction of an excipient with magnesium stearate by K. A. Rietma et. al. International Journal of Pharmaceutics 97 1993 pages 195 203. Use of a low amount of lubricant with the granules of the present invention may thus contribute positively to the tensile strength and disintegration time of the tablet. The inventors speculate that the possibly soft and porous surface of the granule of the invention may prevent the formation of such films because the granules may have a larger more uneven surface available for the lubricant to associate with. Thus the properties of the resulting tablet may be further improved.

The lubricant may be distributed essentially on the porous surface of the granules of the tablet. The lubricant may for example be located essentially on the surface and in the pores of the surface of the granules forming the tablet whereas there is no or little lubricant inside the core of the granule. The lubricant may be distributed e.g so that more than 90 80 or 70 percent of lubricant is located in a cross sectional area cut surface that is less than 10 20 or 30 percent of the total sectional area of a tablet. The location of the lubricant particles on a sectional area of a tablet may be observed using e.g. a system comprising scanning electron microscope and additional equipment capable of identifying especially the particles comprising lubricant material.

A tablet suitably exhibits substantially low percentage of liquid and or hydrogen bonds lubricant is unevenly distributed across the tablet and the tablet has further at least two of the following properties quick disintegration time high tensile strength high drug load and low amount of lubricant.

The tablet of the invention may comprise excipient that comprises dry granulated starch. For example it may comprise excipient that comprises up to 60 of dry granulated starch.

A granulate mass or tablet of the present invention may typically comprise at minimum 1 5 or 10 percent weight and at maximum 100 95 90 80 or 70 of at least one active pharmaceutical ingredient. In some embodiments said powder contains an amount of active pharmaceutical ingredient of at least 60 e.g. at least 80 . The granulate mass or tablet may further comprise at minimum 5 10 20 or 30 weight and at maximum 99 95 or 90 of at least one excipient e.g. long chain polymer e.g. starch or cellulose.

To control the disintegration and dissolution time of a tablet of the present invention up to 90 70 or 50 percent weight of e.g. metholose or hypromellose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose may be added to the formulation. The dissolution time of such tablet may be at least 1 4 8 or 12 hours in the gastric system.

The dissolution profile of a formulation comprising e.g. hypromellose may be for example such that after about 2 hours from about 12 to about 60 of the API s is released after about 4 hours from about 25 to about 80 of the API s is released after about 8 hours from about 50 to about 100 of the API S is released after about 12 hours more than about 75 of the API s is released.

To achieve quick disintegration time for a tablet that comprises at least 5 20 or 30 percent weight of at least one active pharmaceutical ingredient the tablet may further comprise at minimum 1 3 or 5 percent and at maximum 7 10 or 20 percent weight of disintegrant. In some embodiments the percentage of disintegrant in a tablet may be also higher than 20 percent. The disintegrant may be e.g. some starch or carboxymethyl cellulose CMC e.g. Nymcel or a combination of these. The granulate mass or tablet may also comprise at minimum 1 5 or 10 percent and at maximum 60 80 or 94 weight of filler diluent e.g. microcrystalline cellulose. The API disintegrant and filler may be granulated together or separately using the method of the present invention.

For improving taste of e.g. a fast disintegrating tablet orally disintegrating tablet up to 50 70 or 90 of sweetener e.g. xylitol may be included into the tablet. If necessary the sweetener may be granulated using an embodiment of the method of present invention. Further the sweetener may be granulated separately or together with at least one other component API or excipient of a formulation. We have observed that at least with some APIs use of separately granulated sweetener xylitol in a tablet may result as a quicker release time in comparison to a tablet where sweetener is granulated together with other components.

The tablet of the invention may have good content uniformity. For example the standard deviation of the weight of the tablet may be less than 3.0 2.0 or 1.0 of the average weight of the tablets.

The granulation method and apparatus of the invention can be applied for many purposes in the pharmaceutical chemical and food industries. The method and apparatus use low compaction force and gas stream to form granules of desired properties. The compaction force may be adjusted so that introduction of solid bridges is substantially avoided in the compaction step. The method and apparatus are adapted to treat the product granules gently to avoid breaking them to separate fine particles and or small granules from the acceptable granules and optionally to re circulate the rejected material for re processing in the system. The apparatus and method can be made easily adjustable controllable and more or less continuously operable.

The size distribution and or flowability of the granules produced by the apparatus may be analyzed in real time and the size distribution of the granules may be adjusted based on the analysis. For example the flake crushing screen see and below may be such that the aperture size of the mesh used for flake crushing can be varied by using some adjustment means. Another adjustable parameter typically is the gas flow rate of the fractionating device.

The method can be made economic as it allows re processing of rejected material with practically no waste and can be adapted to provide fast treatment of large amounts of material. The apparatus of the present invention may be adapted to be easy to clean and assemble and the process may be adapted to be stable and predictable thus making it easy to control.

Because of for example the homogeneity and or flowability of the resulting granules issues related to segregation can be avoided. The method of the present invention can be used in both small and large scale applications. Thus when a product e.g. granules or a tablet containing API s has been successfully developed under laboratory conditions the time required to set up a validated large scale manufacturing process can be short.

Because the method and apparatus of the present system is capable of granulating a variety of powders including those consisting of 100 APIs it is possible to produce granulate mass from separate substances in separate granulation processes and mix the resulting granules together after their individual granulations. Granulating API and excipients separately before blending may be advantageous e.g. when raw materials have very different particle sizes.

Different kinds of end products including tablets oral suspensions and capsules may be manufactured from the granulate mass.

According to the invention we also provide a process for manufacture of a tablet which comprises tableting a granule according to the invention or a granule made using the method of the invention.

We have found that the method of the present invention may be used for producing granules of large variety of powder substances usable in pharmaceutical industry.

The method of the present invention may thus be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising APIs of one or multiple classes of APIs the classes including for example antipyretics analgesics antiphlogistics hypnosedatives antihypnotics antacids digestion aids cardiotonics antiarrhythmics antihypertensives vasodilators diuretics antiulcers antiflatulents therapeutic agents for osteoporosis antitussives expectorants antiasthmatics antifungals micturition improvers revitalizers vitamins and other orally administered agents. APIs can be used singly or two or more of them can be used in combination.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising specific APIs for example paracetamol acebutolol metformin fluoxetine aspirin aspirin aluminum acetaminophen ethenzamide sazapirin salicylamide lactyl phenetidine isothipendyl diphenylpyraline diphenhydramine difeterol triprolidine tripelennamine thonzylamine fenethazine methdilazine diphenhydramine salicylate carbinoxamine diphenyldisulfonate alimemazine tartrate diphenhydramine tannate diphenylpyraline teoclate mebhydrolin napadisylate promethazine methylene disalicylate carbinoxamine maleate chlorophenylamine dl maleate chlorophenylamine d maleate difeterol phosphate alloclamide cloperastine pentoxyverine carbetapentane tipepidine dextromethorphan hydrobromide dextromethorphan phenolphthalinate tipepidine hibenzate cloperastine fendizoate codeine phosphate dihydrocodeine phosphate noscapine dl methylephedrine saccharin salt potassium guaiacolsulfonate guaifenesin caffeine anhydrous caffeine vitamin B1 and derivatives thereof vitamin B2 and derivatives thereof vitamin C and derivatives thereof hesperidin and derivatives thereof and salts thereof vitamin B6 and derivatives thereof and nicotinamide calcium pantothenate aminoacetate magnesium silicate synthetic aluminum silicate synthetic hydrotalcite magnesium oxide aluminum glycinate coprecipitation product of aluminum hydroxide hydrogen carbonate coprecipitation product of aluminum hydroxide calcium carbonate magnesium carbonate coprecipitation product of magnesium hydroxide potassium aluminum sulfate magnesium carbonate magnesium aluminometasilicate ranitidine cimetidine famotidine naproxen diclofenac piroxicam azulene indometacin ketoprofen ibuprofen difenidol promethazine meclizine dimenhydrinate fenethazine tannate diphenhydramine fumarate scopolamine hydrobromide oxyphencyclimine dicyclomine metixene atropine methylbromide anisotropine methylbromide scopolamine methylbromide methylbenactyzium bromide belladonna extract isopropamide iodide papaverine aminobenzoic acid cesium oxalate aminophylline diprophylline theophylline isosorbide dinitrate ephedrine cefalexin ampicillin sucralfate allylisopropylacetylurea bromovalerylurea and where appropriate other pharmaceutically acceptable acid or base addition salts thereof e.g. those salts which are in common usage and other such pharmaceutically active ingredients described in European Pharmacopoeia 3Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising solid APIs that may be poorly water soluble such as for example antipyretic analgesic agents such as benzoic acid quinine calcium gluconate dimercaprol sulfamine theobromine riboflavin mephenesin phenobarbital thioacetazone quercetin rutin salicylic acid pyrabital irgapyrin digitoxin griseofulvin phenacetin nervous system drug sedation narcotics muscle relaxant hypotensive agent antihistamines antibiotics such as acetylspiramycin erythromycin kitasamycin chloramphenicol nystatin colistin sulfate steroid hormones such as methyltestosterone progesterone estradiol benzoate ethinylestradiol deoxycorticosterone acetate cortisone acetate hydrocortisone prednisolone non steroid yolk hormones such as dienestrol diethylstilbestrol chlorotrianisene other lipid soluble vitamins and where appropriate other pharmaceutically acceptable acid or base addition salts thereof e.g. those salts which are in common usage and other such pharmaceutically active ingredients described in European Pharmacopoeia 3Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The active pharmaceutical ingredient may for example be selected from acebutolol HCl fluoxetine HCl paracetamol sodium valproate ketoprofen and metformin HCl.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising excipients or other ingredients usable in e.g. pharmaceutical industry such as for example L asparagic acid wheat gluten powder acacia powder alginic acid alginate alfa starch ethyl cellulose casein fructose dry yeast dried aluminum hydroxide gel agar xylitol citric acid glycerin sodium gluconate L glutamine clay croscarmellose sodium Nymcel sodium carboxymethyl cellulose crospovidone calcium silicate cinnamon powder crystalline cellulose carmellose sodium synthetic aluminum silicate wheat starch rice starch potassium acetate cellulose acetate phthalate dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate 2 6 dibutyl 4 methylphenol dimethylpolysiloxane tartaric acid potassium hydrogen tartrate magnesium hydroxide calcium stearate magnesium stearate purified shellac purified sucrose D sorbitol skim milk powder talc low substitution degree hydroxypropylcellulose dextrin powdered tragacanth calcium lactate lactose sucrose potato starch hydroxypropylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate glucose partially pregelatinized starch pullulan powdered cellulose pectin polyvinylpyrrolidone maltitol maltose D mannitol anhydrous lactose anhydrous calcium hydrogenphosphate anhydrous calcium phosphate magnesium aluminometasilicate methyl cellulose aluminum monostearate glyceryl monostearate sorbitan monostearate medicinal carbon granular corn starch dl malic acid and possibly other such others classified as excipient in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The method of the present invention may be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising disintegrants such as for example carboxymethyl cellulose Nymcel sodium carboxymethyl cellulose croscarmellose sodium cellulose such as low substitution degree hydroxypropylcellulose starch such as sodium carboxymethyl starch hydroxypropyl starch rice starch wheat starch potato starch maize starch partly pregelatinized starch and others classified as disintegrators in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The method of the present invention may be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising binders such as for example synthetic polymers such as crospovidone saccharides such as sucrose glucose lactose and fructose sugar alcohols such as mannitol xylitol maltitol erythritol sorbitol water soluble polysaccharides such as celluloses such as crystalline cellulose microcrystalline cellulose powdered cellulose hydroxypropylcellulose and methyl cellulose starches synthetic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone inorganic compounds such as calcium carbonate and others classified as binders in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3rd Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

Examples of fluidizing agents include silicon compounds such as silicon dioxide hydrate light silicic anhydride and others classified as fluidizing agents in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3rd Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

According to another aspect of the invention we provide a granulate mass characterized in that the mass is tabletable and has good flowability and that the mass comprises at least 10 of at least one of the following pharmaceutical ingredients 

According to another aspect of the invention we provide a tablet characterized in that the tensile strength of the tablet is at least 10N and the tablet is manufactured from dry granulated granules comprising at least 10 weight of at least one of the following active pharmaceutical ingredients 

According to another aspect of the invention we provide a tablet formed by compression of a dry granulate mass comprising 60 or more e.g. 70 or 80 or more of active pharmaceutical ingredient selected from paracetamol metformin HCl acebutolol HCl and sodium valproate. The balance of the composition of the dry granulate mass may for example be one or more disintegrants selected from starch cellulose and cellulose derivatives. According to another aspect of the invention we provide a tablet formed by compression of a dry granulate mass comprising i granules comprising 80 or more e.g. 90 or more e.g. 100 of active pharmaceutical ingredient selected from paracetamol metformin HCl acebutolol HCl and sodium valproate and ii granules comprising one or more disintegrants selected from starch cellulose and cellulose derivatives. In either case a lubricant may optionally be blended with the dry granulate mass before compressing it into tablets.

In some embodiments the tablets disintegrate in water of approximately body temperature i.e 37 degrees Celsius in less than 60 seconds. For quick disintegrating tablets the API suitably does not exceed 95 of the tablet composition and the composition contains at least 2 of disintegrant. The tablets suitably have a tensile strength of greater than 40N. In one embodiment the tablets may comprise xylitol in an amount of 90 or less.

Some embodiments of the invention are described herein and further applications and adaptations of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The apparatus and of an embodiment of the invention comprises a compacting device that compacts powder material into granules and a fractionating device that fractionates at least some fine particles and or small granules away from acceptable granules. Two different alternatives for a fractionating device are shown in and . The fractionating device in is shown in more detail in . The fractionating device in is shown in more detail in . The apparatus shown in and comprise a raw material feeding container into which material to be granulated is fed. The feeding container is connected to a pneumatic conveyor pipeline to which the material is passed through a feeder valve . The tubes of the pneumatic conveyor system have a diameter of about 47 mm and their material may be for example some suitable plastic material e.g. polyethene. The feeder valve may be a so called star shape flap valve. One such valve is manufactured by Italian pharmaceutical device manufacturer CO.RA Lucca Italy . In operation the closing element of the valve may be turned 180 alternately in either direction whereby buildup of the powder substance in the container can be avoided. Other equipment intended for continuous charging of powder substance such as compartment feeders may also be used.

The pressure of the air flowing within the conveyor may be adjusted to be lower than that of the surroundings. This may be achieved for example using an extractor suction fan . The suction fan is of make BUSCH Maulburg Germany and model Mink MM 1202 AV. The fan may be operated for example at 1860 RPM. Makeup carrier gas may be supplied through a connection . The material fed from the feeding container is transported through the conveyor into a separating device wherein fine rejected particles and new feed from container are separated from the carrier gas. The fan can be provided with filters shown in situated beside the separating device. The device may be capable of continuous operation. One such device is a cyclone. After the separating step the separated powder falls into an intermediate vessel .

The container can be mounted on load cells to measure the weight of the material. The intermediate vessel is provided with a valve which may be of the same type as the feeding container valve . From the intermediate vessel the powder is transferred to a compacting device e.g. roller compactor to produce a ribbon of compacted material which is then passed to a flake crushing screen where granules are created by crushing the ribbon. In the context of this invention compacting is considered as the step of the process that produces granules to be fractionated regardless of whether a separate screen or milling device is used or not. The compaction force of the compactor may be adjusted by e.g. altering the feed rate of the powder substance the rotating speed of the rolls of the roller compactor the pressure applied to the rolls of the compactor device and or the thickness of the resulting ribbon. The compaction force applied by the compactor may be adjusted to a low level to achieve the desired properties of the compacted mass e.g. the porosity of the resulting granules and or proportion of fine particles and or small granules. The compactor and the flake crushing screen are devices well known to a person skilled in the art. After passing the compacting and flake crushing devices the material is partially in the form of granules but part of the material will still be in the form of fine particles and or small granules. The maximum size of the granules as well as the mean size of the granules may be affected by for example the mesh size of the flake crushing screen. It should be noted however that size of a granule may increase as result of agglomeration in the fractionating and or conveying steps of the process.

In some embodiments not shown in figure the apparatus may comprise more than one compacting device e.g. roller compactor to improve e.g. capacity and or continuous processing capabilities of the apparatus. The compacting devices may require some periodic service breaks e.g. for cleaning up. The apparatus may continue operation even if one of the compacting devices is being serviced.

The product from the above steps that contains fine particles and porous granules and that may be statically charged e.g. by triboelectrification is conveyed to a fractionating chamber . There may be one or two e.g. star shaped flap valves between compacting device and fractionating device to control the flow of compacted material to the fractionating device. The fractionating device divides the granulate mass into an accepted fraction and a rejected fraction on the basis of how different particles of the mass are affected by the carrier gas stream that flows in the fractionating device. The rejected fraction passes with the fed carrier gas stream to the feed conveyor for re processing and the accepted fraction is led into a product container . By this means the product granules are treated gently and a relatively large volume of material comprising mostly fine particles and or small granules is removed from the mass.

The operation of the fractionating chamber is described in more detail with reference to . There are many possible alternative fractionating devices.

In the embodiments shown in and load cells are fitted to the container . Such sensors and other instrumentation can also be arranged in other containers and components of the system. Not all of the possible instrumentation is shown in the figures. For example the pneumatic conveyor if required may be provided with at least one pressure difference sensor the information from which can be used to control the operation of the apparatus.

The present invention may also be carried out as a batch process where the reject fraction is not immediately returned to the system using the conveyor but fed into a container of reject material. Such a system is not described in detail but its construction and use will be readily apparent to those of skilled in the art.

The apparatus can be automated by transferring information received from the various sensors e.g. the pressure difference sensors the load cells and the valves as well as information regarding the speed of rotation and the loads of the motors to a control unit and by applying appropriate control logic and control circuits in a manner known to a person skilled in the art. Control of the compaction force of the compacting device e.g. roller compactor is particularly useful as granule structure as well as the proportion of fine particles and or small granules is significantly affected by the compaction force used. The compaction force depends on a number of parameters such as the rotating speed of the rolls and the feed rate of the powder substance. For example the higher the feed rate of the powder substance for a given roller rotation rate the higher the compaction force will be.

The material of the conveyor may be e.g. PVC e.g. FDA PVC. Various components of the system may be connected together with electric wires for grounding purposes. Suitably the entire system is grounded.

In the roller compactor compacts the mass containing raw material and optionally particles recycled from the fractionating device into a ribbon using rolls that apply mechanical force to the mass to be compacted. Depending on the compaction force applied to the mass and the thickness of the ribbon the amount of mass that gets compacted into granules varies. The remaining mass may remain small granules and or fine particles example in the middle of the ribbon. The small granules and or fine particles may not be capable of forming acceptable granules alone. However the presence of such mass may have a positively contributing role in forming of acceptable granules in the fractionating and or conveying steps of the process e.g. through triboelectrification and electrostatic forces. Depending on the feed material and compacting parameters such as thickness of the ribbon the proportion of fine particles and or small granules may vary.

A convenient way to adjust operating parameters of the system is to set the compaction force of the roller compactor to the minimum that produces at least some granules and set the rotating speed see the description related to of the fractionating device to the maximum available e.g. about 100 RPM in the device of make ROTAB Donsmark Process Technology A S Copenhagen Denmark and model 400EC 200 and then adjust the carrier gas flow rate so that acceptable granules with desired flow characteristics start flowing out the system. Too little gas flow in the fractionating device causes the proportion of fine particles and or small granules to increase in the mass of accepted granules whereas use of too high a gas flow causes a large proportion of acceptable granules to be unnecessarily re processed. Setup of the optimal gas flow may be done manually or automatically for example using real time measurement of flow of accepted granules and characteristics of those granules. One such measurement arrangement is shown in .

When the mass is compacted the proportion of granules of acceptable size increases slightly as shown in image but the majority approximately 73 of particles are still smaller than 106 m. Image shows that after fractionation the proportion of granules larger than 106 m increases significantly. The accepted fraction still contains about 10 of small granules and or fine particles smaller than 106 m. Despite the relatively large proportion of small granules and or fine particles the mass exhibits excellent flowability. The total proportion of granules accepted from the compacted mass in the fractionating step was approximately 10 . Thus approximately 90 of the mass was rejected by the fractionating device.

The powder leaving the compacting device falls through a charge connection into the feed end of the cylinder and is transported by the spiral towards an outlet tube . The carrier gas flowing through the outlet moves in the opposite direction to the accepted granules . Acceptable granules pass along in the cylinder and fall through the outlet to a product container not shown by effect of gravitation. Unacceptable fine particles and or small granules that may be accompanying the acceptable granules to the tube are generally conveyed back from the tube to the cylinder by the gas stream . In the present device the outlet is a downward pointing tube whose length is 70 mm and diameter is 40 mm. The rejected fraction of fine particles and or small granules together with the carrier gas stream flows to the feeding conveyor see in through connection for reprocessing. The granules may grow in size in the fractionating device or in . This agglomeration may be caused e.g. by triboelectrification and electrostatic forces.

The properties of the accepted fraction may be influenced e.g. by changing the rotation speed of the cylinder the angle of inclination of the cylinder the pitch of the spiral and the size number and location and the shape of the apertures in the cylinder as well as by varying the flow rate of the carrier gas.

In the shown embodiment the rotating device is a cylinder of diameter of 190 mm and length of 516 mm and comprises apertures each having a diameter of 1.5 mm and the apertures reside on average 6 mm from each other. The air stream that enters the fractionating device through aperture is further led out of the fractioning chamber for reprocessing through an aperture in of 50 mm in diameter. Inside the cylinder there is a screw shaped guiding structure that advances 80 mm per revolution towards the aperture of accepted material . The height of the guiding structure is 25 millimeters. shows a drawing of an exemplary perforated stainless steel sheet that may be used to build a suitable cylinder. The thickness of the sheet is about 0.8 mm. The ROTAB device described above has been modified by changing the cylinder to one assembled from the steel sheet of and the fractionating chamber has been changed to one having the shape similar to one shown in of .

Although the devices shown in and are open ended and cylinder shaped and the movement involved is a rotating movement conveyor devices of other shapes and utilizing other kinds of movements may also be used to convey the mass in the fractionating air stream.

The device may optionally be adapted to improve its continuous processing capabilities. One such adaptation is disclosed in where a dual filter assembly is illustrated. The majority of fine particles and or small granules is separated from carrier gas e.g. air in cyclone see also in or but some fine particles and or small granules may be sucked out of the cyclone with the carrier gas. Those particles may need to be filtered out before the carrier gas leaves the system. The filters collect the fine particles and or small granules until the filter is cleaned. One filter may be active while the other is being cleaned e.g. by vibrating it. The valves may be used for guiding the gas flow through the active filter and for isolating the filter being cleaned from the gas stream. The powder resulting from the filter cleaning falls below the filter and further to a tube when the valve respectively is opened. In the other end of the tube there may be a lower valve that is opened after the upper valve has been closed. Opening the lower valve causes the powder to fall back into the circulation for re processing. This arrangement makes it possible to clean one of the filters while the apparatus is operational and the cleaning operation doesn t result in undesirable pressure shocks of carrier gas in the apparatus.

The apparatus may also optionally be equipped for example with sensors that measure the size of accepted granules in real time. Such an arrangement is shown in . Accepted granules leave the fractionating device through tube . Light emitting devices as well as light sensitive sensors have been installed in the tube to observe the size of the passing accepted granules. Based on the information created by the sensors the control logic of the system may adjust the operating parameters of the apparatus. One such adjustable parameter may be for example the size of granules produced by the flake crushing screen . Another such adjustable parameter may be the gas flow rate of the system.

Granulation systems each produce granules from different substances or from the same substance but with different granulation parameters such as compaction force or size of accepted granules . Each system has its own means of adjusting the granulation parameters. The accepted granules from each granulation system are led through a conveyor to a granule mixing device that has means to control the amount of each of the granules in the final mix. The mixing device may also have granule mixing means to mix the granules together before the granulate mass flows to the container of final product or directly to a tableting machine not shown . The conveyor in is a tube that leads to the mixing device but the conveyor may also lead the granules into an intermediary storage container from which the mass may conveyed to the mixing device.

The device for determining sufficient flowability has a smooth plastic surface cone with a height of 45 millimeters and with cone angle of approximately 59 degrees and a round aperture whose diameter is 12 millimeters. The length of tube is 23 mm. In a flowability test procedure the cone is filled with powder or granulate mass while the round aperture is kept closed. The aperture is opened cone is knocked lightly to start the flow and the flow of the powder through the aperture by mere gravitation force is observed. Additional shaking or other kind of movement of the cone during the test is not allowed. The material passes the flowability test if the cone substantially empties. Substantial here means that at least 85 90 or 95 of the powder leaves the cone.

The device for determining good flowability using the test procedure explained above has a smooth glass surface cone with a height of 50 millimeters and with cone diameter of 70 mm and a round aperture whose diameter is 7 millimeters. The length of tube is 70 mm.

The device for determining very good flowability has a smooth plastic surface cone with a height of 35 millimeters and with cone diameter of 48 mm and a round aperture whose diameter is 4 millimeters. The length of tube is 50 mm.

The device for determining excellent flowability has a smooth plastic surface cone with a height of 40 millimeters and with cone diameter of 55 mm and a round aperture whose diameter is 3 millimeters. The length of tube is 60 mm.

Using the above mentioned or other embodiments of the present invention it is possible to produce granules that have one or multiple of some desirable general characteristics e.g. good flowability good compressibility good tabletability quick disintegration time of a tablet and high drug load. We have observed that those characteristics are applicable to many APIs and excipients. Thus some potentially time consuming and expensive parts of the drug formulation design process of prior art may be avoided with many APIs. The embodiments shown are also relatively cost efficient to build and use. For example it is possible to build an arrangement that is capable of producing several kilograms or tens of kilograms of granules per hour. The process is also relatively simple and easy to control in comparison to e.g. wet granulation methods of prior art. In the shown embodiments there are few parameters that may need to be adjusted.

The examples below describe characteristics of some typical granules and tablets achievable using the embodiments of the present invention.

To observe the characteristics of the granulate mass of various embodiments of the invention and their tabletability a series of tests has been conducted. In all tests method and apparatus described in this document e.g. and has been used. The gas flow rate of the apparatus was adjusted so that the fractionating effect of the gas flow resulted in a granulate mass that had good very good or excellent flowability. The gas flow rate in the tests was achieved operating the suction fan BUSCH Mink MM 1202 AV of the system at a default speed of approximately 1860 RPM. With some materials the speed was altered from the default to achieve desired quality of the granulate mass. The compaction force of the roller compactor was adjusted to produce granules with optimal tableting characteristics. The force used was recorded as kilonewtons as indicated by the roller compactor HOSOKAWA Bepex Pharmapaktor L200 50P used in the tests. The diameter of the rolls of the compactor is 200 mm and the working width of the rolls is 50 mm. The thickness of the ribbon produced by the compactor is about 4 mm. The rotating speed of the rolls is typically between 10 and 12 RPM. The exact rotating speed is adjusted by the roller compactor to achieve the desired compaction force. The default mesh size of the flake crushing screen is 1.00 mm. In some experiments the mesh size of the flake crushing screen was altered from the default.

Unless specified differently a rotating device as shown in operating at about 100 RPM was used as the fractionating means of the apparatus of the tests. The default size of apertures in the cylinder of the rotating means was 1.5 mm.

In all tableting tests 0.25 of magnesium stearate was added to the granulate mass prior to tableting as a lubricant.

The tensile strength of the tablets has been measured using a measuring device of make MECMESIN Mecmesin Limited West Sussex UK and model BFG200N.

The particle size distribution of granulate mass was measured using stack of sieves. In the measurements the stack of four sieves was shaken for 5 minutes using an Electromagnetic Sieve Shaker manufacturer C.I.S.A Cedaceria Industrial S.L model RP 08 with power setting 6. The opening sizes of the sieves used were 850 m 500 m 250 m and 106 m.

A powder mass of 5.0 kg having 90 of acebutolol HCl powder mean particle size 27 micrometers and 10 of starch was mixed. Compaction force of 40 kN was used to compact mass into granules having mean size of 877 micrometers and standard deviation of 1.421 after fractionation. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.68 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round tablets of 10 mm diameter and 500 mg of weight were created using tableting force of 6 8 kN. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 80N N 10 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be about 6.5 minutes in water of approximately body temperature.

A powder mass having 20 2.24 kg of Fluoxetine HCl Manufacturer SIFAVITOR SpA Casaletto Lodigiano. Italy. Batch no. 2700 01 06 64 7.168 kg of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 batch 5S3682 and 16 . 1.792 kg of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 35 kN was used to compact mass into granules having mean size of 461 micrometers and standard deviation of 2.358 after fractionation. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.25 mm. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.595 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round tablets of 6 mm diameter and 112 mg of average weight N 10 standard deviation 1.89 were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 44 N N 10 standard deviation 11.17 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be about 10 seconds in water of approximately body temperature.

A powder mass of approximately 4.0 kg having 60 of paracetamol fine powder Manufacturer Mallinckrodt Inc. Raleigh USA Batch 7845906C563 59 of particles smaller than 20 micrometers 96 of particles smaller than 75 micrometers 20 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 batch 5S3689 50 of particles smaller than 71 micrometers and 20 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 30 kN was used to compact the mass into granules having mean size of 645 micrometers and standard deviation of 1.464 after fractionation. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.00 mm. The bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.586 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round convex tablets of 10 mm diameter and 454 mg of average weight N 10 standard deviation 0.6 were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. This was a very good result since hitherto it has been considered difficult if not impossible to produce high load tablets of paracetamol by compression of granulates prepared using dry granulation methods. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 49 N N 10 standard deviation 12.73 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be less than a minute in water of approximately body temperature.

A powder mass of 5.56 kg having 90 of Sodium valproate Manufacturer Chemische Fabrik Berg 5 of hypromellose PHARMACOAT 606 batch 5115055 and 5 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 35 kN was used to compact mass into granules having mean size of 550 micrometers and standard deviation of 1.686. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.25 mm. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.532 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round convex tablets of 12 mm diameter and 560 mg of average weight N 10 standard deviation 1.29 were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 84 N N 10 standard deviation 11.80 . Because of the slow release characteristics introduced by hypromellose as excipient tablet disintegration time was observed to be 40 minutes in water of approximately body temperature.

A powder mass of approximately 8.0 kg having 50 of ketoprofen Manufacturer Ketoprofen S.I.M.S. Societa italiana medicinali Scandicci batch 121.087 79 or particles smaller than 60 micrometers and 50 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch SB4944 was mixed. Compaction force of 40 kN was used to compact the mass into granules having mean size of 900 micrometers and standard deviation of 1.418. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.00 mm. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.625 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round convex tablets of 6 mm diameter and 94 mg of average weight N 10 standard deviation 1.94 were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 39 N N 10 standard deviation 14.56 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be about 10 seconds in water of approximately body temperature.

Approximately 4.0 kg of powder mass having 100 of metformin HCl Supplier SIMS trading Firenze Italy batch 21.039 was compacted using compaction force of 35 kN to produce granules having mean size of 668 micrometers and standard deviation of 1.554. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.00 mm. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.694 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Separately excipient granules containing 70 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 batch 5S3689 and 30 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed and granulated using the same compaction force. Then 80 of metformin granules were mixed with 20 of excipient granules and compressed into tablets. Round convex tablets of 12 mm diameter and containing 500 mg of metformin were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 59 N N 3 . Tablet disintegration time was not measured.

In addition to tableting examples compressibility and flowability of granulate mass of embodiments of the invention was tested by measuring the Hausner ratio of the mass and observing the flowability of the mass. Methods usable for calculating Hausner ratio and observing flowability of the mass have been described earlier in this disclosure.

A powder mass of 4.0 kg having 100 paracetamol Manufacturer Mallinckrodt Inc. Raleigh USA Batch 6088906C107 was compacted using compaction force of 12 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm into granules having mean size of 708 micrometers and standard deviation of 1.349 after fractionation. 0.58 of the granules of the mass had diameter of smaller than 106 micrometers. The bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.610 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.758 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was calculated to be 1.24. Despite the relatively high compressibility as indicated by the Hausner ratio the flowability of the mass was observed to be excellent.

A powder mass having 90 4.0 kg of Metformin METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE USP BATCH N. 17003742 USV LIMITED B.S.D. Marg. Govandi Mumbay 400 088 INDIA 8 356 g of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3682 and 2 88g of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 30 kN flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm and suction fan speed of 2100 RPM was used to produce granules having mean size of 477 micrometers and standard deviation of 2.030 after fractionation. 11.0 of the granules of the mass had diameter of smaller than 106 micrometers. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.581 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.714 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.23. Despite the relatively high compressibility as indicated by the Hausner ratio the flowability of the mass was observed to be excellent. When experimenting with metformin the inventors have also made a surprising observation that although 100 metformin fine powder exhibits heavy agglomeration forming large hard agglomerates when stored in room temperature and ambient humidity 100 metformin granules made of such powder using a method of the invention show practically no such agglomeration during storage time.

A powder mass of approximately 3.0 kg containing 70 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3689 and 30 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 16 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm was used to produce granules having mean size of 318 micrometers and standard deviation of 2.159 after fractionation. 19.6 of the granules of the mass had diameter of smaller than 106 micrometers. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.379 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.510 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.35. Despite the high compressibility of the mass as indicated by the Hausner ratio the flowability was observed to be excellent.

A powder mass of approximately 4.0 kg containing 20 of ketoprofen S.I.M.S. Societa italiana medicinali Scandicci batch 121.087 and 80 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3689 was mixed. Compaction force of 24 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 0.71 mm was used to produce granules. When the suction fan speed of the system was set at 1980 RPM the mean size of the accepted granules was 304 micrometers and standard deviation was 2.275 after fractionation. 23.0 of the mass had particle size smaller than 106 micrometers. The loose bulk density of the mass was 0.510 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.676 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.325. The flowability of the mass was observed to be sufficient. When the suction fan speed of the system was set at 2400 RPM the mean size of the accepted granules was 357 micrometers and standard deviation was 2.121 after fractionation. 13.7 of the mass had particle size smaller than 106 micrometers. The loose bulk density of the mass was 0.521 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.714 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.371. The flowability of the mass was observed to be excellent. This example shows that by varying the gas flow rate of the system granulate mass with different flow characteristics may be obtained. This example also indicates that contrary to what is taught in prior art e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 752 939 the Hausner ratio doesn t necessarily predict the flowability of the granulate mass. For example the granule size distribution of the granular mass may have greater effect on flowability than the compressibility of the granulate mass. Good compressibility and flowability may thus co exist in the same granulate mass.

The embodiments described in this disclosure are capable of producing significant amounts of granulate mass. In a capacity test of one embodiment comprising the fractionating device of 5.98 kg of Paracetamol 7845 Paracetamol Fine Powder Mallinckrodt Inc. Raleigh USA Batch 7845906C563 10.69 kg of Microcrystalline Cellulose CAS no. 9004 34 6 JRS PHARMA LP Patterson USA Batch 5S3689 37.10 kg of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. n. 03401 Batch 01015757 12.19 kg of lactose LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE DMV International Pharmatose 80M DP5500 Batch 10209285 906535704 34.04 kg of cellulose Technocel CFF GmbH Gehren Germany Batch G13060620 were mixed and granulated using compaction force of ca. 40 kN and suction fan speed of 2160 RPM. The apparatus was running for two hours and 38 minutes producing 94.66 kg of granules which had at least good flowability characteristics.

A powder mass of approximately 5.0 kg containing 50 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3689 and 50 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed and granulated. Reprocessing of the rejected fraction was prevented in the granulation process. To achieve this the mass to be processed was manually fed to the intermediate vessel in from where it was conveyed to the compactor in by opening the valve in before starting the process. The process was then started and the mass of 5.0 kg was granulated and fractionated. During the processing the valve in was kept shut to prevent re processing of the rejected fraction. Compaction force of 40 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm was used to produce granules having mean size of 523 micrometers standard deviation 1.70 after fractionation. The test run produced 1630 g 32.6 of accepted granules. A SEM image of the surface of an accepted granule is shown in image of . The rest of the mass was rejected by the fractionating device. 4.0 of the granules particles of the accepted mass had diameter of smaller than 106 micrometers. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.56 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.641 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.15. The flowability of the accepted fraction was observed to be excellent. On the other hand the flowability of the rejected fraction was observed to be insufficient.

The rejected fraction contained 16.4 of granules larger than 250 micrometers whereas the accepted fraction contained 92 of granules larger than 250 micrometers.

To observe the tabletability of the accepted fraction of the granulate mass 0.5 of magnesium stearate was added to the mass and tablets of average weight of 588 mg were produced. The average tensile strength of the tablet N 6 was measured to be 23 56N and standard deviation was 1 308. The disintegration time of the tablet was observed to be about 12 seconds.

A powder mass of approximately 4.0 kg containing 50 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3689 and 50 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed and granulated. Unlike in the above examples a fractionating device according to the embodiments of and of this disclosure was used in the fractionating step of the process. Reprocessing of the rejected fraction was prevented in the granulation process. To achieve this the mass to be processed was manually fed to the intermediate vessel in from where it was conveyed to the compactor in by opening the valve in before starting the process. The process was then started and the mass of 4 kg was granulated and fractionated. During the processing the valve in was kept shut to prevent re processing of the rejected fraction. Compaction force of 16 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm was used to produce granules having mean size of 437 micrometers standard deviation 2.42 after fractionation. The test run produced 670 g 16.75 of accepted granules. The rest of the mass was rejected by the fractionating device. 20.9 of the granules particles of the accepted mass had diameter of smaller than 106 micrometers. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.455 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.568 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.248. Despite the high compressibility of the accepted mass as indicated by the Hausner ratio the flowability was observed to be excellent. On the other hand the flowability of the rejected fraction was observed to be insufficient.

The rejected fraction contained 7.1 of granules larger than 250 micrometers whereas the accepted fraction contained 68.4 of granules larger than 250 micrometers.

To observe the tabletability of the accepted fraction of the granulate mass 0.5 of magnesium stearate was added to the mass and tablets of average weight of 584 mg were produced. The average tensile strength of the tablet was measured to be 63 34N and standard deviation was 6 78 N 6 . It is noteworthy that the tensile strength of the tablet is significantly higher than in fractionating example 1. The disintegration time of the tablet was observed to be about 12 seconds.

To a person skilled in the art the foregoing exemplary embodiments illustrate the model presented in this application whereby it is possible to design different methods systems granules and tablets which in obvious ways utilize the inventive idea presented in this application.

