---

title: Digital rights management dongle
abstract: A dongle for digital rights management protection, in accordance with one embodiment of the present technology, includes a digital right management engine and an encryption/decryption engine. The digital rights management engine is adapted to port digital rights management rules of a source of content to digital rights management rules enforced by the digital rights management engine. The encryption/decryption engine is adapted to re-encrypting the source of content into a managed copy of the content, wherein the managed copy of the content is locked to the dongle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08296240&OS=08296240&RS=08296240
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08296240
owner_city: Parkridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070322
---
Computing devices have made significant contributions toward the advancement of modem society and are utilized in a number of applications to achieve advantageous results. Numerous devices such as TVs DVD players game consoles computers and the like have facilitated increased consumption of content in most areas of entertainment education business and science. Computing devices have also made it faster easier and cheaper to access content of all types in digital form. The convenience of having content more readily accessible typically results in users accessing content more often and may also result in users acquiring ever increasing amounts of content.

However computing devices also make it easier faster and cheaper to pirate digital media. Furthermore unlike content on physical media such as paper and media in analog format digital media may be exactly reproduced multiple times without degradation. To continue to make content more accessible and encourage greater use and consumption protective schemes are employed against piracy of digital content while maintaining the accessibility of the content. Conventional protective schemes have included software based encryption and or tamper resistant hardware. The conventional protective schemes have also been specific to a particular platform. In addition the conventional protective schemes are vulnerable to attack. For example the software implementations can be bypassed the encryption keys have been found in the clear or even hidden in the device s memory and the like. Therefore there is a continuing need for improved digital rights management schemes.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed toward digital rights management protection techniques locked to an encryption decryption dongle. In one embodiment a method of enforcing digital rights management includes receiving source encrypted content on an input device e.g. DVD drive of a computing device. The source encrypted content is transferred from the computing device to a dongle. The dongle translates a set of DRM rules associated with the source encrypted content to a set of rules associated with the dongle. The dongle also re encrypts the source encrypted content into a managed copy of the content locked to the dongle. The managed copy of the content may then be transferred from the dongle to the computing device for storage locally on the computing device. The method may also include transferring the managed copy from the computing device back to the dongle. The dongle re encrypts the managed copy of the content into a rendering copy of the content locked to a video card of the computing device. The rendering copy of the content may then be transferred from the dongle to the video card for rendering on a monitor.

In another embodiment a method of enforcing digital rights management includes receiving source encrypted content on an input device e.g. DVD drive of a computing device. The source encrypted content is transferred from the computing device to a dongle. The dongle translates a set of DRM rules associated with the source encrypted content to a set of rules associated with the dongle. The dongle also re encrypts the source encrypted content into a rendering copy of the content locked to a video card of the computing device. The rendering copy of the content may then be transferred from the dongle to the video card for rendering on a monitor.

In yet another embodiment a dongle is adapted to be communicatively coupled to a personal computer laptop computer game console home entertainment system hand held gaming unit digital video recorder personal digital assistant PDA cell phone portable audio player e.g. MP3 players server computer client computer minicomputer mainframe computer distributed computer system and the like. The dongle includes a digital right management engine and an encryption decryption engine. The digital rights management engine is adapted to port digital rights management rules associated with a source of content to digital rights management rules enforced by the digital rights management engine. The encryption decryption engine is adapted to re encrypting the source encrypted content into a managed copy of the content. Accordingly the managed copy of the content is locked to the encryption decryption engine.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present technology examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the present technology will be described in conjunction with these embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the following detailed description of the present technology numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present technology. However it is understood that the present technology may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the present technology.

Referring to an exemplary computing device for implementing embodiments of the present technology is shown. The computing device may be a personal computer laptop computer game console home entertainment system hand held gaming unit digital video recorder personal digital assistant PDA cell phone portable audio player e.g. MP3 players server computer client computer minicomputer mainframe computer distributed computer system or the like. The computing device includes one or more processors e.g. CPU one or more computing device readable media and one or more input output I O devices . The I O devices may include a video card and or graphics processing unit GPU a monitor a network adapter e.g. Ethernet card a keyboard a pointing device a CD drive a game controller e.g. joystick a DVD drive and or the like.

The computing device readable media and I O devices may be communicatively coupled to the processor by a chip set and one or more busses. The chipset acts as a simple input output hub for communicating data and instructions between the processor the computing device readable media and I O devices .

The computing device readable media may include secondary memory such as a magnetic and or optical storage that provides for non volatile storage of

computing device executable instructions and data for use by the computing device . For instance a hard disk drive may store the operating system OS one or more applications and associated data. The computing device readable media may also include primary memory such as the system memory and or graphics memory which provides for volatile storage of computing device executable instructions and data for use by the computing device . For instance the random access memory RAM may temporarily store a portion of the operating system a portion of one or more applications and associated data that are currently used by the CPU GPU and the like.

The computing device may also include a dongle which is a secure local re encryption engine. The dongle includes a signed digital certificate verifying its security. The dongle may be removably coupleable e.g. external peripheral device to the computing device . For instance the dongle may be a small form factor peripheral that can be readily coupled to and uncoupled from a universal serial USB port a FireWire port or the like. The use of USB or FireWire advantageously provides power from the computing device for operation of the dongle . In another implementation the dongle may be integrally coupled to the computing device . For instance the dongle may be an internal peripheral device or an integrated circuit within the chipset .

Referring now to a dongle in accordance with one embodiment of the present technology is shown. The dongle includes an interface controller a digital rights management engine an encryption decryption engine and dongle memory . The dongle memory is computing device readable media and is not accessible outside of the dongle .

The interface controller is adapted to receive source encrypted content from the computing device and send a managed copy and or rendering copy to the computing device . The digital rights management DRM engine is adapted to port the DRM rules of the source content to the DRM rules enforced by the DRM engine so that the managed copy of the content is locked to the encryption decryption engine of the given dongle. The DRM engine in combination with the interface controller may also be adapted to establish a secure communication channel. The establishing the secure communication channel may include sending and or receiving authentication certificates session keys or the like. In one implementation the interface may be a USB. In such case the interface controller would have a standard application programming interface API for creating the secure communication channel that included exchanging certificates and negotiating session keys. However while the communication channel is maintained via software neither the keys nor the content is available in the clear.

The encryption decryption engine is adapted to decrypt the source encrypted content and re encrypt the content into the managed copy. The dongle memory is adapted to store one or more encryption keys authentication certificates and the like for use by the digital rights management engine and or the encryption decryption engine . The dongle memory is also adapted to store the source content the managed copy of the content and any content in the clear during processing by the encryption decryption engine .

Operation of the computing device in combination with the dongle will be further described herein with reference to and . and show a method of digital rights management in accordance with one embodiment of the present technology. Referring now to the method begins with receiving content by a computing device at . As shown in the content may be received on the DVD drive of the computing device . However the example illustrated in is not intended to limit the device or peripheral that the content is received on or the source of the content. The content may be downloaded e.g. an electronic file transfer received on a computing device readable media e.g. DVD CD or the like or by any other similar means. The content may be music movies pictures documents data software and or the like. When the content includes source encrypted content the content is sent to the dongle at . The source encrypted content may also include or have associated with it a set of DRM rules that govern the use of the content and metadata describing the content. The metadata is also used to manipulate the content. For example the metadata may specify the start of chapters and or section in a movie and can be used to start playback at a particular chapter or section.

At the dongle receives the source encrypted content from the computing device . For instance a DVD may be inserted into the DVD drive of the computer . The source encrypted content is transferred from the DVD to the dongle In one implementation the source encrypted content is transferred across a secure communication channel negotiated between the input device e.g. DVD drive and the dongle .

The DRM engine of the dongle translates the DRM rules associated with the source encrypted content into DRM rules associated with the dongle at . The DRM rules associated with the dongle enforce the protection policies specified in the DRM rules associated with the source encrypted content . The encryption decryption engine re encrypts the source encrypted content into a managed copy of the content at . In particular the encryption decryption engine decrypts the source encrypted content into a clear copy of the content. The encryption decryption engine then encrypts the clear copy of the content into a dongle encrypted content which is also referred herein to as the managed copy. The dongle memory may he utilized to store the source encrypted content the content in the clear between decryption and encryption and or the managed copy of the content. However the dongle memory is not accessible from outside the dongle and therefore the content is not available in the clear outside the dongle .

Referring now to the managed copy is sent by the dongle to the computing device at . The managed copy may include or have associated with it the dongle DRM rules for protecting the given managed copy of the content and the metadata describing the content. At the managed copy is received by a controller of the computing device readable media from the dongle . At the managed copy as illustrated in may be stored in one or more computer readable media of the computing device . For instance the managed copy may be stored on the hard disk drive of the computing device . In one implementation the managed copy of the content is transferred across a secure communication channel negotiated between the dongle and a computing device readable media of the computing device .

Accordingly the source encrypted content is locked to the source media and the managed copy is locked to the dongle . The managed copy of the content can be stored locally on the computing device . However the managed copy of the content is protected because it can only be decrypted by the dongle . The metadata is maintained in the clear and can be used to manipulate the content whether the content is source encrypted content a managed copy of the content or a rendering copy of the content.

The method may also include the computing device sending the managed copy of the content to the dongle at . At the dongle receives the managed copy from the computing device. For instance the managed copy of the content stored locally on the hard disk drive may be transferred back to the dongle . In one implementation the managed copy is transferred across a secure communication channel negotiated between the computing device and the dongle .

Referring now to the DRM engine enforces the protection policies specified in the DRM rules associated with the managed copy at . At the encryption decryption engine re encrypts the managed copy of the content into a rendering copy of the content in accordance with enforcement of the DRM rules. In particular the encryption decryption engine decrypts the managed copy which is the dongle encrypted copy of the content into a clear copy of the content. The encryption decryption engine then encrypts the clear copy of the content into the rendering encrypted content. For instance the encryption decryption engine may encrypt the clear copy of the content using the public key of the video card GPU or the like. The dongle memory may be utilized to store the managed copy the clear copy and or the rendering copy of the content between decryption and encryption. However as previously noted the dongle memory is not accessible from outside the dongle and therefore the content is not available in the clear outside the dongle . Accordingly the rendering copy of the content is locked to the video card GPU or the like of the computing device .

At the rendering copy is sent by the dongle to the computing device . At the rendering copy is received by the computing device from the dongle . At the rendering copy may be used by the video card GPU or the like to render the content on the monitor or the like including decrypting the rendering content. In one implementation the rendering copy of the content is transferred across a secure communication channel negotiated between the dongle and the video card GPU or the like of the computing device .

Referring again to the method may further include receiving content by the computing device at . When the content includes source encrypted content the content is sent to the dongle at . At the dongle receives the source encrypted content from the computing device . The DRM engine of the dongle translates the DRM rules associated with the source encrypted content into DRM rules associated with the dongle at . Referring now to FIG. the encryption decryption engine re encrypts the source encrypted content into a

rendering copy of the content at . In particular the encryption decryption engine decrypts the source encrypted content into a clear copy of the content. The encryption decryption engine then encrypts the clear copy of the content into a rendering encrypted copy of the content. For instance the encryption decryption engine may encrypt the clear copy of the content using the public key of the video card GPU or the like. The dongle memory may be utilized to store the source encrypted content the content in the clear between decryption and encryption and the rendering copy of the content. However the dongle memory is not accessible from outside the dongle and therefore the content is not available in the clear outside the dongle .

At the rendering copy is sent by the dongle to the computing device . At the rendering copy is received by the computing device from the dongle . At the rendering copy may be used by the video card GPU or the like to render the content on the monitor or the like perhaps sending the rendered content to the monitor over a secure link such as HDMI. In one implementation the rendering copy of the content is transferred across a secure communication channel negotiated between the dongle and the video card GPU or the like.

Accordingly the dongle advantageously encrypts content for storage local to a computing device as a managed copy and or for rendering by the computing device. Only the encryption decryption dongle can decrypt the managed copy. In addition digital rights management DRM protection utilizing the encryption decryption dongle is operating system OS independent and therefore can advantageously be applied on Open Source platforms Linux platforms MAC OS platforms Windows Vista platforms and the like. In addition the content is locked to the dongle rather than the CPU hard disk drive motherboard or the like. Accordingly if the CPU hard disk drive motherboard or the like is replaced e.g. upgraded the content can still be available via the dongle

The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present technology have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present technology and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present technology and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

