---

title: Reactive material initiator for explosive-filled munitions
abstract: An initiator is provided for a munitions device that is intended to strike a target substantially along a trajectory direction and contains an explosive within a case. The initiator includes a sleeve, first and second anvils and an initiation pellet disposed between the anvils. The sleeve is disposed within the case and adjacent to the explosive, and defines an initiator interior aligned substantially parallel to the trajectory direction. The sleeve includes one or more orifices that extend therethrough between the explosive and the interior, the orifices being disposed adjacent to the pellet. The pellet is composed of a reactive material that chemically responds as a non-explosive to kinetic and thermal stimuli. The first anvil is disposed transverse to the interior and forward of the pellet, while the second anvil is disposed within the interior behind of the pellet, wherein the second anvil translates towards the first anvil substantially along the trajectory direction in response to the device striking the target. The pellet discharges particles through the orifices, the particles being directed into the explosive in response to the second anvil translating towards the first anvil. The sleeve can be disposed within the explosive. The reactive material can be a solid or powdered mixture of powdered aluminum and polytetrafluoroethylene or other fluoropolymer, or alternatively a thermite mixture of powdered metal and metal oxide and may include added polytetrafluoroethylene or other fluoropolymer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07587978&OS=07587978&RS=07587978
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07587978
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to initiation devices for explosives. In particular the invention relates to an initiator using reactive materials to reduce shock and thermal sensitivity for improved safety.

The United States Department of Defense DoD has sought to transition to an insensitive munitions IM inventory of weapons since 1999. In particular IM compliant warheads and rocket motor are intended to diminish sensitivity to shock and or to reduce reaction intensity in response to thermal cook off. This enables assigning such munitions to a lower hazard classification thereby mitigating costs for storage transportation and handling logistics.

Conventional initiators for DoD weapons contain primary explosives. These chemicals include lead azide PbN lead styphnate CHNOPb and diazodnitrophenol DDNP CHNO . Such highly reactive chemicals are typically very sensitive to un commanded shock and thermal initiation making them potential safety hazards and are not compliant with the current Insensitive Munitions strategy. The United States Department of Transportation DoT lists such substances as Class 1.1A Explosives under 49 CFR 172.101 in the Hazardous Materials Table.

Conventional initiators yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an initiator that incorporates reactive materials rather than explosive materials. Other various embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for concatenated initiators of such configuration.

Various exemplary embodiments provide an initiator for a munitions device intended to strike a target substantially along a trajectory direction. The device contains an explosive within a case. The initiator includes a sleeve first and second anvils and an initiation pellet disposed between the anvils. The sleeve is disposed within the case and adjacent to the explosive and defines an initiator interior aligned substantially parallel to the trajectory direction. The sleeve includes one or more orifices that extend therethrough between the explosive and the interior the orifices being disposed adjacent to the pellet. The pellet is composed of a reactive material that chemically responds as a non explosive to kinetic and thermal stimuli.

The first anvil is disposed transverse to the interior and forward of the pellet while the second anvil is disposed within the interior behind of the pellet wherein the second anvil translates towards the first anvil substantially along the trajectory direction in response to the device striking the target. The pellet discharges particles through the orifices the particles being directed into the explosive in response to the second anvil translating towards the first anvil. The sleeve may be disposed within the explosive. In various exemplary embodiments the reactive material may be a solid or powdered mixture of powdered aluminum and polytetrafluoroethylene or other fluoropolymers or alternatively a thermite mixture of powdered metal and metal oxide and may include polytetrafluroethylene or other fluoropolymers .

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The embodiments described herein employ a reactive material rather than an explosive material. A reactive material represents a flammable substance that exothermally reacts by burning in response to a kinetic or thermal stimulus that exceeds the high threshold to initiate chemical response. By contrast an explosive material combusts rapidly i.e. by explosion or deflagration in response to comparatively low threshold of received energy.

Exemplary embodiments provide an initiator that includes a disk of solid reactive material with a metal disk on either longitudinal side attached to each face of the reactive material as shown in as an axi symmetric elevation cross section. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the cylindrical configuration as depicted is exemplary only and not limiting. The metal disks represent a hammer and an anvil respectively between which the reactive disk may be disposed.

This reactive material may incorporate for example a solid mixture of powdered aluminum and polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE also known as Teflon . The reactive material may instead or additionally incorporate other fluoropolymers besides PTFE. Such materials are classified as flammable solids rather than explosives and thus involve less stringent handling requirements. Alternatively other reactive materials may be used such as a metal and metal oxide thermite mixture that may include added polytetrafluroethylene and or other fluoropolymers.

For low velocity impact of the projectile against a target a powdered mixture of aluminum and PTFE may be used for the reactive material in the initiator because a solid mixture of aluminum and PTFE requires more kinetic energy to initiate. Other exemplary embodiments may include a series of reactive disks separated by metal disks between them. The series may be located along the centerline of the weapon or along an offset to the centerline. Alternatively the initiator may consist of a series of reactive disks and metal anvils arranged parallel to the centerline.

In particular shows a target being approached by a warhead projectile or weapon such as a bomb bullet or missile launched thereagainst. To enhance penetration the projectile includes a hardened nose composed from a structurally rigid material such as steel. Behind i.e. aft of the nose the projectile includes a case containing an initiator and an explosive fill region disposed annularly around the projectile s longitudinal axis or centerline . The initiator and explosive fill may be separated by an axi symmetric sleeve or housing that includes angularly disposed vent holes or orifices . The centerline may be substantially parallel to and preferably co linear with a trajectory direction of the projectile towards the target . The orientation represented for the projectile identifies the lower end adjacent the target as forward and the upper or distal end as aft.

The explosive fill region may be disposed in an annular torus or annulus disposed around the sleeve . The initiator includes a metal disk or anvil and a reactive material disk or initiation pellet along the centerline disposed within the interior of the sleeve . The metal disk may be composed of a substantially rigid metal such as steel. The reactive disk may be confined longitudinally between the nose representing an upstream anvil and the metal disk representing a downstream hammer and also restrained radially by the sleeve .

The sleeve may include a void behind of the metal disk . Alternatively such a void in the sleeve may be forward of the metal disk provided that the latter s translation through the former remains unimpeded. The metal disk may be restrained to avoid translation along the centerline during launch or gun ejection.

Those of ordinary skill will recognize that although an axi symmetric cylindrical disk is depicted alternative solid shapes may be used to be represented by the term disk as provided in the instant disclosure. Alternatively the nose may include an additional metal disk not shown between the nose and the reactive disk thereby enabling the nose to have a less rigid composition. The initiator may be activated to ignite the explosive in the fill region when the projectile violently contacts i.e. striking the target .

Thicknesses of the metal and reactive disks may be tailored to determine the optimum time for initiation namely to tune the initiation time for the selected explosive material for the fill region and its geometry. Typically the reactive disk may possess a shorter axial length i.e. in the longitudinal direction than the metal disk and optionally may also have a slightly smaller radius. Alternatively or in addition the particle size of the aluminum powder may additionally or alternatively be used to tune the initiation sensitivity as laboratory experiments demonstrate significant dependency of the initiation time of the reactive material on the aluminum particle size.

The reactive material initiator may be disposed in the sleeve radially inward of the explosive fill region annularly extending from the sleeve of the projectile . As shown in upon impact with the target having traveled in the trajectory direction the momentum and mechanical energy of the projectile in flight may be converted to compress the reactive disk to deform as flattened disk . Alternatively multiple disks as shown in tandem between corresponding anvils in and discussed subsequently may be employed.

As the compressed disk squeezes reactive material discharges through the vent holes into the explosive fill as hot glowing reactive particles . The kinetic to compressive energy conversion may be attributed to the momentum difference of the nose being interrupted in translation by the target and the metal disk whose inertial motion is impeded substantially less by the reactive disk which has only a small fraction of the target s mass. The relative motion difference between the nose and the metal disk is represented by the directional arrow . The metal disk travels towards the nose along a translation direction corresponding to the trajectory and substantially parallel to the centerline .

The purpose of the metal anvils is to compress the reactive disk therebetween. The resulting energy transfer to the reactive disk and the consequential radial extrusion of reactive material forced through the vent holes applies frictional shear and or compression heating to the reactive particles . These heated reactive particles transfer thermal energy to the explosive material in the fill region beyond its reaction threshold thereby initiating the surrounding explosive material therein to explode in the target s proximity.

Alternatively the metal disk as a steel anvil may be secured at the aft end of the sleeve by a set of discrete shear pins disposed to project radially inward in a plane perpendicular to the centerline distributed with angular separation of e.g. 120 or 90 . In lieu of the pins a frangible obstacle such as a ceramic or metal lip ring could be employed on the interior cylindrical wall surface of the sleeve . As an example the pins or ring can be composed of a shear failure prone metal e.g. Ti 6 Al 4 V alloy. See Reverse Ballistic Impact Study of Shear Plug Formation and Displacement in Ti6Al4V Alloy W. H. Holt et al. v. 73 no. 8 pp. 3753 59 Apr. 15 1993. The pins or ring not shown inhibit longitudinal translation of the metal disk within the sleeve during launch or gun barrel ejection. Upon impact with the target inertial forces of the metal disk shear the pins or shatter the ring for a suitably determined acceleration load for impact. This releases the metal disk to travel longitudinally through the sleeve at high relative speed towards the reactive disk for initiation of the explosive . Such a configuration may enhance handling safety by avoiding contact between the metal disk and the reactive material disk prior to impact with the target .

A shear plate may be disposed forward of the dowel and an annular shim or spacer may be disposed between the shear plate and the reactive material disk . The shear plate may preferably be composed of titanium due to its behavior to produce a shear slug heated by adiabatic shearing upon being struck by the dowel and driven between the shim towards the reactive material disk . The hot shear slug forms a layer of molten metal on its periphery. In this configuration the reactive material disk is protected from accidental initiation during handling due to the high acceleration conditions required to produce the molten metal layer on the shear slug and hence conditions suitable for the reactive material to be ignited. Alternatively an appropriately thick i.e. rigid shear plate may be placed in contact with the reactive material disk . The hot shear slug can thereby be driven into the reactive material.

As mentioned previously an alternative third embodiment for the initiator may include a stack of initiator units disposed in tandem series along a longitudinal array for multipoint initiation as illustrated in . In the multipoint initiation scheme the sleeve may include several layers of reactive material disks may be sandwiched between metal disks . Groups of vent holes disposed longitudinally along the sleeve may be disposed radially adjacent to the reactive disks . All the initiators may activate when the target is struck to ignite the explosive in the fill region at multiple initiation sites corresponding to the vent holes for more homogeneous initiation than with a single initiator .

Alternatively a plurality of sleeves may be disposed within the fill region . Each of these sleeves may include one or more initiator units disposed in tandem series . A single sleeve may preferably be aligned coincident with the centerline but may alternatively be offset therefrom. A plurality of sleeves may be disposed in a preferably symmetrical pattern parallel to and around the centerline . Another alternative includes rectangular cruciform oval or other cross sectional geometries for the sleeve . Yet other alternative geometries may have dimensional or cross sectional non uniformity along the length of projectile for the sleeve in which to contain one or more initiator units .

Advantages from incorporating a warhead initiator using reactive rather than explosive materials include 1 classification as a flammable solid thereby being IM compliant and 2 reduction in logistics costs rendering safer to handle store and transport than conventional initiators.

The plot graphically compares launch velocity in ft sec of the steel disk as the abscissa and the time in sec to initiation as determined by first light observed as the ordinate . The initiation velocity of 531 ft sec represents a threshold line determined by Los Alamos National Laboratory above which direct impact fails to initiate. A first curve based on solid squares shows direct impact results asymptotically approaching the threshold. A second curve based on solid diamonds crosses the threshold reaches into the initiation region on the left.

The initiator may be integrated into the projectile as assembled to exploit advantages derived from the reduced hazard from un commanded initiation as compared to a conventional initiator equipped with explosives. Alternatively the initiator may be stored separately for field assembly with the projectile into the shell as desired.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

