---

title: Hybrid pen mouse user input device
abstract: A novel hybrid pointing device combines elements of both a digital pen and a mouse, to collect the advantages of both types of devices in a single user input device. The hybrid input pointing device includes both a digital pen and a cradle. The cradle has a docking bay in which the digital pen can be docked, with an unobstructed path between the electromagnetic tracking signal receptor and a tracking surface on which the cradle is disposed. The electromagnetic signal receptor is enabled to receive tracking signals reflected off the tracking surface from an electromagnetic signal emitter. Information based on the reflected signal may be communicated to a computing device. A user can thereby use the digital pen in a pen-like user scenario, or dock the digital pen in the mouse-like cradle and use the combined device in a mouse-like user scenario.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07791598&OS=07791598&RS=07791598
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07791598
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070110
---
A variety of different types of computer user input devices have been made for several decades including mice and digital pens. While mice have become ubiquitous digital pens have generally not achieved the same widespread utility. Major challenges have stood in the way of digital pens being more useful including hardware to software interaction hardware implementation and poor user scenarios. The user scenarios in particular have generally been an awkward intersection of pen type usage and mouse type usage.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A novel hybrid pointing device combines elements of both a digital pen and a mouse to collect the advantages of both types of devices in a single user input device. The hybrid input pointing device includes both a digital pen and a cradle. The digital pen includes an electromagnetic signal receptor. The cradle has a docking bay in which the digital pen can be docked. When the digital pen is docked in the cradle it is oriented toward a tracking surface and has an unobstructed path between the electromagnetic tracking signal receptor and the tracking surface. The cradle is enabled to be moved across a tracking surface on which it is disposed. An electromagnetic signal emitter is included in either the digital pen or the cradle and configured such that the electromagnetic signal receptor is enabled to receive tracking signals reflected off the tracking surface from the electromagnetic signal emitter. A communication component is included in either the digital pen or the cradle and enabled to communicate information from the electromagnetic signal receptor to a computing device. A user can thereby use the digital pen in a pen like user scenario or dock the digital pen in the mouse like cradle and use the combined device in a mouse like user scenario.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

Electromagnetic signal receptor may be particularly configured to image a reflection from a coherent electromagnetic beam reflected from the tracking surface such as mousepad such as may arise from a laser emitted by laser emitter for example. For example electromagnetic signal receptor may be configured to image a speckle pattern so that motion can be tracked by changes in speckle intensity or electromagnetic signal receptor may be configured to image an interferometric pattern for laser Doppler velocimetry for example in addition to other potential imaging techniques. Electromagnetic signal receptor may also be configured to image a visible light signal from a portion of a user output display such as a plasma display an LED display a cathode ray tube display and other types of user output monitors. Electromagnetic signal receptor may therefore alternately image either a reflection from a tracking laser or a direct transmission from a display capturing typical functions of both a mouse and a digital pen.

When digital pen is docked in docking bay of cradle as in it is oriented toward mousepad and has an unobstructed path between the electromagnetic signal receptor and the intended position of the mousepad . Cradle is enabled to be translatingly moved across mousepad much as a mouse would be.

While laser emitter is disposed on digital pen in the embodiment of hybrid input device a laser emitter may also be disposed in cradle in other embodiments while still other embodiments may include other types of signal source such as LED s or other light sources. Similarly the electromagnetic radiation emitted by laser emitter or a different light signal source may be of any frequency capable of reflecting off of a surface and may include any visible frequency or set of frequencies infrared ultraviolet or any combination of the above for example.

Laser emitter or an different type of electromagnetic signal emitter is configured such that the electromagnetic signal receptor is enabled to receive tracking signals reflected off the tracking surface from the electromagnetic signal emitter. For example electromagnetic signal receptor may include a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS imaging array a charge coupled device CCD or any other type of electromagnetic sensor enabled to track motion and changes in position in the reflection of the electromagnetic signal from the laser emitter .

Cradle includes input elements analogous to those commonly found on a mouse such as button and scroll wheel . These input elements may be used just as they are on a mouse but communicate signals generated by their use to digital pen which may combine them with other input information and transmit them to a separate computing system. In other embodiments cradle may communicate information from button and scroll wheel to a separate communicative system separately from digital pen .

These user input elements may perform a different function based on whether or not digital pen is docked in cradle . For example digital pen may include a single button which may be configured to perform the functions of a primary button corresponding to the typical left button of a mouse such as to select something on screen that the pointer is positioned at when digital pen is not docked in cradle . When digital pen is docked in cradle button may be re assigned to perform the function of a secondary mouse button typical of the right button of a mouse such as to generate a pop up contextual menu while the primary button function is performed by the actual left button on cradle i.e. button in the embodiment of or by a single button housed on cradle in another embodiment. In yet other embodiments digital pens and cradles may have two or more buttons scroll wheels or other user input elements any of which may assume an altered function depending on whether the digital pen is docked in the cradle or not.

Hybrid pointing device may use any of a variety of mechanisms to detect when digital pen is docked in cradle . In one illustrative embodiment for example a magnet may be mounted on either digital pen or cradle and a magnetically activated switched mounted on the other of the two bodies at a position adjacent to the position of the magnet when the digital pen becomes docked in the cradle . Other embodiments may use other docking detection means such as an infrared or visible photo emitter and sensor on cradle that become blocked when digital pen becomes docked in cradle or one or more mechanical levers on cradle that become actuated when digital pen is docked in cradle for example.

Tracking engine may also use different tracking parameters based on whether or not digital pen is docked in cradle . For example tracking engine may be optimized for handwriting when digital pen is undocked such as by increasing the resources used for precise tracking at slow speeds while tracking engine may be optimized for a pointing function when digital pen is docked in cradle for example by re scaling the ratio of tracked speed to pointer speed. Other reassignment of tracking parameters as a function of whether the digital pen is docked in the cradle may be used in other embodiments.

Cradle may be powered by its own small battery by energy inductively received from depression of buttons or other manual manipulation by a user during ordinary usage by energy received from digital pen or any combination of these or other sources in various embodiments. The battery of cradle may be rechargeable from digital pen according to one embodiment.

Digital pen becomes communicatively connected with cradle when it is docked in cradle such as through electrical contacts so that digital pen is configured to receive signals from buttons and comprised in the cradle or from other input elements on cradle such as scroll wheel of . Electrical contacts may also enable energy transfer between digital pen and cradle when digital pen is docked in cradle . In other embodiments digital pen and cradle may not have electrical contacts but may establish power and communication links by another means such as magnetic charging for example. In still another embodiment cradle may be able to power the signal generation of its buttons and a scroll wheel or other input elements by the kinetic energy of those input elements being manipulated by a user or elements by the kinetic energy of the cradle itself being moved by a user for example.

Tracking engine is configured as a relative tracking engine in this embodiment although digital pen is also capable of sensing a reflected light signal from up to a maximum height above the reflecting surface that may be much higher than its docked height when docked in cradle . The maximum height is still likely to be higher than would be encountered with normal writing style usage by a user using the digital pen by itself in a pen style usage mode. Digital pen is enabled to distinguish when it is at a contact distance from the reflecting surface consistent within normal tolerances with being docked in cradle or being held in physical contact with the reflecting surface and when it is at a significantly higher hovering height when it is being held significantly higher than the contact height.

This capability combined with the relative tracking engine provides substantial advantages over either a relative tracking engine alone or an absolute tracking engine alone particularly for application with a desktop computer. For example it enables a user to write in contact with the reflecting surface which is tracked and translated into written matter on a user output such as a monitor and it enables the user to lift the pen a short distance above the reflecting surface such as between one letter or word to the next or even to lift the pen marginally to dot a lower case letter i for example. Tracking engine then tracks the position of the digital pen projected above the reflecting surface neglecting any angle of the digital pen to the orthogonal and resumes translating the motions of the digital pen into written matter on the user output when the digital pen is brought back within the contact distance. In the example of the letter i then it tracks the translated position of the digital pen between the staff of the i to the dot while omitting translating the digital pen s transit corresponding to the hovering height into written matter allowing the user to write in a natural manner with digital pen .

The maximum hovering height may be in the range of ten to one hundred millimeters above the tracking surface plus or minus a margin consistent with ordinary manufacturing tolerances to give some small margin of tolerance at the lower end to small departures from the contact distance while the maximum height may allow more than a margin of reasonable use for a user lifting the digital pen above the reflecting surface.

In another illustrative embodiment laser emitter may also be configured to project a virtual display image output onto a tracking surface to create a virtual display. The virtual display may also be projected by other laser emitters mounted on or contained within either or both of digital pen cradle or other components in communication with a computing system associated with hybrid pointing device . The virtual display image projected by the laser emitter or other associated laser emitters may represent a portion of a larger display image that may be unseen in full but that is tracked in electronic memory with the portion being projected at any one time dependent on the movements of digital pen which are accounted for so as to cancel out the effects of such movement on the appearance of the virtual display image. The virtual display image may thereby be made to seem to remain unmoving while digital pen is moved over it and movements of digital pen may seem to illuminate different portions of the larger display image.

A user may then interact with the virtual display image by using digital pen to point to select or click on objects displayed within the virtual display image on the tracking surface or write on portions of the virtual display image on the tracking surface. In embodiments in which one or more lasers on the cradle participate in projecting the virtual display surface the relative motion of digital pen and any relative motion between digital pen and cradle may also be accounted for in projecting the virtual display image. These are illustrative of ways in which hybrid pointing device may be configured to receive inputs with reference to the virtual display image.

The lasers used to project the virtual display image may for example be emitted by micro electro mechanical system MEMS or nano electro mechanical system NEMS scale laser emitters paired with similarly scaled actuatable mirrors to manipulate each laser through a projection pattern to create the virtual image. As one illustrative example a laser projection system with a total volume of approximately five cubic centimeters has been contemplated for inclusion within a digital pen as part of hybrid input device . Other embodiments of larger or smaller scales down to the smallest scales of laser projectors available at a given time may be used in other embodiments.

In another illustrative embodiment the laser projected virtual display image may be used as the primary output display of a computing system so that a separate display becomes optional and the hybrid input device comes to serve as the basic output device as well as input device of a mobile computing system. This may also enable hybrid input device to serve by itself as a mobile computing system particularly when using a wireless connection system to provide network connectivity with other computing systems.

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices. As described herein such executable instructions may be stored on a medium such that they are capable of being read and executed by one or more components of a computing system thereby configuring the computing system with new capabilities.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . These components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a hybrid pointing device comprising both a digital pen and a cradle according to a variety of different embodiments. Additional input devices not shown that may also be used may include a mouse trackball touch pad joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory may be implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is illustratively allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is illustratively used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is illustratively executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one illustrative embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is illustratively designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device .

Mobile computing system also includes network . Mobile computing device is illustratively in wireless communication with network which may be the Internet a wide area network or a local area network for example by sending and receiving electromagnetic signals of a suitable protocol between communication interface and wireless interface . Wireless interface may be a wireless hub or cellular antenna for example or any other signal interface. Wireless interface in turn provides access via network to a wide array of additional computing resources illustratively represented by computing resources and . Naturally any number of computing devices in any locations may be in communicative connection with network . Computing device is enabled to make use of executable instructions stored on the media of memory component such as executable instructions that enable computing device to translate an indication of a changing position received from one or more components such as a digital pen component of a hybrid pen mouse pointing device into a changing position of a pointer on a graphical interface and other tasks in a few illustrative embodiments.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. As a particular example while the terms computer computing device or computing system may herein sometimes be used alone for conveniences it is well understood that each of these could refer to any computing device computing system computing environment mobile device or other information processing component or context and is not limited to any individual interpretation. As another particular example while many embodiments are presented with illustrative elements that are widely familiar at the time of filing the patent application it is envisioned that many new innovations in computing technology will affect elements of different embodiments in such aspects as user interfaces user input methods computing environments and computing methods and that the elements defined by the claims may be embodied according to these and other innovative advances while still remaining consistent with and encompassed by the elements defined by the claims herein.

