---

title: Method, system and computer readable medium for addressing handling from an operating system
abstract: A method, system and computer readable medium for information handling within an operating system, including providing a record retrieval program; providing an input device within a window or screen of the operating system and configured to enter an execute command which initiates a record retrieval from local and remote information sources using the record retrieval program; using the record retrieval program to enter first information into search fields provided in the record retrieval program; entering the execute command using the input device after the step of entering the first information; searching, using the record retrieval program, the local and remote information sources for second information associated with the first information; and displaying the second information in the record retrieval program, when one of the local and remote information sources includes second information associated with the first information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08306993&OS=08306993&RS=08306993
owner: Arendi S.A.R.L.
number: 08306993
owner_city: Luxembourg
owner_country: LU
publication_date: 20070507
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 390 303 which was filed on Sep. 3 1999 by Atle Hedloy which is presently incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related to commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 189 626 incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to a method system and computer readable medium for name and address handling hereinafter called address handling and more particularly to a touch screen keyboard button icon menu voice command device etc. hereinafter called button provided in a computer program such as a word processing program spreadsheet program etc. or operating system such as WINDOWS operating system MACINTOSH operating system etc. and coupled to an information management source for providing address handling within a document created by the computer program or within the operating system.

In recent years with the advent of programs such as word processors spreadsheets etc. hereinafter called word processors and operating systems such as WINDOWS operating system MACINTOSH operating system etc. users may require retrieval of information such as name and address information etc. for insertion into a document such a letter fax etc. created with the word processor or for contact management at the operating system level. Typically the information is retrieved by the user from an information management source external to the word processor such as a database program contact management program etc. or from the word processor itself for insertion into the document. Examples of such word processors are WORD NOTEPAD EXCEL WORDPAD WORDPERFECT QUATROPRO AMIPRO etc. and examples of such information management sources are ACCESS OUTLOOK ORACLE DBASE RBASE CARDFILE etc.

However the information in the database must constantly be updated by the user. This requires the user to learn how to use and have access to the database. In this case a change in the information such as change in an address or a name etc. requires the user of the word processor to implement this change in the database or alternatively the change is made to the database centrally by a database administrator.

Accordingly an object of the present invention is to provide a method system and computer readable medium for address handling within a computer program or operating system.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method system and computer readable medium for address handling within a computer program such as a word processing program spreadsheet program etc or operating system such as such as WINDOWS operating system MACINTOSH operating system etc.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method system and computer readable medium for address handling within a computer program or operating system using an input device provided in the computer program.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method system and computer readable medium for address handling within a computer program or operating system using an input device such as a touch screen keyboard button icon menu voice command device etc. provided in the computer program and coupled to an information management source.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method system and computer readable medium for address handling within a computer program or operating system using an input device provided in the computer program or operating system and coupled to local and or remote information management source such as a database program contact management program computer network Internet site etc.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method system and computer readable medium for address handling within a computer program or operating system using an input device provided in the computer program or operating system and coupled to local and remote information management source such as a database program contact management program computer network Internet site etc. wherein data found in the local database is related to data found in the remote database.

The above and other objects are achieved according to the present invention by providing a novel method system and computer readable medium for information handling within an operating system including providing a record retrieval program providing an input device within a window or screen of the operating system and configured to enter an execute command which initiates a record retrieval from local and remote information sources using the record retrieval program using the record retrieval program to enter first information into search fields provided in the record retrieval program entering the execute command using the input device after the step of entering the first information searching using the record retrieval program the local and remote information sources for second information associated with the first information and displaying the second information in the record retrieval program when one of the local and remote information sources includes second information associated with the first information.

In an embodiment of the present invention single button addressing is achieved by providing an input device such as a touch screen keyboard icon menu voice command device etc. hereinafter called button in a computer program such as a word processing program spreadsheet program etc. hereinafter called word processor or an operating system such as WINDOWS operating system MACINTOSH operating system etc. for executing address handling therein.

Accordingly in a word processor or operating system the button is added and a user types information such as an addressee s name or a part of the name etc. in a document created with the word processor such as a letter fax etc. and then clicks selects commands etc. the button via the appropriate input device such as a touch screen button keyboard button icon menu choice voice command device etc. A program then executes and retrieves the typed information from the document and searches a local i.e. the user s personal computer or an Intranet coupled to the user s personal computer or remote i.e. the Internet information management source such as a database file database program contact management program etc. hereinafter called database to determine if the information such as the name or part of the name typed and searched by the program exists in the database. If the program does not find stored information such as a name corresponding to the name or part of the name typed the user is asked by the program whether the information such as the name that was not found should be added to the local database. In addition the user may enter any other information besides the name such as addresses businesses telephone numbers fax numbers e mail address etc. so that this other information can be stored in the local database for later use.

If the program finds name s and address es corresponding to the part of the addressee s name typed this additional information is automatically entered into the user s word processor optionally with a confirmation from the user that this is the correct data and stored in the local and or remote database. If the typed address information does not correspond to data already stored in the local or remote database after clicking on the button the program for example lets the user decide 1 if this is new data e.g. a new address for an existing contact 2 if the stored data should be changed to what the user just typed 3 if this is a new contact with the same name as one already entered into the database or 4 if the typed address is only to be used once and therefore not to be stored in the database at all. If later for example a name with several address stored in the local or remote database is recalled all addresses for this contact will be displayed so that the correct address can be selected by the user.

The program may be extended to also store and retrieve other information such as telephone numbers fax numbers e mail addresses etc. Once the program recalls the telephone numbers fax numbers e mail addresses etc. the user can command the program to send e mails faxes etc. Similarly if the user types in the name of a mailing list the program create merge letters group e mails etc.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views and more particularly to thereof there is illustrated flow charts of single button addressing according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention.

In after the user has inserted the address in the word processor the user commands the button at step and the program analyzes what the user has typed in the document at step . At step the program decides what was found in the document and if the program found nothing in the document or what it found was un interpretable the program goes to step and outputs an appropriate message to the user and then quits at step . The program analyzes what the user has typed in the document at step for example by analyzing i paragraph line separations formatting etc. ii street avenue drive lane boulevard city state zip code county designators and abbreviations etc. iii Mr. Mrs. Sir Madam Jr. Sr. designators and abbreviations etc. iv Inc. Ltd. P.C. L.L.C designators and abbreviations etc. and v a database of common male female names etc.

If the program finds an e mail address mailing list category name telephone number or other information at step an appropriate action is performed by the program and then the program execution quits at step . If the program only finds a name or initials or the like the program looks up the name in the database at step and at step the program determines what was found. If the program finds more than one possible contact address match at step the program displays menu choices to the user to let him choose an appropriate answer. Then at step the program inserts a correct address and name in the document and then at step the program quits execution. If the program finds one match exactly i.e. one contact with one address the program inserts the correct address and name in the document at step and then quits execution at step . If the program does not find a name in the database at step the program prompts the user to specify an address and then quits execution at step . If the program at step finds a name and an address at step the name is looked up in the database. Then at step if no match is found at step the program inserts an address and a name which are possibly corrected by the user into the database and then quits execution at step . If at step the name and address is found at step the program either takes no action or displays the data for the user to edit. If at step the name is found but not the address the program prompts the user for a decision at step . If the user decides that this another contact with a same name the program goes to step . If the user decides that this is a one time occurrence no action is taken and the program quits at step . If the user decides that the contact has for example moved and that this is a new address at step one of the old addresses for the contact is replaced with the new one and the program quits at step . If the user decides that this is an additional address for the contact at step the additional address is inserted into the database for that contact and execution quits at step .

The flowchart shown in is similar to the flowchart in except for some additional steps which will now be discussed. At step if the program only finds a name or a similar name then the name is looked up in the database at step then at step if the program found more than one possible contact address match the program displays choices to the user to let him choose an address at step . Then at step the user decides whether to insert the selected address into the document. If the user does not decide to select the address into the document the program quits execution at step . If the user decides to insert the selected address into the document the program inserts the address and name into the document at step and then quits at step .

If the program finds a name and address in the database at step then at step the program looks up the name in the database and at step the program determines what it has found. If the program does not find the name at step at step the program prompts the user for a decision and review and whether to insert the contact and address. If the user does not decide to insert the contact address the program quits at step . If the user decides to insert the contact address at step the program inserts the address and name which may be possibly corrected by the user or program in the database and then execution quits at step .

If at step the program finds a name and not an address then at step the name is looked up in the database. Then at step the program decides whether this contact has another address. If the contact does not have another address at step the program prompts the user for a decision and review and whether to add the address. If the user does not want to add the address at step the program quits at step . If the user wants to add the address at step because this is an additional address for the contact at step the address is inserted in the database for the contact and execution quits at step .

At step if the user decides that this is another contact with a same name then the program goes to step . If at step the user decides that this is a one time occurrence then the program quits at step . If at step the user decides that the contact has for example moved the program goes to step . If at step the user decides that this is an additional address for the contact at step the program inserts the address in the database for the contact and then quits at step .

Various exemplary screen shots which are generated during execution of the program according to the present invention will now be described with reference to and examples 1 7 as follows.

At this point the user can cancel the operation by commanding the Cancel button ask the program to store data in the database and return to the document by commanding the OK button or check details before storing data into the database by commanding the Details button . If the user commands the Details button as shown in for example a message screen is provided so that the user can review and edit data and the selection store the data and in the database by commanding a Add and Choose button see more options by commanding an Options button or cancel the operation by commanding the Cancel button .

At this point the user may command the Choose button to use the selected address and return to the document or the user may command the More button to view how the program interpreted what the user typed in the word processor and possibly change this data wherein the program generates an updated screen as shown in for example . The updated screen includes the data which displays the name typed in the word processor as interpreted by the program address fields and the fields for the address type selection such as home business etc. which may be changed by the user before the program stores it in the database the Add and Choose button a button for returning to the screen of and an Add this address to the selected contact above button . The user might then command the Add this address to the selected contact above button and the result in the word processor is illustrated in . The user can also cancel the operation by commanding the Cancel button or command the add choose button to add this name and address as a new contact and address or open the database before storing data into the database by commanding a Full details button as will be later described.

Alternatively in the screen shown in the user may command the More button at which time the program generates the screen as shown in for example and as previously described. In this screen the user might then command the Add this address to the selected contact above button . If the address typed is already in use the program generates a screen including a message and Yes and No buttons and respectively as shown in for example . If the user hits the Yes button the program overwrites the contact address with the address specified by the user e.g. if the contact has moved and the result in the word processor is shown in for example .

Up to this point the single button addressing program has been described in terms of providing a device for address handling within a computer program such as a word processor or spread sheet. The following embodiment of the single button addressing program runs on a client e.g. a computer cell phone or palm top device operating system and integrates local address and phone number data with network data such as data obtained from an Intranet or the Internet resolving differences and presenting them in a unified format.

The single button addressing program works within word processing personal information management etc. software e.g. as previously described . The single button addressing program allows the data found on a network Intranet or Internet site to be saved in the local database and checked against network data as it changes without the network database being aware of the local database. The network can be a public network such as the Internet or a private data network such as an Intranet. The local database can be a database management system such as Microsoft ACCESS Microsoft SQL server etc. running on the local computer or any accessible server. The local database can also be an application such as a personal information manager like Microsoft OUTLOOK or Symantec Act etc. that maintains a database therein. Similarly the remote database may be a public or private data service a Web based data source or a CD ROM of information used in the user s computer or computer network.

The invention according to the present embodiment performs data integration in the following way 1 the address handling function is typically implemented as a subprogram within a larger program such as the single button address program provided in a word processor as previously described or as single button address program provided in an operating system as will be later described 2 the subprogram is started with a complete or partial name and address 3 the subprogram queries the local and remote databases and compares the results 4 the subprogram provides user interface for the user to select the appropriate result wherein the choices are marked based on whether the data is remote or local. If data was originally remote and the user saved it locally the user is alerted if the data has changed on the remote database 5 if the data chosen by the user is different or not present in the local database the user is given the opportunity to save the data locally and 6 the chosen address is returned to the calling program which may for example include it in a document.

At step the subprogram determines whether or not there are any matching address results. If there are no matching results the user is given the opportunity to store or not to store the address at step . If the user chooses to store the address at step the address is stored in the local database. If the user chooses not to store the address at step the address is returned to the calling program as delivered to the user and without being stored in the local database.

If at step the subprogram determines that there are matching results the local and remote matching database results are compared at step as follows. At step for each match in the local database step determines whether or not there is a corresponding match in the remote or network database results. At step if a match is found between the local and remote databases the matching result is marked as local data which is consistent with the network data. At step if no match is found between the local and remote databases step determines whether or no the local data was marked as consistent with the network data. If the local data was not marked as consistent with the network data at step the local data is marked as inconsistent with the network data. If the local data was marked as consistent with the network data control transfers back to step to process the next match in the local database.

In the search screen includes for example a Find Now button for executing a search a Stop button for stopping a search in progress and a Save button for saving found data. The search screen includes for example File Option and Help menu selections search criteria including for example fields for inputting a Name a City and or Country and Public Private indicators for indicating Private Corporation and or Public database searching options. The search results are displayed in a search window including Name Address City and Phone sort buttons which sort the search results according to the button selected.

The search results are further marked with status indicators . Status indicator for example includes a computer icon with no color which indicates that the same data was found both locally and on the remote database e.g. the Internet . Status indicator for example includes a globe icon which indicates that the same data was found on the remote database but not on the local database. Status indicator for example includes a computer icon of a first color e.g. yellow which indicates that the same data was found on the local database but not on the remote database. Status indicator for example includes a computer icon of a second color e.g. red which indicates that the data was originally added to the local database from the remote database but now is no longer found on the remote database.

As stated above the system includes at least one computer readable medium or alternatively the computer readable medium may be accessed through various paths such as networks internet drives etc. Examples of computer readable media are compact discs hard disks floppy disks tape magneto optical disks PROMs EPROM EEPROM Flash EPROM DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. Stored on any one or on a combination of computer readable media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the computer and for enabling the computer to interact with a human user. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems and user applications such as development tools. Such computer readable media further includes the computer program product of the present invention for performing any of the processes according to the present invention described above see e.g. . The computer code devices of the present invention can be any interpreted or executable code mechanism including but not limited to scripts interpreters dynamic link libraries Java classes and complete executable programs etc.

The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Address handling according to this invention is a significant simplification relative to existing methods and requires little or no training on the part of a user as correct addresses are retrieved with a minimal number of user commands clicks keystrokes etc. In addition a program according to the present invention can be programmed and created in most existing programming languages and be connected to most modern word processors. Therefore according to the present invention the process of creating and updating records in an address database is significantly simplified since this may now be performed directly from the word processor.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of word processing documents such as WORD documents and Excel spreadsheets the present invention is applicable to all types of word processing documents such as NOTEPAD WORDPAD WORDPERFECT QUATROPRO AMIPRO etc. as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of information management or database programs such as OUTLOOK etc. the present invention is applicable to all types of information management or database programs such as ACCESS ORACLE DBASE RBASE CARDFILE including flat files etc. as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of operating systems such as WINDOWS MACINTOSH etc. the present invention is applicable to all types of operating systems such as UNIX LINUX etc. as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of providing an input device such as a button in a word processor for address handling therein the present invention may be practiced with all types of input devices such as a touch screen keyboard button icon menu voice command device etc. as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of a program retrieving information from a document before searching a database the user may select the information in the document to be searched by the program in the database e.g. by highlighting selecting italicizing underlining etc. as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of a program retrieving a name or portion thereof from a document before searching a database the program may retrieve an address or portion thereof from the document before searching the database and insert correct complete etc. the retrieved address based on the information found in the database corresponding to the retrieved address or portion thereof as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of an embodiment as described with respect to all of the relevant features as described with respect to apply to the embodiment as described with respect to as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Similarly although the present invention is defined in terms of an embodiment as described with respect to all of the relevant features as described with respect to apply to the embodiment as described with respect to as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Although the present invention is defined in terms of an address handling program provided in an operating system environment such as WINDOWS MACINTOSH etc. of a personal computer the program may run on an operating system environment such as WINDOWS CE etc. of a client such as cell phone palm top device personal organizer etc. as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Obviously numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

This application claims priority and contains subject matter related to Norwegian patent application No. 984066 filed on Sep. 3 1998 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

