---

title: Process for forming a chromium diffusion portion and articles made therefrom
abstract: In one embodiment, a method for forming an article with a diffusion portion comprises: forming a slurry comprising chromium and silicon, applying the slurry to the article, and heating the article to a sufficient temperature and for a sufficient period of time to diffuse chromium and silicon into the article and form a diffusion portion comprising silicon and a microstructure comprising α-chromium. In one embodiment, a gas turbine component comprises: a superalloy and a diffusion portion having a depth of less than or equal to 60 μm measured from the superalloy surface into the gas turbine component. The diffusion portion has a diffusion surface having a microstructure comprising greater than or equal to 40% by volume α-chromium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08262812&OS=08262812&RS=08262812
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08262812
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070404
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC26 05NT42643 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

When exposed to high temperatures i.e. greater than or equal to about 1 300 C. and to oxidative environments metals can oxidize corrode and become brittle. These environments are produced in turbines such as those used for power generation applications. Metallic coatings when applied to metal turbine components such as via thermal spraying techniques can reduce the effects that high temperature and corrosive and oxidative environments have on the metal components.

The family of thermal spray processes include detonation gun deposition high velocity oxy fuel deposition HVOF and its variants such as high velocity air fuel plasma spray flame spray and electric wire are spray. In most thermal coating processes a material is heated to near or somewhat above its melting point and droplets of the material accelerated in a gas stream. The droplets are directed against the surface of a substrate to be coated where they adhere and flow into thin lamellar particles called splats.

Thermal spray coating processes have been used for many years to deposit layered coatings. These coatings consist of discrete layers of different composition and properties. For example the coating may be a simple duplex coating consisting of a layer of a metal alloy such as nickel chromium adjacent to the substrate with a layer of zirconia over it.

A current problem exists when MCrAlY coatings are used in integrated gasification combined cycle IGCC systems that is systems using an innovative process that uses coal to produce power. The process is cleaner and more economically efficient than other processes that use coal to produce power. The process involves treating coal and reforming coal to a gas mixture that includes hydrogen gas H carbon monoxide CO and carbon particulates. This gas mixture is combusted with oxygen in a turbine to produce power. The carbon particulates however collide with the coated turbine components and erode the components and or coatings and thereby shorten the effective operating life of the components.

Another turbine component problem exists in that they also experience premature failure due to environmental attack particularly in the hot gas path of the gas turbine engine.

Therefore there exists a need for articles such as turbine components that have enhanced resistance to harsh environments such as those in a gas turbine.

Disclosed herein are methods for forming chromide diffusion portions in articles and articles made therefrom. In one embodiment a method for forming an article with a diffusion portion comprises forming a slurry comprising chromium and silicon applying the slurry to the article and heating the article to a sufficient temperature and for a sufficient period of time to diffuse chromium and silicon into the article and form a diffusion portion comprising silicon and a microstructure comprising chromium.

In one embodiment a gas turbine component comprises a superalloy and a diffusion portion having a depth of less than or equal to 60 m measured from the superalloy surface into the gas turbine component. The diffusion portion has a diffusion surface having a microstructure comprising greater than or equal to 40 by volume chromium.

In one embodiment an article comprises a superalloy article comprising a diffusion portion. The diffusion portion has a 25 depth of the diffusion portion as measured from a surface of the depth portion toward a center of the article comprising less than or equal to 5 wt silicon based upon a total weight of that 25 depth and having a microstructure comprising greater than or equal to 50 by volume chromium.

The above described and other features are exemplified by the following detailed description and appended claims.

Enhanced high temperature protection of an article e.g. turbine component and particularly a component comprising a superalloy e.g. a nickel Ni and or cobalt Co based alloy e.g. superalloy can be achieved with a high purity chromide diffusion portion. For example a chromium silicon slurry can be applied to an article. The slurry can comprise chromium silicon an activator and a carrier. The chromium and silicon in the slurry are high purity materials e.g. the chromium can be chromium powder having a purity of greater than or equal to about 95 weight percent wt chromium or more specifically greater than or equal to 98.5 wt and even more specifically greater than or equal to about 99 wt . Similarly the silicon can be silicon powder having a purity of greater than or equal to about 95 wt silicon e.g. more specifically greater than or equal to 97.5 wt and even more specifically greater than or equal to about 99 wt .

In order to form the diffusion portion the chromium and silicon are combined with the activator and the carrier. The slurry can comprise greater than or equal to about 55 wt chromium less than or equal to about 10 wt silicon about 10 wt to about 30 wt activator and about 10 wt to about 35 wt carrier or more specifically greater than or equal to about 60 wt chromium about 0.5 wt to about 8 wt silicon about 10 wt to about 20 wt activator e.g. more specifically about 12 wt to about 15 wt activator and about 10 wt to about 20 wt carrier e.g. more specifically about 12 wt to about 17 wt carrier based upon a total weight of the slurry.

The slurry is applied to the article and then the article is heated to a sufficient temperature to vaporize the carrier and cause the silicon and chromium to diffuse into the article and alloy. The resultant article comprises a diffusion portion wherein the first 25 depth of the diffusion portion measured from the surface of the article comprises greater than or equal to about 50 wt chromium or more specifically greater than or equal to about 60 wt or yet more specifically greater than or equal to about 75 wt chromium based upon a total weight of the first 25 depth of the diffusion portion. The silicon can be present in this portion in an amount of less than or equal to about 3 wt or more specifically about 0.1 wt to about 1.5 wt based upon a total weight of the first 25 depth of the diffusion portion. For example up to about 25 of the diffusion portion depth from the surface toward a center of the article or more specifically up to about 50 depth of the diffusion portion depth comprises greater than or equal to about 50 wt chromium or more specifically greater than or equal to about 70 wt or yet more specifically greater than or equal to about 80 wt chromium and even more specifically greater than or equal to about 90 wt chromium.

The microstructure of the diffusion portion comprises alpha chromium. For example for the first 25 depth of the diffusion portion or more specifically the first 40 depth and even more specifically the first 50 depth measured from the surface into the diffusion portion the microstructure comprises greater than or equal to about 50 by volume chromium or more specifically greater than or equal to about 70 by volume chromium or even more specifically greater than or equal to about 80 by volume chromium and yet more specifically greater than or equal to about 90 by volume chromium and even greater than or equal to about 95 by volume chromium. The entire diffusion portion can comprise greater than or equal to about 30 by volume chromium or more specifically greater than or equal to about 50 by volume chromium or even more specifically greater than or equal to about 70 by volume chromium.

The chromium and silicon employed in the process can be in the form of powders. The particular powder size e.g. particle and agglomerate size is dependent upon the particular application. For example to form a diffusion portion in the surface of a Ni based superalloy turbine component a chromium size can be less than or equal to about 150 micrometers e.g. less than or equal to about 100 mesh and the silicon size can be less than or equal to about 150 micrometers m for ease of processing.

The powders are combined with an activator and a carrier. The activator causes the reaction of the chromium and the silicon with each other and with the metal s of the article e.g. Ni Co and so forth at the processing temperatures e.g. about 1 080 C. to about 1 120 C. . These processing temperatures attain the desired depth of diffusion as well as percentage of chromium. Exemplary activators include ammonium halides such as ammonium chloride ammonium fluoride e.g. ammonium bifluoride ammonium bromide as well as combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing activators. Depending upon the type of activator employed water can adversely affect the activator either causing the reaction to occur too soon or inhibiting the reaction. Hence in some embodiments the carrier can be water free i.e. contains no water or sufficient alcohol can be added to the carrier such that it binds with any water present. Also the reaction can be performed in an inert atmosphere e.g. in a hydrogen argon or similar atmosphere that does not chemically react with the carrier under the processing conditions . In order to inhibit adverse interaction between the activator and water in the atmosphere e.g. prior to being disposed in the inert environment the activator can be an encapsulated activator that remains encapsulated until heated e.g. heated to a temperature of greater than or equal to about 200 C.

The carrier forms the powders and activator into a slurry e.g. a gel like form that can be applied to the article. The carrier can be an alcohol a braze gel as well as combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing carriers. Exemplary braze gels include Braz binder Gel commercially available from Vitta Corporation Bethal Conn.

The slurry can be applied to the article in various fashions and the desired viscosity of the slurry is dependent upon the application technique employed. For example the slurry can be applied by spraying painting dipping and so forth as well as combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing. Optionally the article can be cleaned before the slurry application such as via grit blasting and so forth.

Once the slurry has been applied to the article the article can be heated e.g. in an inert environment. The coating can be heated to a sufficient temperature to activate the activator vaporize the chromium and silicon and attain the desired diffusion. For example the article can be maintained at a temperature of about 1 080 C. to about 1 120 C. for a sufficient period of time to attain the desired diffusion portion and diffusion depth. The period of time can be about 1 hour to about 7 hours or more specifically about 3.5 hours to about 4.5 hours.

The resultant diffusion portion can comprise a depth measured from the surface of the article of less than or equal to about 60 micrometers m or more specifically about 10 m to about 50 m or yet more specifically about 15 m to about 38 m. The diffusion portion can also have greater than or equal to about 60 wt chromium at the first 25 depth of the diffusion portion as measured from the surface of the article or more specifically greater than or equal to 65 wt or even more specifically greater than or equal to 75 wt . More specifically the first 25 depth of the diffusion portion comprises greater than or equal to 40 by volume chromium or specifically greater than or equal to 50 by volume yet more specifically greater than or equal to 80 by volume and even more specifically greater than or equal to 90 by volume and even greater than or equal to 95 by volume. The chromium weight at the surface is based upon the total weight percent of the surface diffusion portion from the surface of the diffusion portion down 25 of the depth of the diffusion portion e.g. if the diffusion portion has a 40 m depth the outer 10 m of the diffusion portion would have greater than or equal to 60 wt chromium and less than 5 wt silicon e.g. about 0.1 wt to about 1.5 wt .

The following examples are provided to further illustrate the present process and enhanced coatings and are not intended to limit the scope hereof.

A diffusion portion can be formed by grit blasting a 3stage bucket for a turbine engine to clean its surface. A slurry can be formed by mixing 300 grams g of 99 purity chromium powder having a size particle and agglomerate of less than or equal to 150 m and 5 g of 99 purity silicon powder having a size particle and agglomerate of less than or equal to 150 m with 95 g of ammonium chloride and 100 g of braze gel. The cleaned bucket can then be coated with the slurry e.g. gel by dipping the bucket into the slurry.

The dipped bucket will then be loaded into an atmosphere furnace. The furnace can then be ramped up to a temperature of 1 080 C. at a rate of about 10 F. 12 C. per minute with an inert atmosphere of hydrogen in the furnace. The furnace will be maintained at 1 080 C. to enable a 3 hour soak. After soak the furnace is shut off and allowed to cool to room temperature with the bucket in the furnace. Once the furnace is cool the bucket can then be unloaded and light grit blast to remove any remnant slurry on the surface.

The resultant bucket will have an approximately 0.001 inch 25.4 m chrome silicon diffusion portion formed in the surface of the alloy. The resultant bucket will comprise alpha chrome with silicon and base alloy i.e. nickel Ni in the outer 25 to 50 of the bucket with the inner area being mainly Ni with chrome to form a finger like structure diffusion zone NiCr. Hence the diffusion portion can comprise 70 wt chrome and about 0.1 wt to about 1.5 wt silicon in the outer 25 of the diffusion portion depth. Actually greater than or equal to 90 by volume and even 100 by volume of the outer 25 can be chromium phase. Hence the diffusion portion can comprise greater than or equal to about 70 wt chromium about 0.5 wt to about 1.5 wt silicon with the remainder being the alloy of the bucket. Additionally the chromium and silicon will be alloyed together and alloyed with the alloy materials of the bucket e.g. with the nickel .

The present process enables the formation of a diffusion portion having high concentrations of chromium. The process employs high temperatures in the formation of the diffusion portion. This diffusion portion is particularly useful in protecting superalloy articles i.e. articles that comprise other than iron as the base metal that are employed in high temperature environments such as a turbine.

Other coating techniques generally employ water and produce a coating i.e. a layer on the surface of the article with low levels of chromium e.g. less than or equal to 30 wt chromium based upon a total weight of the coating . Furthermore these these typically painted on coatings do not comprise chromium.

Ranges disclosed herein are inclusive and combinable e.g. ranges of up to about 25 wt or more specifically about 5 wt to about 20 wt is inclusive of the endpoints and all intermediate values of the ranges of about 5 wt to about 25 wt etc. . Combination is inclusive of blends mixtures alloys reaction products and the like. Furthermore the terms first second and the like herein do not denote any order quantity or importance but rather are used to distinguish one element from another and the terms a and an herein do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item. The modifier about used in connection with a quantity is inclusive of the stated value and has the meaning dictated by context e.g. includes the degree of error associated with measurement of the particular quantity . The suffix s as used herein is intended to include both the singular and the plural of the term that it modifies thereby including one or more of that term e.g. the colorant s includes one or more colorants . Reference throughout the specification to one embodiment another embodiment an embodiment and so forth means that a particular element e.g. feature structure and or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment described herein and may or may not be present in other embodiments. In addition it is to be understood that the described elements may be combined in any suitable manner in the various embodiments.

All cited patents patent applications and other references are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. However if a term in the present application contradicts or conflicts with a term in the incorporated reference the term from the present application takes precedence over the conflicting term from the incorporated reference.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

