---

title: Systems and methods for recording resource association for recording
abstract: Included are embodiments for determining an extension-to-channel mapping. At least one embodiment includes receiving first data associated with a communication from at least one communications device and receiving second data from a recording resource. Some embodiments include determining whether the at least one communications device is coupled to a recording resource. Some embodiments include matching the communications device to a recording resource and in response to matching, creating an association of the at least one communications device to the recording resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106737&OS=09106737&RS=09106737
owner: VERINT AMERICAS, INC.
number: 09106737
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
In many communications environments customers desire to record communications. As the number of communications devices in a communications environment may be very large a large number of recorders and or recorder channels may be utilized to facilitate recording of this data. More specifically in some environments a recorder may be utilized that includes a plurality of recording channels. As various communications devices may be coupled to the recorder via these channels the recorder may be configured to record data associated with communications with devices on these extensions. As the number of devices and or extensions coupled to the recorder increases mapping of the extensions to the recorder channel may become difficult. With incorrect extension to channel mapping location of recordings may become difficult.

Included are embodiments for determining an extension to channel mapping. At least one embodiment includes receiving first data associated with a communication from at least one communications device and receiving second data from a recording resource. Some embodiments include determining whether the at least one communications device is coupled to a recording resource. Some embodiments include matching the communications device to a recording resource and in response to matching creating an association of the at least one communications device to the recording resource.

Also included are embodiments of a system for determining an extension to channel mapping. At least one embodiment of a system includes a receiving component configured to receive data associated with a communication from at least one extension and a first determining component configured to determine a probability that the at least one extension is coupled to a recording channel. Some embodiments include a mapping component configured to create a map that includes an association of the at least one extension to the recording channel.

Also included are embodiments of a computer readable medium for determining an extension to channel mapping. At least one embodiment includes receiving logic configured to receive data associated with a communication from at least one extension and first determining logic configured to determine a probability that the at least one extension is coupled to a recording channel. Some embodiments include second determining logic configured to determine whether the probability that the at least one extension is coupled to the recording channel exceeds a predetermined threshold and mapping logic configured to create a map that includes an association of the at least one extension to the recording channel.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Included herein are embodiments that may be configured to facilitate mapping of extensions to channels and or recorders. More specifically in at least one exemplary embodiment a recorder and or other component may be configured to determine recording resource association e.g. channel mapping by sending a signal to an extension. Other embodiments may facilitate extension to channel association and or trunk channel to recording channel association and or extension to recording resource association by analyzing previously captured recording data to determine a current configuration.

Referring now to the drawings is a diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a communications network illustrating a configuration for recording data and mapping extensions to channels. As illustrated in the nonlimiting example of communications devices and which may include a telephone an Internet Protocol telephone a personal computer a Personal Digital Assistant a communications trunk etc. may be coupled to a call routing component which may include a switch call controller and or other components . More specifically the call routing component may be configured to facilitate communications among communications devices and and or with other communications devices. The call routing component may be configured to send substantive data which may include voice data screen data etc. and or control data associated with the communication.

As communications devices and may be associated with a common network these communications devices may be associated with an extension. The extension may be a local extension in a local network or may be a global extension in a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Internet Protocol IP environment cellular environment and or other Wide Area Network WAN configuration. More specifically in at least one nonlimiting example communications device may be associated with the extension 1234. When a first user on a communications device and or other device desires to contact a second user on the communications device the first user can dial the extension 1234 to be placed in contact with the communications device

Also included in the nonlimiting example of is a recorder . The recorder may be configured to record data communicated to and from communications devices . As illustrated in the recorder may be passively tapped to each of the lines between communications devices and and call routing component . More specifically the communications device is coupled to channel of the recorder . The communications device is coupled to channel of the recorder . The communications device is coupled to channel of the recorder .

As discussed above as a plurality of extensions may be tapped for recording at the recorder an accurate mapping of extensions to channels may become difficult. More specifically in many current implementations upon installation of the recorder a technician may manually determine each extension to which the recorder channels are coupled. While this may become a tedious task for a technician errors in this determination can cause loss of recorded data. Additionally as maintenance and or other changes to the network of occur the extensions may be moved and associated with different channels. As such the mapping configuration that was previously determined may no longer be accurate. As such in many current implementations the technician may be forced to manually re map the extension to channel connections.

While these current implementations utilize a manual mapping and re mapping embodiments of this disclosure may be configured for automatic mapping and or re mapping. More specifically referring again to the recorder may include mapping logic discussed in more detail below for determining the extensions to which one or more of the channels of the recorder are connected. Additionally the recorder may utilize at least one of the recorder channels CX in this nonlimiting example to facilitate utilization of the call routing component in mapping and or re mapping an extension and channel.

As a nonlimiting example the recorder may be configured to send a signal via channel CX to call one or more of the communications devices to determine the channel to which these extensions are coupled. During operation of the communications devices and the recorder can determine that the communications device is currently not in use and or has not been in use for a predetermined time period. Upon this determination the recorder can send a signal to the call routing component to initiate a call to the communications device . The recorder can then determine which channels recorded data or were otherwise active during the time that the recorder facilitated the call to the communications device . If the recorder determines that only one channel was active during this time the recorder can determine the channel to which the extension 1234 is coupled in this nonlimiting example C . If more than one channel was active during this time additional calls may be facilitated by the recorder to the communications device . By analyzing data on the various calls the recorder can determine that the channels C C C in this nonlimiting example are coupled to extensions 1234 5000 and 7456 respectively.

Similarly some embodiments may be configured such that the recorder is configured to facilitate a call to an extension such as extension 5000. Again depending on the particular configuration the recorder can initiate the call and or the call routing component can initiate the call. Regardless upon connecting with the communications device at extension 5000 the recorder can facilitate sending data to the communications device . By sending data to the communications device the recorder can record the sent data and store the sent data at a data storage component not shown or elsewhere . The recorder can then compare the data sent with data received at the recorder . As the recorder may be recording data from a plurality of extensions the recorder can compare the recorded data with the sent data until a match is found. Upon finding a match the recorder can map the extension from where the recording was received to the channel that captured the data.

One should note that a map as disclosed herein may include a visual map and or a non visual map. Additionally depending on the particular embodiment the map may be stored at a recorder at a call routing component at a data storage component and or elsewhere on the network. Additionally when accessing a created map a lookup table may be utilized to locate the desired data.

Similarly some embodiments may be configured to facilitate the dialing of an extension and upon connection with the communications device at that extension dialing a predetermined code for identifying the channel to which that extension is coupled. As a nonlimiting example upon connecting with extension 7456 the recorder can send the following code 55 7456 55 . This exemplary code may be utilized to indicate the beginning of the code the extension number being dialed and the end of the code. More specifically 55 may be a code that indicates that the recorder is determining an extension to channel mapping. Additionally 7456 may be utilized to indicate the extension that is dialed. Finally in this nonlimiting example 55 may be used to indicate that the code is finished.

Thus in operation the recorder can facilitate a communications session with the communications device . Upon establishment of the communications session the recorder can facilitate via channel CX for example sending of the code 55 7456 55 to the communications device . Because the recorder is coupled to the communications path to the communications device the recorder receives and records the code that was sent. The recorder can then recognize that a mapping test is being performed by recognizing that the recorded code includes a sub code of 55 . The recorder can then determine that the extension at this particular channel by determining that the sub code 7456 was recorded after the sub code 55 . The recorder can then determine that no other data is forthcoming in this code from the sub code 55 . From this information the recorder can determine the channel that is connected to that particular extension.

One should note that while in the description above a particular code was sent to the extension this code is a nonlimiting example as any code may be utilized for determining the channel to which an extension is connected. Additionally while the above nonlimiting examples discuss dialing information to determine an extension to channel mapping some embodiments may be configured such that the recorder can facilitate the playing and recording of sounds. The recorder can then use recognition logic to match the sent sounds to the recorded sounds.

Additionally while the nonlimiting examples described above illustrate a configuration where the recorder is configured to facilitate initiation of a communication for mapping extensions to channels this is not a requirement. More specifically in at least one exemplary embodiment the recorder may be configured for automatic call detection to monitor communications and recordings of the communications devices . Data associated with the communications and recordings may be stored and used to determine an extension to channel mapping. More specifically the recorder may monitor start times for various communications and start times for various recordings. By comparing this data the recorder may be able to determine a probability associated with an extension to channel mapping. If the probability that a particular channel is coupled to a particular extension reaches a predetermined threshold the recorder can map this configuration.

While the above exemplary embodiment discloses using start times to determine an extension to channel mapping this is also a nonlimiting example. More specifically other data such as call and recording duration data communicated versus data recorded end times of a communication and recording as well as other data.

Additionally one should note that in at least one exemplary embodiment one or more of the communications devices may be configured to send screen data to the recorder . The recorder and or other component may be configured to interpret one or more characteristics of the recorded screen data to determine the current mapping configuration.

Also included in the nonlimiting example of is a replay component . In this particular configuration the replay component may be configured to facilitate a determination of the channel and extension mapping. More specifically the replay component may be configured in at least one embodiment to initiate at least one communications request to the communications devices . The replay component may also be configured to retrieve recording data from the recorder or at a data storage component not shown for determining the extension to channel mapping. More specifically similar to embodiments discussed above the replay component may be configured to facilitate initiation of a communication monitoring of all or at least a portion communications that are received at the recorder and determine from the monitoring the channel that is associated with the dialed extension.

Similarly in some embodiments the replay component may be configured to dial an extension to establish a communications session. When a communications session is established the replay component can send a signal for recording at the recorder . Once recorded the replay component can access the plurality of recordings captured by the recorder . As the recordings may be stored according to the channel from which they were received the replay component can compare the sent signal with the recorded data and determine the channel that corresponds with the extension that was dialed.

Also similar to embodiments discussed above the replay component may be configured to dial a predetermined code to determine an extension to channel mapping. More specifically in at least one exemplary embodiment upon establishing a communications session with a desired extension the replay component may send the predetermined code to the extension for recording by the recorder . Upon recording the data the recorder may determine that the recorded data is associated with a channel mapping and send the channel and or extension to the replay component . From this data the replay component may determine the extension to channel mapping.

One should note that while the exemplary embodiments discussed above include configurations where each extension is mapped to one channel this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment an extension may be coupled to a plurality of channels and or recorded by a plurality of recorders. In such a scenario the at least one recorder may be configured to determine the extensions that are coupled to more than one channel. Additionally in configurations where the plurality of channels span a plurality of recorders at least one of the recorders and or other components may be configured to provide a mapping that includes this information. Similarly in at least one exemplary embodiment a plurality of extensions may be mapped to a single recorder and or recorder channel.

More specifically the recorder may be coupled to an extension associated with the communications device e.g. 7456 . The recorder may be coupled to an extension associated with the communications device e.g. 5000 . The recorders and may be coupled via a load balancer to an extension associated with the communications device e.g. 1234 .

In the exemplary embodiment of one or more of the recorders may be configured to facilitate an extension to channel mapping as discussed above. Additionally some embodiments may be configured such that one recorder may be configured to perform one technique of extension to channel mapping and another recorder may be configured to perform a different technique for extension to recorder mapping. Additionally depending on the particular configuration a recorder and or other component may be configured to store the determined extension to channel mapping.

One should note that while the IP network from illustrates a configuration where one or more of the recorders are configured to determine an extension to channel and recorder mapping this is a nonlimiting example as another component e.g. the load balancer the call routing component and or other component not shown may be configured to facilitate this mapping.

One should note that while the call routing component is illustrated as a single component the call routing component may depending on the particular configuration represent a Service Switching Point SSP a Signal Transfer Point STP a call control server and or other components that facilitate a communications session.

One should also note that in addition to voice and control data embodiments disclosed herein may be configured to record and or utilize screen capture data to determine an extension to channel mapping. In at least one nonlimiting example a recorder may be configured to determine whether the recorder can record screen capture data. Additionally the call routing component and or other network component may be configured to create a list of recorders in the network that are capable of recording screen capture data. This information may be used to determine whether a communication is being received at a particular recorder.

The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the recorder a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The memory component can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and or nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory component may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. One should note that some embodiments of the memory component can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in memory component may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the memory component may include an operating system mapping logic and recording logic . The operating system may be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

A system component and or module embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory component so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system .

The Input Output devices that may be coupled to system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone etc. Further the Input Output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display speaker etc. Finally the Input Output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a media duplication system a router etc.

Additionally included are one or more network interfaces for facilitating communication with one or more other devices. More specifically a network interface may include any component configured to facilitate a connection with another device. While in some embodiments among others the recorder can include a network interface that includes a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA card also abbreviated as PC card for receiving a wireless network card however this is a nonlimiting example. Other configurations can include the communications hardware within the computing device such that a wireless network card is unnecessary for communicating wirelessly. Similarly other embodiments include network interfaces for communicating via a wired connection. Such interfaces may be configured with Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces serial ports and or other interfaces.

Additionally included are one or more channels C C C C and CX which may be configured to facilitate recording of a communication. While the channels C C C C and CX may be coupled via the system I O interface s and or the network interface s this is not a requirement.

If recorder includes a personal computer workstation or the like the software in the memory component may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the operating system and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the recorder is activated.

When recorder is in operation the processor may be configured to execute software stored within the memory component to communicate data to and from the memory component and to generally control operations of the recorder pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part may be read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

One should note that while the description with respect to includes a recorder controller as a single component this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment the recorder can include a plurality of servers personal computers and or other devices. Similarly while the routing logic the recording logic and the presence logic are each illustrated in as single software components this is also a nonlimiting example. In at least one embodiment the presence logic may include one or more components embodied in software hardware and or firmware. Similarly routing logic and or the recording logic may include one or more logical components. Additionally while the routing logic the presence logic and the recording logic are depicted as residing on a single computing device such as the recorder may include one or more devices the presence logic may include one or more components residing on one or more different devices.

Similarly while the discussion with regard to refers to a recorder the above description may be applied to other components discussed herein. More specifically a call routing device a communications device a load balancer a replay component a recorder controller not shown a call control server not shown and or other components may include similar elements and or operate similarly.

While a determination can be made that the recordings and were received a C and that recordings and were received at C there may be some confusion regarding recordings and . More specifically while a determination may be made that these recordings were either received at C or C but depending on the particular configuration a definitive determination may be unreachable as to exactly when the channel change occurred. In such a scenario the mapping logic may be configured to flag these recordings as being mapped to C or C. Similarly the mapping logic may be configured to determine the appropriate mapping for these recordings using a different mapping technique such as described above.

Referring to graph channels C C and C C have been determined to have various probabilities for being coupled to this extension. Additionally C has been determined to have a much higher probability of being coupled to this extension. As C exceeds the threshold the recording logic may determine that C is coupled to this extension and map accordingly.

One should note that while the configuration of may be determined based on the probability a channel is coupled to an extension this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment the mapping logic may be configured to use a process of elimination determining which channels are not coupled to an extension to conclude which channel is coupled to an extension. More specifically in at least one exemplary embodiment if the mapping logic determines that at 12 00 on Jan. 1 2007 no call was recorded from extension 1234 at channel C the mapping logic can determine that C is not coupled to extension 1234. Similar data may be used to eliminate other channels and determine the appropriate mapping.

One should also note that while a threshold of approximately 85 is illustrated in this is also a nonlimiting example. More specifically depending on the particular configuration a user or other entity may determine an acceptable threshold . Similarly in some embodiments a threshold may be automatically set based on the particular environment.

More specifically in at least one exemplary embodiment the mapping logic can compare all data recorded by the recorder . Similarly some embodiments can utilize characteristics associated with the sent data to more quickly determine the current mapping. The characteristics may include a time that data was sent a size of data and or other characteristics.

After initiating re mapping the mapping logic can determine whether there has been a change in the current extension to channel map block . If there has not been a change in the mapping the flowchart can return to setting the timer at block . If on the other hand a change is detected at block the mapping logic can determine the type of change block . If the change includes a determination that a channel is no longer coupled to an extension or vice versa the mapping logic can map the new channel block . The mapping logic can keep the old mapping of this channel and or extension for a predetermined number of re maps or until a replacement is detected block .

More specifically if the mapping logic determines that a channel is no longer coupled to an extension the mapping logic in at least one embodiment may determine that a connection is loose or inadvertently lost and or other temporary condition that will be resolved. As such the mapping logic may keep the previously determined map for this channel and or extension for a predetermined time predetermine number of re maps and or for another duration.

If at block the mapping logic determines that there is a replacement change e.g. a new extension is coupled to a channel which replaces the previously determined extension the mapping logic can replace the old mapping with the new mapping. The mapping logic can determine whether the process is ending block and if not the flowchart returns to block to start the timer.

One should note that in at least one exemplary embodiment the recording may be stored as an audio file e.g. .wav file .mp3 file etc. and a description file e.g. .xml file .txt file etc. may be included with the audio file. The description file may include the extension and or channel information. Similarly some embodiments may include storing the recording which may include the audio file and or the description file in a folder corresponding to the extension and or channel from where the communication was received.

Referring back to the mapping logic can re map the channel block . As discussed above re mapping can occur at any number of times. The mapping logic can then determine whether there is a mapping change block . If there is not a mapping change the mapping logic can determine whether the process is ending block . If a change is detected the mapping logic can determine the nature of the change block . The mapping logic can flag recordings between mapping and re mapping as unsure but provide possible channels block . More specifically as discussed above in at least one exemplary embodiment if a change in the mappings occur the mapping logic may have uncertainty as to exactly when the change occurred and thus may have uncertainty regarding the source of one or more recordings. As such the mapping logic may be configured to flag one or more of these recordings with an uncertain flag but indicate that the mapping may have originated from an extension in accordance with the previous map or with an extension in accordance with the new map. Other embodiments are also discussed to determine the source of these recordings. The mapping logic can then determine whether the process can end block .

As discussed above when a mapping change occurs there may be uncertainty with regard to recordings that were received between the time of a previous mapping and the mapping change. As such in at least one embodiment the mapping logic may be configured to utilize a plurality of mapping techniques for determining mapping for the uncertain recordings. While illustrates utilization of the automatic call detection described above to determine mapping for the uncertain recordings it will be appreciated that other techniques may also be utilized. As a nonlimiting example in at least one exemplary embodiment when a change occurs a mapping algorithm may be utilized to work back in time to identify when the calls no longer match Computer Telephone Integration CTI data and deduct that this is when the change occurred. Other configurations may also be utilized.

It should be noted that a customer center may include but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

The embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. At least one embodiment disclosed herein is implemented in software and or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiment embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order and or not at all. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

One should also note that conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more particular embodiments or that one or more particular embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

