---

title: Cooled photocathode structure
abstract: A photocathode for an image intensifier tube includes a faceplate, a glass plate disposed opposite the faceplate, and a span having one end attached to the glass plate and the other end attached to the faceplate for forming a sealed chamber between the faceplate and the glass plate. A semiconductor layer is bonded to a surface of the glass plate, where the surface is disposed outside of the sealed chamber. The semiconductor layer forms a photocathode. A thermal electric cooler (TEC) is disposed inside the sealed chamber for cooling the photocathode. The faceplate is formed from sapphire material. The glass plate is formed from high conductivity glass. The span is formed from either high conductivity glass or low conductivity glass. The faceplate and the glass plate form a path for light to impinge upon the semiconductor layer, and the photocathode of the semiconductor layer is configured to convert the light into electrons for emission toward an electron gain device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07940005&OS=07940005&RS=07940005
owner: ITT Manufacturing Enterprises, Inc.
number: 07940005
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071108
---
The present invention relates in general to image intensifier tubes and more specifically to a photocathode structure subjected to cooling.

Night vision systems are used in a wide variety of military industrial and residential applications to enable sight in a dark environment. For example night vision systems are utilized by military aviators during nighttime flights. Security cameras use night vision systems to monitor dark areas and medical instruments use night vision systems to alleviate conditions such as retinitis pigmentosis night blindness .

Image intensifier devices are employed in night vision systems to convert a dark environment to an environment perceivable by a viewer. More specifically the image intensifier device within the night vision system collects tiny amounts of light in a dark environment including the lower portion of the infrared light spectrum present in the environment which may be imperceptible to the human eye. The device amplifies the light so that the human eye can perceive the image. The light output from the image intensifier device can either be supplied to a camera external monitor or directly to the eyes of a viewer. The image intensifier device is commonly employed in vision goggles that are worn on a user s head for transmission of the light output directly to the viewer. Accordingly since the goggles are worn on the head they are desirably compact and light weight for purposes of comfort and usability.

Image intensifier devices include three basic components mounted within a housing i.e. a photocathode commonly called a cathode a microchannel plate MCP and a phosphor screen commonly called a screen fiber optic or anode . The photocathode detects a light image and converts the light image into a corresponding electron pattern. The MCP amplifies the electron pattern and the phosphor screen transforms the amplified electron pattern back to an enhanced light image.

Referring to a current state of the art Generation III GEN III image intensifier tube is shown. Examples of the use of such a GEN III image intensifier tube in the prior art are exemplified in U.S. Pat. No. 5 029 963 to Naselli et al. entitled REPLACEMENT DEVICE FOR A DRIVER S VIEWER and U.S. Pat. No. 5 084 780 to Phillips entitled TELESCOPIC SIGHT FOR DAYLIGHT VIEWING. The GEN III image intensifier tube shown and in both cited references is of the type currently manufactured by ITT Corporation the assignee herein. In intensifier tube shown in infrared energy impinges upon photocathode . The photocathode is comprised of glass faceplate coated on one side with antireflection layer a gallium aluminum arsenide GaAlAs window layer and gallium arsenide GaAs active layer . Infrared energy is absorbed in GaAs active layer thereby resulting in the generation of electron hole pairs. The produced electrons are then emitted into vacuum housing through a negative electron affinity NEA coating present on GaAs active layer .

A microchannel plate MCP is positioned within vacuum housing adjacent NEA coating of photocathode . Conventionally MCP is made of glass having a conductive input surface and a conductive output surface . Once electrons exit photocathode the electrons are accelerated toward input surface of MCP by a difference in potential between input surface and photocathode of approximately 300 to 900 volts. As the electrons bombard input surface of MCP secondary electrons are generated within MCP . The MCP may generate several hundred electrons for each electron entering input surface . The MCP is subjected to a difference in potential between input surface and output surface which is typically about 1100 volts whereby the potential difference enables electron multiplication.

As the multiplied electrons exit MCP the electrons are accelerated through vacuum housing toward phosphor screen by a difference in potential between phosphor screen and output surface of approximately 4200 volts. As is the electrons impinge upon phosphor screen many photons are produced per electron. The photons create the output image for image intensifier tube on the output surface of optical inverter element .

Photocathode can be but is not limited to a material such as GaAs Bialkali InGaAs and the like. Photocathode includes input side and output side . MCP has a plurality of channels formed between an input surface and an output surface.

An electric biasing circuit provides a biasing current to image intensifier tube . Electric biasing circuit includes a first electrical connection and a second electrical connection . First electrical connection provides a biasing voltage between photocathode and MCP . Second electrical connection applies a biasing voltage between MCP and imaging sensor . In this configuration photocathode MCP and imaging sensor are maintained in a vacuum body or envelope as a single unit in close physical proximity to each other.

Still referring to in operation light from an image enters image intensifier tube through input side of photocathode . Photocathode changes the entering light into electrons which are output from output side of photocathode . Electrons exiting photocathode enter channels of MCP . Secondary electrons are generated within the plurality of channels of MCP . The MCP may generate several hundred electrons in each of channels for each electron entering through the input surface. Thus the number of electrons exiting channels is significantly greater than the number of electrons that entered channels . The intensified number of electrons exit channels and strike the electron receiving surface of imaging device . The imaging device transforms the electrons into a light image which may be stored in memory or viewed on display .

To meet this and other needs and in view of its purposes the present invention provides a photocathode for an image intensifier tube including a faceplate a glass plate disposed opposite the faceplate and a span having one end attached to the glass plate and the other end attached to the faceplate for forming a sealed chamber between the faceplate and the glass plate. A semiconductor layer is bonded to a surface of the glass plate where the surface is disposed outside of the sealed chamber. The semiconductor layer forms a photocathode. A thermal electric cooler TEC is disposed inside the sealed chamber for cooling the photocathode. The faceplate is an annular structure the glass plate is an annular structure and the span is an annular bracket extending between the glass plate and the faceplate for providing a separation distance between the faceplate and the glass plate. The faceplate is formed from a sapphire material or other optically transparent material of high thermal conductivity. The glass plate is formed from high conductivity glass. The span is formed from either high conductivity glass or low conductivity glass. Preferably the span is formed from low conductivity glass or other low conductivity material.

The faceplate and the glass plate form a path for light to impinge upon the semiconductor layer and the photocathode of the semiconductor layer is configured to convert the light into electrons for emission toward an electron gain device. The electron gain device is a microchannel plate MCP .

At least one cantilever bracket is attached to the glass plate at one end and forms a seat for the annular TEC at another end. The at least one cantilever bracket is formed of copper material to provide thermal conductivity between the TEC and the glass plate. The seat includes an indentation formed in the at least one cantilever bracket for receiving the annular TEC. The at least one cantilever bracket is bonded at an end to the glass plate. Standoffs are formed on top of the glass plate for providing a separation distance between the glass plate and the opposing faceplate.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a photocathode structure having a sealed chamber formed by walls a bottom wall providing an exterior surface to the sealed chamber a photocathode layer disposed on the exterior surface and a TEC disposed within the sealed chamber for cooling the photocathode layer. The TEC is in thermal contact with the photocathode layer by way of high conductivity material. The high conductivity material includes glass and at least one copper bracket attached to the glass.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention is an image intensifier tube including a photocathode structure an electron sensing device and an electron gain device disposed between the electron sensing device and the photocathode structure. The photocathode structure includes a sealed chamber formed by walls a bottom wall providing an exterior surface to the sealed chamber a photocathode layer disposed on the exterior surface and a TEC disposed within the sealed chamber for cooling the photocathode layer. The TEC is in thermal contact with the photocathode layer by way of a high conductivity material which includes glass and at least one copper bracket attached to the glass.

It is understood that the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary but are not restrictive of the invention.

The present invention provides a photocathode structure that is cooled in temperature to reduce generation of dark currents. It is known that a photocathode generates dark currents when its temperature increases during operation in an image intensifier tube or in a solid state image intensifier. The dark currents of the photocathode is temperature dependent. Lowering the temperature is one method of reducing dark currents.

Lowering the temperature however requires electrical power whose usage is preferably minimized especially during operation of a night vision goggle device. In conventional photocathodes such as shown in the entire image intensifier system is cooled by immersing the device in an exterior tube. The exterior tube results in an inefficient usage of electrical power because a large mass is required to be temperature cooled. For example the tube body the MCP and the photo anode structure are unnecessarily cooled.

As will be explained the present invention advantageously concentrates on cooling primarily only the photocathode structure. The present invention advantageously uses a vacuum formed between the photocathode structure and the MCP to obtain a high thermal resistance so that the amount of heat re entering the photocathode structure is reduced. The present invention also reduces the amount of material comprising the photocathode structure in order to reduce the number of paths for re entrant heat flowing into the photocathode structure. Furthermore the present invention replaces the reduced amount of material comprising the photocathode with a vacuum which forms a high thermal resistance.

Referring now to and there is shown a cooled photocathode structure in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. show two separate sets of components of the photocathode structure and shows an integrated and assembled photocathode structure.

Referring first to there is shown a first set of components of a photocathode structure generally designated as . The first set of components is comprised of faceplate and a thermal electric cooler TEC . The faceplate may be formed from sapphire material for example and may have an annular cross section. The top annular surface of faceplate is designated as A and the bottom annular surface is designated as B. It will be appreciated that faceplate may be formed of any material having a high thermal conductivity which for example may be greater than or equal to 33 W m k and of any material providing a transparent window for light passing from top surface A to bottom surface B.

As shown in cross section in TEC forms an annular ring. It will be appreciated however that TEC may be one or more thermal coolers soldered or fastened to bottom surface B of faceplate and does not need to be annular in shape. The one or more TECs may be attached directly to the bottom surface of faceplate using only one electrically insulating annular ceramic ring not shown .

The faceplate may include two contact ports for TEC power not shown and two contact ports for a thermistor not shown . The thermistor may be used to control the on off operation of the one or more TECs. The contact ports may be formed by drilling into faceplate . The contact ports may be formed by a recess in the bottom surface of faceplate as shown by recess in the faceplate. Of course for an annular TEC recess may also be annular to completely receive the TEC. An indium sealant may be used for sealing any openings in recessed section between the TEC and the faceplate. A high temperature solder material may also be used for assembling the TEC one or more with the faceplate.

It will be appreciated that a non evaporable getter may be placed on the bottom surface of faceplate .

Referring next to there is shown a second set of components of a photocathode structure generally designated as . The second set of components is comprised of glass plate span one or more cantilevered brackets and semiconductor layer .

The span and glass plate may be formed from one type of glass or from two types of glass. As shown in glass plate is formed as a glass disk using high conductivity glass and span is formed as an L shape using low conductivity glass. The glass plate is bonded to span forming a single U shape when viewed in cross section. As another embodiment glass plate and span may be formed from one type of glass having high or low thermal conductivity.

As an example the high conductivity glass may be BK7 having a thermal conductivity of 1.3 W m k. The low conductivity glass may have a thermal conductivity of 0.3 W m k. It is important of course that glass plate be made from glass or other material that provides a transparent window for light to pass through the glass and impinge on semiconductor layer the latter converting the light into electrons.

The semiconductor layer is bonded to glass plate for providing the photocathode transformation of light photons into electrons. The electrons of course are then provided as an input to an MCP such as MCP shown in . The semiconductor layer may include an active layer such as gallium arsenide GaAs and additional layers such as an antireflection layer a window layer of gallium aluminum arsenide GaAlAs and a negative electron affinity NEA coating disposed on the GaAs active layer as described with respect to .

It will be appreciated that after forming glass plate and span the formed glass may be ground and polished. The semiconductor layer is then bonded to glass plate . Next in a possible fabrication sequence the surface of glass plate which is opposite to semiconductor layer may be further ground and polished. The cantilevered brackets one or more may be finally attached to glass plate .

As shown in cantilevered brackets are bonded to the end disk surface of glass plate . The bonding may be performed using frit or solder for example. The cantilevered brackets may be formed of any conductive material having high thermal conductivity such as copper. The cantilevered brackets may be formed as separate sections as best shown in and attached to the disk surface of glass plate by way of a ring as shown in designated as . The ring may be formed of materials identical to cantilevered brackets . It will be understood that ring and cantilevered brackets may be a single piece of copper for example.

If made from a deformable material such as copper cantilevered brackets may be notched or recessed at their end portions to receive hold or lock TEC as shown in .

The final assembly of the first and second sets of components and into an integrated photocathode structure is shown in where the integrated photocathode structure is designated as . In preparation for assembly first set of components and second set of components may be subjected separately to a UHV ultra high vacuum process. The first set of components may undergo reduced temperature processing whereas the second set of components may be subjected to processing in a full temperature range. The reverse however may also be true.

The first and second sets of components may be press fitted during the UHV process using an indium bond to form a sealed evacuated chamber. The indium bond is designated as and the sealed chamber is designated as as shown in . Two or more standoffs A B may be provided on top of the disk end of glass plate for supporting faceplate .

The cantilevered brackets provide support for TEC as shown in . Although not shown it will be appreciated that the cantilevered brackets may be notched or recessed to receive and hold TEC in position. A bond may not be necessary to lock TEC to cantilevered brackets . During the sealing process of first and second sets of components and the cantilevered brackets may flex and take pressure away from TEC . The flexing is very noticeable when the cantilevered brackets and ring are formed from a single piece of copper.

Referring next to B and C there is shown an assembled photocathode structure . is similar to except that the photocathode structure is shown up side down. is a perspective view of photocathode structure with TEC and span not shown. is a cut away view of photocathode structure with TEC not shown.

Accordingly the present invention provides a low power method of cooling the photocathode by incorporating the TECs into a vacuum environment such as chamber . The vacuum chamber is separate from photocathode layer in order to prevent poisoning of the photocathode surface because the TEC cannot be processed at a high temperature.

Some penalty is paid by the present invention due to an increased diameter of the cathode which may be traded off between power usage versus size. In general terms photocathode structure may be sized for insertion into housing of image intensifier tube shown in . Of course photocathode structure is replaced by photocathode structure of the present invention.

It will be observed that the vacuum chamber of photocathode structure is separate from the vacuum chamber of housing in which the photocathode layer MCP and the input surface of anode reside.

Although the invention is illustrated and described herein with reference to specific embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the details shown. Rather various modifications may be made in the details within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims and without departing from the invention.

