---

title: Location bound secure domains
abstract: A method, apparatus, and electronic device with secure operation based on geography are disclosed. A positioning mechanism  may determine a geographic location of the apparatus or electronic device. A processor  may identify a secure domain for a virtual machine application. The processor  may determine an availability of an application programming interface for the virtual machine application based on the geographic location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223938&OS=09223938&RS=09223938
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09223938
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071231
---
The present invention relates to a method and system for secure operation of a virtual machine application on a mobile device. The present invention further relates to controlling access by the virtual machine application to application programming interfaces.

Java Platform Micro Edition ME is a subset of the Java specification directed towards resource constrained environments such as mobile computing devices mobile telephones handheld computers and similar portable devices. One specification for the Java ME is a mobile information device profile MIDP . A virtual machine under the MIDP for mobile computing devices referred to as a MIDlet may be downloaded onto a mobile computing device. Including a signed electronic certificate may increase the security of executing these MIDlets.

A method apparatus and electronic device with secure operation based on geography are disclosed. A positioning mechanism may determine a geographic location. A processor may identify a secure domain for a virtual machine application. The processor may determine an availability of an application programming interface for the virtual machine application based on the geographic location.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth herein.

Various embodiments of the invention are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention comprises a variety of embodiments such as a method an apparatus and an electronic device and other embodiments that relate to the basic concepts of the invention. The electronic device may be any manner of computer mobile device or wireless communication device.

A method apparatus and electronic device with secure operation based on geography are disclosed. A positioning mechanism may determine a geographic location for the apparatus or electronic device. A processor may identify a secure domain for a virtual machine application. The processor may determine an availability of an application programming interface for the virtual machine application based on the geographic location.

The handheld device may include a controller or processor that executes stored programs. The controller or processor may be any programmed processor known to one of skill in the art. However the decision support method may also be implemented on a general purpose or a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller peripheral integrated circuit elements an application specific integrated circuit or other integrated circuits hardware electronic logic circuits such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a programmable logic array field programmable gate array or the like. In general any device or devices capable of implementing the decision support method as described herein can be used to implement the decision support system functions of this invention.

The handheld device may also include a volatile memory and a nonvolatile memory to be used by the processor . The volatile and nonvolatile data memory storage may include one or more electrical magnetic or optical memories such as a random access memory RAM cache hard drive or other memory device. The memory may have a cache to speed access to specific data. The memory may also be connected to a compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital video disc read only memory DVD ROM DVD read write input tape drive or other removable memory device that allows media content to be directly uploaded into the system.

The handheld device may include a user input interface that may comprise elements such as a keypad display touch screen or any other device that accepts input. The handheld device may also include a user output device that may comprise a display screen and an audio interface that may comprise elements such as a microphone earphone and speaker. The handheld device also may include a component interface to which additional elements may be attached for example a universal serial bus USB interface or an audio video capture mechanism. Finally the handheld device may include a power supply .

Client software and databases may be accessed by the controller or processor from the memory and may include for example database applications word processing applications video processing applications as well as components that embody the decision support functionality of the present invention. The user access data may be stored in either a database accessible through a database interface or in the memory. The handheld device may implement any operating system such as Windows or UNIX for example. Client and server software may be written in any programming language such as ABAP C C Java or Visual Basic for example.

A mobile computing device MCD may download a virtual machine application to be executed on the MCD . The MCD may be running a Java Micro Edition ME with a mobile information device profile MIDP specification allowing it to use mobile information device MID virtual machine applications called MIDlets. By using electronically signed certificates with the MIDlets the MCD may be assured of a higher level of security on the machine. Unsigned MIDlets may be used but may be granted a lower level of access to various functions of the MCD .

The security of the MIDlet may be further increased by limiting the availability of a native function of the MCD to the MIDlet such as an application programming interface API . A MCD may improve security while using a MIDlet by employing a secure domain a set of permissions regarding various functions or APIs that may be assigned to a MIDlet. The secure domains may have an allowed permission granting unfettered access to an API user permission granting access upon user approval or denial barring the MIDlet from using that API. The user permissions may be set at various level of interaction modes such as blanket wherein the MIDlet has access to that API for the length of installation session wherein the MIDlet has access to that API for as long as the MIDlet is running or one shot wherein the MIDlet must ask permission for each use of the API.

The use of such a configuration may create a greater flexibility with which to use a MCD . Secure domains may be used to control the access that MIDlets downloaded onto MCD may have to various APIs. These secure domains may be expanded to take into account environmental factors. One such factor that may be used to adjust a secure domain on a continuing basis is location. Other environmental factors that may be used to determine the scope of a secure domain include communication signal strength communication signal encryption strength device temperature power level or other environmental factors that may have an effect on the security or stability of the device as the MIDlet uses the API.

A sensor may be used to determine if the correct environmental factor is present for the MIDlet to be present in the secure domain using a specified API. For example a positioning mechanism may be integrated into a MCD particularly through the component interface . illustrates in a block diagram one embodiment of a system for locating a MCD . An MCD that is in regular contact with telecommunication cells may use those cells to triangulate a position for the MCD . Additionally a global positioning system GPS locator device connected to the component interface of the MCD may connect with GPS satellites to determine a position of the MCD .

Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention may also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components and data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Although the above description may contain specific details they should not be construed as limiting the claims in any way. Other configurations of the described embodiments of the invention are part of the scope of this invention. For example the principles of the invention may be applied to each individual user where each user may individually deploy such a system. This enables each user to utilize the benefits of the invention even if any one of the large number of possible applications do not need the functionality described herein. In other words there may be multiple instances of the electronic devices each processing the content in various possible ways. It does not necessarily need to be one system used by all end users. Accordingly the appended claims and their legal equivalents should only define the invention rather than any specific examples given.

