---

title: Method and device for three-dimensional sensing
abstract: An apparatus () and method is provided that identifies and tracks a relative location and movement of an object in a three-dimensional space. The sensing unit includes a processor () for communicating a coordinate information of the object within the three-dimensional space. The method includes emitting a pulse from a first transducer (), estimating a time of flight from a reflection signal received by a second transducer (), and determining a location and relative movement of the object from the time of flight measurements. The sensing unit can provide touchless control via touchless finger depression actions, finger slide actions, finger release actions, and finger hold actions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139029&OS=08139029&RS=08139029
owner: NaviSense
number: 08139029
owner_city: Plantation
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070307
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 779 868 entitled Method and System for Three Dimensional Sensing filed Mar. 8 2006 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This application also incorporates by reference the following Applications Ser. No. 11 683 412 entitled Application Programming Interface API for Sensory Events Ser. No. 11 683 413 entitled Visual Toolkit for a Virtual User Interface Ser. No. 11 683 415 entitled Virtual User Interface Method and Device Thereof and Ser. No. 11 683 416 entitled Touchless Tablet Method and Device Thereof all filed on the same day as this Application.

The present embodiments of the invention generally relate to the field of sensory systems and more particularly to input devices.

A computer system generally includes a mouse to navigate and control a cursor on a computer display. The cursor can move in accordance with the motion of the mouse. A touchpad or stick can also be used to control the cursor on the display. The mouse touchpad and stick generally require physical movement to assume control of the cursor. A touch screen can also serve as an input device and allow a user to touch the screen for performing an input action or receiving a response. Touch screens do not generally require control of a cursor since the information is presented directly on the display. The input devices and pointing devices require some form of physical contact with the device. The device responds in accordance with physical movement placed on the device. In certain applications it may be more advantageous to interact with a computer system without resorting to physical handling of the device. For example in operating rooms it is especially important to provide sanitary conditions. A nurse practitioner or assistant may interface with a computer in the operating room and may be subject to contamination from the keyboard or the touchscreen. As another example there may be limited room for a user to use a touchpad on a laptop or a mobile device. For example business travelers may find it difficult or awkward to handle a mouse a touchpad or a stick in a confined area. A need therefore exists to provide a means of interfacing with a computer or mobile device without physically handling an input device or pointing device.

Broadly stated embodiments of the invention are directed to an apparatus and method for touchless sensing. In one arrangement the method can identify and track a relative location and movement of an object in a three dimensional space. In one arrangement the sensing unit can include members each having at least one sensing element and a controller communicatively coupled to the touchless sensing unit. The controller can communicate coordinate information of the object within a three dimensional space. In one arrangement the sensing unit can be integrated within a keyboard laptop or mobile device. The touchless sensing unit can identify and track a location and movement of an object in a sensing field or imaging field of the sensing unit.

While the specification concludes with claims defining the features of the invention that are regarded as novel it is believed that the invention will be better understood from a consideration of the following description in conjunction with the drawing figures in which like reference numerals are carried forward. As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the invention.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. The terms program software application and the like as used herein are defined as a sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system. A program computer program or software application may include a subroutine a function a procedure an object method an object implementation an executable application an applet a servlet a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library and or other sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system.

The term touchless sensing is defined as sensing movement without physically touching the object causing the movement. The term mounted is defined as a being attached to connected to part of integrated within associated with coupled to adjacent to or near. The term cursor is defined as a cursor on a display and providing control to an underlying object. The cursor can be a handle to an object in the display or a physical object remote from the display but visually controlled using the cursor on the display. The term cursor object is defined as an object that can receive coordinate information for positioning the object.

One embodiment is directed to a sensing unit that can be included within a communication device such as a laptop keyboard or a mobile device. The sensing unit can include an array of sensing elements aligned above the communication device or along a periphery of a display of the communication device for identifying and tracking two and three dimensional navigation of a finger. At least one sensing element can be embedded within a boundary of the display for providing a three dimensional sensing for determining a finger action above the communication device. A controller can be communicatively coupled to the array and the least one sensing elements for communicating a coordinate information of the finger to the laptop. In one arrangement the controller can determine an angle of the display from the arrangement of sensing elements which can be used for determining a location of the finger. The sensing unit allows a user to interact with a computer or mobile device using touchless finger actions through a virtual user interface.

Another embodiment is directed to a method for identifying and tracking a relative location and movement of an object in a three dimensional space. The method can include emitting a pulse from a first transducer estimating a time of flight between when the pulse was transmitted from the first transducer and when a reflection of the signal off an object in the three dimensional space was received from a plurality of transducers for producing multiple time of flight measurements and determining a location and relative movement of the object. In one application the object can be a finger and the method can identify and track the location and behavior of finger movement for navigating and controlling a cursor object on a display or for controlling a user interface. The method can include detecting a touchless finger depression action a touchless finger slide action a touchless finger release action and a touchless finger hold action for invoking a response on a graphical user interface.

Referring to a sensing unit is shown. The sensing unit can have three members each with a sensing element affixed to each member. For example a first member can have sensing elements a second member can have sensing elements and a third member can have sensing elements . The bottom two members and can be combined into an a common member . More than one sensing elements can be affixed to each member. In one embodiment the sensing elements can be transducers that perform both transmit and receive operations. In another embodiment the sensing elements can be imaging elements that capture an image of an object in the sensory field. In yet another embodiment the sensing elements can be optical elements that sense a change in light intensity. The sensing unit can include an illumination element for indicating to a user whether an object is in a sensing field or imaging field of the sensing unit . Multiple illumination elements can be dispersed along the sensing unit . The sensing unit can include a BlueTooth or USB connector for conveying a coordinate signal of the object in a sensing field or imaging field of the sensing unit . Alternatively the sensing unit can internally include a blue tooth connectivity for communicating information to a computer in a manner similar to the USB connectivity albeit wirelessly.

The sensing unit can connect to a communication device such as a computer keyboard or a cell phone. The sensing unit can convey coordinate information from an object within a sensory field of the sensing unit . In one arrangement the members can project radially from a center location as shown in . In this arrangement the sensing unit can include a center sensing elements . Other arrangements can place the sensing elements peripheral to a display without a need for a center transducer. The members can be spaced at approximately 120 degree angles from one another relative to the center location. In one arrangement the center sensing elements can be equidistant from each of the other sensing elements . The equidistant arrangement provides a type of mathematical symmetry which reduces a computational complexity and facilitates a tracking and detection of the sensing unit for locating an object within a sensory field. The tran sensing elements sducers can be ultrasonic transducers acoustic transducers camera elements CCD elements optical elements laser elements or any other range measurement device. The ultrasonic transducers can operate within the frequency range 20 140 KHz. Special sonic acoustic transducers may also be used to operate within the same frequency range 20 140 KHz.

The sensing unit can identify and track a relative location and movement of an object in a three dimensional space. The sensing unit can have at least two members and a controller for communicating a coordinate information of an object with a sensory field according to a behavior of the object within the three dimensional space. In one a first arrangement shown in each member can have at least one sensing elements wherein a first sensing elements a second sensing elements and a third sensing elements are spaced at approximately 120 degrees from one another with respect to the center location. The center sensing elements can be positioned at a location that is approximately equidistant from the sensing elements on each member. In another arrangement the three members are approximately in the same plane. The sensing elements can also be pointing approximately towards a common region of focus. Improved resolution and accuracy can be achieved by careful positioning and focusing of the sensing elements to a region of general object activity.

The illumination element can change behavior as a function of the finger position. For example the object causing the movement may be a finger and the behavior is a light pattern such as a changing color intensity contrast or brightness. In another example a light pattern can be a sweep of a laser element generating a pattern outlining a pattern or producing a time varying shape. The illumination element can change a color pattern as the object e.g. finger moves around within a field of view. A color pattern can have attributes such as blinking rate contrast hue intensity and color. The lighting effects e.g. attributes can change as a function of the finger position. In one arrangement the illuminating element can produce a light pattern on the finger. For example when the illuminating element is behind the keys of the keyboard and projecting a light pattern through the keys the intensity of the light pattern can be sufficient to produce a light pattern on a finger above the keyboard. Understandably the light pattern provides visual feedback to inform a user of the boundaries of control. For example the colors of the lighting pattern change as a user moves a finger within a field of view of the sensing unit . The field of view includes a plurality of boundary regions each associated with at least one color wherein the illumination element changes to a color when a finger is positioned in a boundary region.

Referring to the sensing unit is shown in an alternate arrangement. In this configuration the first member forms a tower portion and the second and third members form a base portion. A backing portion can be applied for support. Notably the three sensing elements are still located equidistant from a sensing elements at the center location. Even though the structure of the members has changed the symmetry between the sensing elements is preserved. This structure can be suitable when the sensing unit may be placed on a flat surface such as a desk of a keyboard. The symmetry also allows for three dimensional sensing of an object. Also the sensing unit is not limited to keeping the sensing elements in a symmetrical or radial arrangement. It is clearly possible to extend one of the members beyond the length of the other two members while still retaining an ability to track and detect object movement within the sensory field produced by the sensing elements. Understandably various configurations and structures of the members are possible while still retaining the symmetry of the transducer arrangements.

Referring to another arrangement is shown for the sensing unit . In this configuration the symmetry between the sensing elements has not been preserved though the device can still perform similarly. In this arrangement each member can have at least one sensing element wherein a first and a second member are spaced at approximately 90 degrees a second and third member are spaced at approximately 90 degrees and the third and the first member are spaced at approximately 180 degrees to one another. The tower can also be located to the left of the right of the sensing unit thereby producing a structure have an approximate L shape. The bottom portion consisting of sensing elements and provide for two dimensional sensing while the tower member provides a third dimension of sensing or aspect. Namely the sensing unit can determine a two dimensional coordinate using sensory information provided by the bottom unit and may rely on the tower portion to determine when an action is being taken. For example when the sensing unit is detecting movement of a finger the bottom portion can track a location and position of the finger and the tower portion can identify a finger action such as a forward push or a retracting motion.

Referring to the sensing unit is shown in the context of a display. In this arrangement the sensing unit can be coupled to the display such that a person can interact with the display through the sensing unit . The sensing unit can include a circular type shape such that a user can identify a region of touchless finger movement. The sensing unit can detect 3D movement within the circular region as well as exterior to the region. The sensing unit can perform as an input pointing device similar to a mouse a touchpad a touchscreen or a stick. Input pointing devices allow a user to interface with a computer system. For example a user can move a cursor object on the display using a standard computer mouse. Moving the mouse on a flat surface such as a desktop moves the cursor on the display in accordance with the two dimensional movement of the mouse on the desk. Similarly a touchpad allows a user to navigate a cursor within a display by moving a finger across a surface in a two dimensional field. Similarly a stick can be used like a joystick to move a cursor around on the display. These input devices are generally accompanied by a pair of buttons for performing single click double click right click and left click operations. The buttons allow the user to interact with an application once the cursor object has been positioned at a point of interest. For example a user may navigate a cursor to a hyperlink and to activate the hyperlink the user depresses a button or performs some physical action.

In the exemplary configuration of a user can perform touchless mouse behaviors by moving a finger within a sensory field of the sensing unit . For example a user can position a finger in front of the sensing unit and move the finger in a vertical and horizontal direction which the sensing unit can convert to coordinates or relative differences in motion. The sensing unit can convey the coordinates to an application running on a computer mobile device or communication system that can interpret the coordinates and perform a navigational task or specific control action. As one example a user can move a finger within the touchless sensing field to control a cursor object on a display . The sensing unit can detect forward projections and retractions and convert these finger actions to mouse commands such as single click hold scroll slide double click and release. Notably the sensing unit can detect two dimensional movement in a vertical and horizontal field as well as a third dimension in a lateral plane. Understandably finger motion in the vertical and horizontal axes can correspond to moving a cursor object in an x and y direction on the display. A finger depress action forward action or retracting can activate a mouse command such as a single click.

In one aspect the relative displacement of cursor movement can be a function of finger location. For example when a finger is within a center region of a touchless sensing field a more precise navigational control is offered. That is the cursor object responds with more sensitivity when the finger or object is within the center region . This can allow for precise movement. When the finger is farther from the center or outside the circular region the cursor response i.e. relative movement is more coarse. Accordingly a user can navigate from a coarse location to a fine location by starting from a broad outside region and moving into the center region. For example vertical and horizontal movement can correspond to X and Y cursor movement. Depth movement can correspond to resolution or speed. Resolution can be controlled by a combinational weighting of actual location and relative location. For example when the finger is positioned farther from the sensing unit more coarse movement is applied to the cursor object. As the finger moves closer to the sensing unit the coarse movement becomes finer allowing for more accurate navigation. Also broad movement can correspond to actual location information whereas focused movement can correspond to relative movement.

As an example a user may want to move the cursor to the lower right hand corner. The user can place the finger broadly away from the sensing device 3 4 inches away from the sensing unit and an actual location of the finger can be determined for example using Time of Flight measurements TOFs when the sensing elements are acoustic transducers. The TOFs can reveal the positional placement of the finger which correlates to the bottom right corner. In another arrangement when the sensing elements are optical elements a change in pixel intensity can be used to evaluate a relative displacement. For example as the object moves the pixel intensity increases or decreases in accordance with the movement. Similarly when infrared sensory or laser elements are used a change in light intensity can be evaluated to track the object movement and location. Briefly when an imaging sensor is used as a sensory element a location of the object in the imaging field can be determined through edge detection methods that identify changes in pixel intensity such as a gradient.

Regardless of the sensory element employed the sensing unit can in one example establish a base reference at the bottom corner location. As the user moves the finger closer in 1 2 inches away from the sensing unit the sensing unit uses a combination of broad location and relative displacement to update the location. If the only actual location was used the cursor object would move with the same displacement regardless of position that is the cursor object would move to the actual location that the TOF calculations predict the finger to be. However when relative movement is include additional flexibility is allowed in changing the cursor displacement sensitivity and accordingly the flexibility of user navigational control. Thus the finger starts out at a far away location and moves towards the center to gain finer cursory control. If the user wants to relocate position or the cursor the finger is retracted to a farther away location 3 4 inches from sensing unit and the sensing unit re establishes a base reference location. Again the user can move the finger closer in 0 2 inches from sensing unit to the sensing unit and the unit applies a combination of location and relative displacement to change the sensitivity of the cursor movement or touchless control. The combinational aspect of actual location and relative displacement allows for more control. In another aspect the base coordinate can be updated at one of a faster or slower time interval in accordance with the proximity of the finger to the sensing unit. Precise movement can be obtained as the relative displacement information is provided on a more timely basis.

Embodiments of the invention are not limited to controlling a cursor. A coordinate or relative coordinate can be determined for any object within the 3D sensing field or imaging field . Furthermore the touchless sensing unit can create a virtual interface for interacting with controls of a computer system or surface size limited mobile device. A coarse location of the object can be estimated using an actual estimate of the object s location using TOFs e.g. acoustic transducers or pixel intensity differences e.g. optical when the object is at a far distance from the sensing unit. The coarse location can be updated using a relative displacement of the object using phase differences for acoustic sensing or translational differences in pixels for optical sensing when the object approaches to a close distance of the sensing unit. A combinational weighting factor of the actual location and relative displacement can be employed as the object moves between the far distance and the close distance. When using acoustic sensing a phase differential can correspond to a relative displacement of the object such as measured by a differential time of flight and a TOF can correspond to an actual location of the object such as measured by a time difference between an emitted pulse and received reflection. When employing optical sensing a pixel difference can be translated to relative differences and a pixel intensity can correspond to a location. A base coordinate of the object can be referenced at an actual location when the object is at a far distance from the sensing unit and the base coordinate can be updated using the relative displacement as the object nears closer to the sensing unit.

The sensing elements affixed to the sensing unit create a three dimensional sensing field or imaging field that allows the sensing unit to identify and track a location of an object within the sensing field or imaging field. In one arrangement though not herein limited the sensing unit can use ultrasonic sensors with a processor using pulse echo detection for locating the position of an object within a sensory field of the sensing unit . The intensity and sensitivity area of the sensing field depends on the signal strength of the signals pulsed out from the transmitters and the ability of the sensing unit to resolve echo signals. In a pulse echo system a transmitter emits a high frequency and high energy pulse which may be reflected off an object. The energy decay of the pulse depends on the medium such as air or liquid and the pulse frequency. Generally a 40 120 KHz pulse frequency is suitable for air whereas much higher frequencies in the 2 GHz are suitable for liquid. It should also be noted that using low frequency pulse frequencies for short range measurements can introduce overlap in reflected signals. This can make signal detection at short ranges more complicated since the reflected signal interferes with a ring down of the transmitted signal.

In one arrangement the length of an appendage may be less than 6 8 cm with a spacing of sensing elements of approximately 4 5 cm. In such a configuration when ultrasonic sensors are used a sensor element acting as a transmit element that emits a pulse may continue to ring during a reflection and reception of the reflected signal. The ring is a residual decay of energy from emitting the pulse. For example if sensory emits a pulse which reflects off an object and the reflection signal is captured at sensor the ringing effect from sensory may overlap with the reflection signal causing distortion. The ringing effect can be suppressed in the reflected signal by subtracting the contribution of the ringing from the reflected signal.

If the object is within close proximity a reflection signal will be generated from the scattering of the high energy pulse on the object. Reflection signals will be sent back towards the sensing unit that can captured by receiver elements. Notably the signal is generally high frequency as less energy is dissipitated during transmission and reception of a high frequency pulse in air. Ultrasonic transducers and special sonic acoustic transducers are capable of operating at high frequencies such as 40 KHz for use in air mediums. In a pulse echo system a pulsed signal is transmitted towards an object and a reflection signal is identified. A time of flight measurement describes the time expiring between when the signal was emitted and when the signal was received. The symmetry of the sensing elements as shown in provides signal processing advantages when working with reflection signals having interference patterns due to ring down of a transmitter.

In addition to the controller the sensing unit can include an analog or digital chip containing a processor a converter an amplifier and a timer . The chip is not limited to these components and can contain fewer or more than the components listed. The processor determines when a movement is detected and identifies the location of an object using time of flight measurements. The converter converts acoustic signals received from one of the receivers into digital signals. The timer determines a length of time a signal pulsed from a transmitter takes to reflect off an object and be received by one of the receivers . The amplifier can amplify signals emitted or amplify signals received by the receivers. The amplifier can increase the dynamic range and the resolution of the signals. In the configuration shown the center transducer acts as an emitter and the outer sensing elements act as receivers though other arrangements for transmit and receive are herein contemplated. As one example each transducer can take a turn transmitting while the other sensing elements listen. Moreover a pattern for transmit and receive can be established based on the location and movement of the object in the sensing field or imaging field.

When ultrasonic sensors are used the processor can send a digital pulse to the emitter to generate a high frequency pulse signal. The pulse signal can be of a constant frequency or a varying frequency. In practice a simple ultrasonic transmitter produces a fixed frequency pulse with a duration corresponding to a pulse width generated by the processor . The processor can generate various pulse shapes having specific correlation properties that make it more suitable for detection. The processor can also activate a control upon detection of an activation cue. For example an activation cue can be an intentional gesture or motioning of a finger within a field of view e.g. sensory field . The sensing unit can include a controller for communicating a coordinate information of the object according to a behavior of the object within a three dimensional space.

The field of view is an approximate three dimensional region wherein a finger movement can be identified by the sensing unit . For example when the sensing unit is an sensing unit that emits a high energy pulse the field of view corresponds to that region within which a reflected high energy pulse can be detected. The field of view can be a function of the emitted pulse strength and the range e.g. distance . For example an sensing unit positioned in a corner of a display or atop a keyboard may only need a range corresponding to the maximum extent of the finger. When the sensing unit is an imaging system e.g. cameras CCDs lasers infrared the imaging field is a function of the illumination intensity and the light reflection. For example the sensing unit can be an arrangement of imaging elements such as CCD elements MEMS microphones video recorders or the like. The imaging elements can capture images of the finger movement and pattern recognition techniques can identify movement of the finger based on common edge detection techniques. A location of the object can be identified by identifying an intersection of edges at a location of strongest pixel intensity.

The sensing unit can be positioned above the keyboard within a mouse within a display projecting approximately in a direction of finger movement or peripheral to a display of a mobile device. In general a user typing at a keyboard can extend and move the finger within a maximum range of finger motion approximated by a spherical radius under 10 to 12 inches. For example in acoustic sensing the field is a function of the emitter strength and reflection. In imaging the imaging field is a function of the illumination and reflection intensity. The user can move the finger within the field of view without moving the hands away from a normal typing position. The timer determines a time window for which an activation cue such as the positioning of a finger is considered. For example when a user intentionally places a finger directly above the sensing element for 1 second the sensing unit and the timer together identify the position of the finger as a signal to commence a control such as the enabling of a navigational control to move a cursor on the display . For example a control can also include a single click double click hold or scroll.

Briefly in one arrangement the sensing unit can sense finger movement within a sensory field to control a cursor object on a display . The sensing unit can detect finger movement without the user having to manually control an input pointing device such as a mouse a stick a touchpad or having a physical apparatus connected to the user. The sensing unit maps finger motion or hand motion to a coordinate signal for controlling movement of a second object. For example a user controls a cursor using the sensing unit to interact with a computer application for performing tasks such as text editing web browsing checking email messaging code programming playing a game or the like. In a particular example the user controls a cursor within a text processing application such as to identify where text can be entered and displayed e.g. cut and paste .

In another example the user can control an object displayed within a program application such as a control in a user interface. The object can be local to the program application or can be an object outside of the program application. For example the user can control an object such as a radio controlled car a model airplane or any other such device capable of receiving coordinate information for moving the object. The sensing unit can be used to control objects in gaming mobile device systems multimedia rendering engines visual rotation systems painting applications simulation media control automotive applications adjusting audio controls adjusting multimedia controls and the like.

The operative aspects of the embodiments of the invention are described herein primarily in the context of moving a cursor object or controlling a user interface component through sensory detection using acoustic or image based techniques. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill however that the invention applies equally well with other devices. For example the control can be provided using a microphone array system a beamforming array a three dimensional imaging system or a laser system for acquiring finger movement and a finger location.

Embodiments of the invention also provide a method to enable and disable a control mechanism associated with controlling movement of the object i.e. for example a navigational control for moving a cursor object. In one embodiment the sensor system is an sensing unit for moving a cursor on a computer display. The sensing unit converts motion into coordinate signals that are input to a computer for moving a cursor. The sensing unit uses ultrasonic sensing technology to capture coordinate information using time of flight measurements of ultrasonic signals. The coordinate information can be input to a computer or other device capable of controlling a cursor object to control or navigate the cursor object around the screen. The user raises a finger above a keyboard and the ultrasonic sensor unit senses the finger motion and moves the cursor object in accordance with the finger movement.

As already presented the sensing unit can include at least one transmitter and at least two receivers for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic signals. The transmitter and emitter can be the same for providing dual transmit and receive functions. In another arrangement the sensing element can be an array of micro acoustic microphones or micro speakers for transmitting and receiving audio signals. In another arrangement the sensing element can be CCD camera elements or MEMS camera elements for receiving light. In the case of using ultrasonic sensing elements the sensing unit employs pulse echo detection to estimate a range and position of an object within view of the sensing elements. A transmitter in the sensing unit emits a pulse shaped signal that reflects off an object which is detected by a receiver element in the sensing unit. The receiver element is coupled with a detector that detects a signal reflected off an object as part of the motion detection logic in the sensing unit. The detector can include additional processing logic such as thresholds comparators logic gates clocks and the like for detecting an object s motion. The sensing unit calculates a position of the object causing the reflection by solving a set of geometric equations.

A single transmit and receive element pair along a same plane in the sensing unit calculates a first range e.g. distance of an object in the field of view. A first transmit and receive pair on an x axis can estimates a longitudinal range of the object e.g. finger . A second pair arranged separately from the first pair estimate a second range. The second pair estimates a latitudinal range of the object e.g. finger . Accordingly the two range measurements establish a position e.g. location of the object causing the signal reflection by mathematically combining the geometrically related range measurements. For example the first range measurement establishes a x coordinate and the second range measurement establishes a y coordinate. The location of the object is then determined to correspond to the point x y in a single plane. For example the plane will be oriented in the direction of the first and second paired ultrasonic elements. Accordingly a third pair can produce a range measurement in a third direction thereby establishing a three dimensional coordinate system x y z if the first second and third range measurement projections are orthogonal to one another.

In particular the sensing unit having the arrangement shown in provides symmetrical properties for accurately identifying the location and relative movement of an object. Namely a time of flight associated with a first transmit and receive pair produce a complex surface wherein a location of the object can be anywhere along the complex surface. That is a single time of flight measurement produces a locus of points in a three dimensional space that describe a possible location of the object producing the time of flight. When a second transmit and receive pair is included a second complex surface can be generated wherein a location of the object can be anywhere along the second complex surface. Based on the symmetrical location of the transmitters the two complex surfaces can produce a parabolic intersection curve wherein the object can be anywhere along the parabolic curve. Notably the location of the object has been reduced from finding the location of the object on two complex surfaces to finding the location of the object on a parabolic curve. When a third transmit and receive pair is included in a symmetrical arrangement a third complex surface can be generated wherein a location of the object can be anywhere along the surface of the third complex surface. A location of the object can be determined by identifying the intersection point between the parabolic surface generated by the intersection of the first and second complex surface with the third complex surface. The location of the object can be uniquely specified by calculating the intersection of the three complex surfaces.

Accordingly a relative movement of the object can be determined by calculating the relative changes in TOFs from each of the transmit receive pairs. Changes in TOFs can be directly used to look up a corresponding change in relative position. Changes in TOFs alone can be used to determine relative changes along the principal axes in the three dimensional space. Notably as more transmit receive pairs are added the number of complex surfaces increases thereby providing redundancy as to the location and movement of the object in three dimensional space. The intersection can be calculated by projecting one complex surface onto another complex surface. A gradient descent approach or steepest descent can be used to solve for the local and global minima. Other iterative numerical solutions also exist for calculating the maximum likelihood point of the object. Multiple pulse echo time of flight measurements can be captured for smoothing out the trajectory of the object in addition to an averaging of the location of the object. Also the pulse echo principles are not limited to using the center transducer as the emitter and the outer sensing elements as the receivers . Each of the outer sensing elements can also be pulsed as emitter elements. That is the sensing unit can calculate a first set of time of flight TOF measurements using the transducer as the emitter can calculate a second set of TOFs using the transducer as the emitter and so on wherein each transducer is used as an emitter. Notably the TOFs can be averaged over time to smooth out discontinuities in the measurements.

In one arrangement a first ultrasonic signal can be emitted from a first transducer from a first direction at a first time. A first and second reflection of the ultrasonic signal off the finger from the first direction can be detected by a plurality of ultrasonic transducers. A location of the finger can be determined from time of flight TOF measurements calculated at each transmit receive pair. The steps of emitting detecting and determining a TOF for multiple directions at multiple times for generating a plurality of finger locations can be repeated. In one aspect a set of possible finger locations can be determined from the plurality of transmit receive pairs. The set of finger locations can be correlated to determine a finger position having a highest likelihood of producing the reflections from the multiple directions.

For example a first TOF and a first phase differential can be calculated between a signal emitted at a first time and a reflected signal detected at a first sensor. A second TOF and a second phase differential can be calculated between the signal emitted at the first time and a reflected signal detected at a second sensor. A third TOF and a third phase differential can be calculated between the signal emitted at the first time and a reflected signal detected at a third sensor. The calculations can occur in parallel to speed up computation time and the TOF and differentials can be calculated as they are received. Accordingly a first estimate of a location of the object from the first TOF can be calculated a second estimate of a location of the object from the second TOF can be calculated and a third estimate of a location of the object from the third TOF can be calculated. At least three complex surfaces can be created as a function of the first second and third estimate of a location. An intersection of the at least three complex surfaces can be determined which can correspond to a coarse location of said object. The first second and third phase differential can be applied to the estimated location for updating the coarse location to a fine location of the object. In one aspect the TOFs can be weighted by a phase differential. In one arrangement for refining the trajectory of the object s movement a history of the TOFs and the phase differentials can be tracked for predicting an error estimate wherein the error estimate is used to produce the fine location of the object. Referring to the processor can perform all the calculations and computations aforementioned.

The processor can also perform a fast Fourier transform FFT analysis tuned to a frequency of an emitted signal for estimating the time of flight. A bandpass filter centered around the center frequency of the emitter can be applied to suppress out of band noise. Understandably the reflected signal will have significant energy within the bandwidth of the emitted signal. For example a 40 KHz emitter will emit pulses at 40 KHz wherein most of the signal energy lies. The bandpass filter can be an IIR filter using time samples or it can be implemented as a point wise multiplication in the spectral domain. A threshold detector within the emitter bandwidth can be applied to determine a time when a reflected signal is detected. Understandably a reflected signal will generate sufficient energy when the tap length or the FFT analysis length sufficiently centers the reflection signal. When the energy within the 40 KHz bandwidth exceeds a threshold a TOF can be measured. A phase differential can be calculated with reference to a previously stored time domain reflected signal. Understandably to calculate a phase differential information from a previous reflection needs to be saved to compare the differences between a first time and a second time. The phase differential can be calculated as a sample delay in the time domain or a phase change in the frequency domain.

The sensing unit can contain multiple sensing elements positioned and arranged in various configurations for receiving range measurements in varying directions for calculating the position of the object causing the reflection using multi path signal processing techniques. The sensing unit is not limited to only three sensors which are provided as example. The paired transmit and receive elements can be on a same principal axis or a different principal axis. The sensing unit can also employ beamforming techniques and pattern recognition techniques for estimating the objects location. The sensing unit additionally produces differential coordinate signals for satisfying the input signal requirements of a USB or BlueTooth mouse input device connection interface. Notably a computer mouse generally uses a USB or BlueTooth device driver for receiving differential signals for moving a cursor along each principal axis of the computer coordinate system. The sensing unit produces differential signal for each principal axis to comply with the requirements of the USB or BlueTooth mouse device driver interface.

Referring to the sensing unit can be mounted to the keyboard within proximity to a region of finger movement. Notably the sensing unit is positioned to detect and track finger movement above the keyboard without requiring a user to move their hands away from the keyboard. In another arrangement shown in the sensing unit can be integrated within a mobile device for providing a virtual user interface to the mobile device. The sensing unit can estimate the angle of the display of the mobile device by measuring a time of flight from the transducer . In one aspect the controller can estimate the TOF for a pulse sent received by the transducer with respect to the sensing unit . The TOF between the transducer and sensing unit reveals the angle of the display with respect to the sensing unit . The angle can be used to determine an intersection point of complex surfaces used for determining a location of the finger in the sensing space. In yet another arrangement as shown in the sensing unit can be integrated or mounted to a laptop. The sensing unit can be positioned above the function keys of the keyboard or on the bottom of a display dangling below the display or within a mouse. The sensing unit in the laptop can include an array of sensing elements aligned above the laptop keyboard for identifying and tracking two dimensional navigation of a finger above the keyboard. Another transducer can be positioned within a boundary of the display for providing a three dimensional sensing for determining a finger action above the keyboard. The transducer within the laptop can send or receive a direct signal pulse from one of the sensing elements along the keyboard for determining an angle of the display. Notably the laptop display may be at any angle between 0 and 180 degrees set by the user. In determining a location of finger movement above the keyboard it is necessary to know where the sensing elements are located relative to one another. By knowing the laptop display angle the sensing unit can adjust for determining the location of the finger above the keyboard. A TOF can be evaluated and based on the fixed location of the sensing elements on the keyboard a location of the sensing elements relative to one another can be determined for calibrating the detection logic of the processor.

In these arrangements a user can navigate a cursor on a display without moving the user s hands from a normal typing position and control commands on the cursor such as mouse behaviors. For example the user can sign to the sensing unit by raising a finger from a normal typing position without necessarily having to move the wrists or the arms. A configuration of the sensing system is briefly discussed for purposes of enabling one particular embodiment of the invention. Notably the embodiments of the invention can be practiced using other motion detection systems such as cameras infrared optical touchpad joysticks and haptic devices.

Alternatively the sensing unit can rest on a desk pointing upwards towards the user. The user can place a hand over the sensing unit and interface with a software application on the display. The sensing unit can interface to a computer for controlling a software application on the display. In another embodiment the sensing unit can interface directly with the display and provide the graphics. When the hand is moving in the visual field of the sensing unit the sensing unit can submit positional information to the computer for controlling a cursor object on the display or for interacting with a software application on the display . Most touchscreen applications do not require control of a cursor object. A user can interact with the sensing unit in much the same way as a touch screen. The user positions the hand in front of the sensing unit and points a finger to move in directions similar to movement associated with using a touchscreen. The user can select an action by a depressing action similar to the pushing action of a touchpad. The user can navigate the pointing finger in air and project the finger forward in the direction of the sensing unit to signify a depressing action.

The sensing unit can be mounted to the keyboard as illustrated in proximal to a range of finger movement. In another arrangement shown in the sensing unit can attach to or dangle from a display . In yet another arrangement as shown in the sensing unit can be integrated or mounted to a laptop. The sensing unit can be positioned between the numeric keys and the function keys on the keyboard just above the function keys of the keyboard or on the bottom of a display dangling below the display or within a mouse. The user can navigate a cursor on a display without moving the user s hands from a normal typing position and control commands on the cursor such as mouse behaviors. For example the user can sign to the sensing unit by raising a finger from a normal typing position without necessarily having to move the wrists or the arms. A configuration of the sensing system is briefly discussed for purposes of enabling one particular embodiment of the invention. Notably the embodiments of the invention can be practiced using other motion detection systems such as cameras infrared optical touchpad joysticks and hap tic devices.

During normal typing movement from the perspective of the sensing unit receiving reflected signals when multiple fingers are moving the sensing unit sees incoherent movement. When the user is typing signals are reflected off the moving fingers causing interference patterns within the sensing unit . Accordingly to mitigate the interference the processor determines which movements are coherent and which movements are non coherent. For example when the user signals an activation cue to the computer the user ceases typing and raises a single finger that may be generally swept in a slowly and continuous time varying manner in comparison to normal typing motion where all fingers are moving. The processor identifies coherent motion as an indication by the user that the user is signaling a command to the computer. The detector also determines a completion of a finger motion when movement has ceased or when non coherent motion resumes. Accordingly the timer sets a time window for capturing a sign. For example during normal typing the fingers are moving in non coherent motion. The user stops typing and raises a solitary finger and moves the finger in a pattern. The detector senses the coherent and continuous motion and the timer sets a time window for capturing the activation cue. The sensing unit can identify a movement if the finger is within a field of range and the processor can indicate a detection. The indication can be a visual prompt or an audio prompt. Accordingly the processor coordinates the activities associated with capturing the signal reflections interpreting the range measurements for coherence and setting the time expiration.

Referring back to the sensing unit determines a location of the finger using time of flight measurement. The detector identifies whether the location of the finger is within a first boundary regions or band or outside a second boundary region or band for activating a control. When the finger is actively navigating the mouse within the field of view the processor also identifies mouse behavior actions the user initiates. Understandably the user generally moves the cursor to perform some sort of action such as minimizing a window sending an email typing a message opening a web page and such. In practice the user hits a mouse button touchpad or key to invoke a mouse behavior for accomplishing the action when the cursor is overlaid at the requested action point. The mouse behavior can be one of a single click a double click a scroll a hold or a button press. Accordingly the processor keeps track of such information for identifying whether the user has performed a mouse behavior within the field of view. The processor can extend the field of view to a greater radius when the processor determines prolonged active movement within the field of view. The processor adjusting a sensitivity based on a position of the finger and a time length of the finger at a position. Adjusting the sensitivity changes a field of view. In one example the processor increases the transmit pulse intensity to broaden the field of view. Accordingly the processor decreases the transmit pulse intensity to lessen the field of view. The processor can also change the sensitivity in software to expand or shrinking the field of view. For example the processor adjusts a sensitivity by linearly increasing the time of flight value corresponding to the locus of points along the boundary for extending the boundaries. Notably the processor decreases the boundaries by decreasing the time of flight values associated with the boundary.

Embodiments of the invention also concern a method for identifying and tracking a relative location and movement of an object in a three dimensional space. The method can include emitting a pulse from a first transducer estimating a time of flight and determining a location and relative movement of the object from the time of flight measurements. A time of flight TOF can be estimated between when the pulse was transmitted from a transducer and when a reflection of the signal off an object in the three dimensional space was received from a plurality of sensing elements for producing multiple time of flight measurements. In one aspect the first transducer can be positioned at a location equidistant from the plurality of other sensing elements. The method can further include converting the location and relative movement to a coordinate object and conveying the coordinate object to a program for controlling a visual application. For example the sensing unit of can emit a pulse from and estimate a TOF from each of the receivers 

A location and relative movement can be determined by creating a complex surface projection from said time of flight measurements identifying an intersection between said complex surface projections and identifying a global minimum of the intersection. The processor can identify a local minimum from the intersection of a multiple number of complex surfaces wherein the number of complex surfaces depends on the number of estimated TOFs. That is each TOF can produce a complex surface. This can include a gradient search or a method of steepest decent. The processor can identify a location and a movement of the object within the sensory field by directly evaluating changes in TOFs through a look up process. The location and relative movement of the object can be converted to a coordinate signal such as a Cartesian coordinate a polar coordinate or a vector. The controller can convey the coordinate information to the BlueTooth or USB device to move a cursor object on a display. In one aspect the controller can be a mouse tablet or touchscreen device driver. The coordinate object can be converted to one of a BlueTooth and USB format for communicating control information to an application. For example the coordinate information controls a cursor object on a display.

In one aspect the method is directed to tracking a finger within a three dimensional space detecting a finger action within the three dimensional space and performing a user interface command in response to the finger action. This can include determining a length of time a finger stays at a current location determining if a finger returns to a previous location within a time frame and determining a distance of movement of said finger within a time frame. The timer within the sensing unit estimates the time frames and the processor performs an action if the length of time exceeds a threshold. For example a user may issue a finger depress action. The action begins at a first point moves to a second point and returns to the first point. The processor and the timer can together determine whether a finger depress action is issued by evaluating location and time differences between detected locations.

Notably the method includes determining a single finger push action within the sensory field for identifying a mouse single click action determining a double finger push action within the sensory field for identifying a mouse double click action determining a finger push slide action within the sensory field for identifying a mouse click and drag action determining a finger slide release action within the sensory field for identifying a mouse drag and release action and determining a finger push slide release action within the sensory field for identifying a mouse click drag release action. The aforementioned steps satisfy detecting a touchless finger depression action a touchless finger slide action a touchless finger release action and a touchless finger hold action for invoking a response on a graphical user interface.

The present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention also may be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

This invention may be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

