---

title: Apparatus and method for performing analyses on data derived from a web-based search engine
abstract: A computer-implemented method of performing analysis (such as patent analysis) on data derived from a web-based search engine pursuant to a search query includes in one embodiment causing display, in a first element of a patent analytics web page, in a digital computing device, of search results content served by the search engine. The embodiment further includes, in a first computer process, analyzing data associated with the search results content according to criteria (which optionally may be specified by a user when specifying the search query) to produce analysis results and in a second computer process, causing display of the analysis results. A related apparatus is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316001&OS=08316001&RS=08316001
owner: IPVision, Inc.
number: 08316001
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070718
---
This application is a continuation in part of each of the following U.S. patent applications application Ser. Nos. 11 096 562 11 096 563 11 097 432 11 096 931 11 096 905 11 096 914 11 096 902 11 096 371 11 097 569 11 096 564 11 097 431 11 097 571 11 097 570 11 096 386 11 096 561 all such applications filed Apr. 1 2005. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 624 918 filed Jul. 22 2003 which claims priority from provisional application Ser. No. 60 397 542 filed Jul. 22 2002 and of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 532 092 filed Sep. 14 2006. Each of the patent applications identified in this paragraph has one or more inventors in common with the inventors herein and is also hereby incorporated herein by reference. In addition each of U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 171 405 and 6 604 114 which have one or more inventors in common with the inventors herein is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to web based search engines and more particularly to apparatus and methods for performing analyses on data derived from a web based search engine.

It is known in the prior art to utilize web based search engines to access information. Web search engines such as Google and Yahoo have traditionally focused in the area of generalized search of websites and other content on the internet typically for consumers and businesses looking for information on the World Wide Web. The strengths of such leading search engines include 

the fact that there is usually something of relevance interest to the user in the search result list returned.

Limitations of Generalized Web Search Engines. Google is one of the leading web search sites and for this discussion we will discuss Google as being representative of what search sites do and do not do well. For generalized search for access to websites and information on the WWW it is not necessary that the Google search return all relevant information only enough hits that are relevant to the user. It is also not necessary for the user to be able to store the results list for further access you can always fire off another Google search or to retrieve a specific list in order to do further analysis.

Because Google usually returns something of relevance it is rare that a user will look beyond the few pages of search results. In fact in many cases the user does not go past the first page and often the top few entries on the first page are good enough for casual use. This approach limits the universe of information which is practically available to the Google search user.

Specialized Search Engines. Google has introduced more specialized databases in recent years. For example 

In one embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method of performing patent analysis on data derived from a web based search engine. In this embodiment the method includes receiving a patent search query at a web based search engine and operating the web based search engine to make search results content available in response to the search query. The method of this embodiment also includes analyzing data associated with the search results content in a computer process according to criteria specified by a user when specifying the search query to produce analysis results. Finally the method includes causing display in a client digital computing device of a web page in which the search results content is one element and the analysis results are another element. In a related embodiment analyzing data associated with the search results content includes serving a web page including both the search results content and analysis computer code to the digital computing device wherein the digital computing device is running a browser application that runs the analysis computer code to produce the analysis results and that displays the analysis results.

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method of performing patent analysis on data derived from a web based search engine pursuant to a search query. In this embodiment the method includes causing display in a first element of a patent analytics web page in a digital computing device of search results content served by the search engine. In addition the embodiment includes in a first computer process analyzing data associated with the search results content according to criteria specified by a user when specifying the search query to produce analysis results and in a second computer process causing display of the analysis results.

In a further related embodiment the method additionally includes in a third computer process causing display of advertisements based on the analysis results. Alternatively or in addition the method includes in a third computer process causing display of advertisements based on at least one item included in at least one of the analysis results and the search results content. In another related embodiment analyzing data in the first computer process includes analyzing data in the digital computing device and causing display in the second computer process of the analysis results includes causing display of the analysis results in the digital computing device. Alternatively or in addition analyzing data in the first computer process includes running in the digital computing device a script that has been embedded in the patent analytics web page. Optionally causing display of the analysis results includes causing display of the analysis results in a second element of the patent analytics page. Optionally the specified criteria include a histogram analysis of frequency of occurrence of an attribute of patents identified in the search results web page.

Optionally the histogram analysis is selectable from among attributes including assignees current assignees and inventors of the patents. In another related embodiment the specified criteria include a visual representation of a set of attributes of patents identified in the search results content. The visual representation may be a patent map or alternatively may be of locations on a geographic map associated with an attribute of the patents identified in the search results content. The locations associated with the attribute in turn may be addresses of inventors of the patents identified in the search results content or business addresses of assignees of the patents identified in the search results content.

The locations may be identified by locator icons wherein a locator icon characteristic selected from the group including icon selection color size appearance and shape indicates an attribute of the patents identified in the search results content. For example addresses of all inventors listed in such patents and having a common assignee may be indicated on the geographic map by a locator icon having a common icon characteristic. More particularly addresses of all inventors or assignees listed in such patents and having only expired patents may be indicated on the geographic map by a locator icon having a common icon characteristic. As another example the address of each inventor or assignee listed in such patents and holding a plurality of patents may be indicated on the geographic map by a locator icon having a size that is a function of the number of patents held by such inventor or assignee. As yet another example the address of each inventor or assignee listed in such patents may be indicated on the geographic map by a locator icon having a size that is a function of the imputed importance of patents held by such inventor or assignee.

In the foregoing embodiments involving the display of a patent map the patent map may include lines indicating prior art citations. In a further related embodiment the patent map is an interconnection map.

Any of the foregoing embodiments may provide user interactivity by further including in a third computer process responding to a user s graphical selection of an item in the second element by graphically identifying patents in the first element pertaining to such item.

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method of performing an analysis on data from a web based search engine. In this embodiment the method includes receiving over a network in a digital computing device from the web based search engine a web page having content responsive to a query such web page including analysis computer code executable by the digital computing device that performs the analysis displaying the web page using a browser running in the digital computing device and in displaying the web page also running the analysis computer code in the browser of the digital computing device to perform the analysis so as to produce analysis results and displaying the analysis results using the browser. In a further related embodiment the analysis is of a type that is specified by a user when specifying the query and wherein receiving over the network the web page includes receiving a web page having code that performs the specified type of analysis and running the computer code includes running code to perform the specified type of analysis. Alternatively or in addition the method may include causing display of advertisements based on the analysis results. Alternatively or in addition the method may include causing display of advertisements based on at least one item included in at least one of the analysis results and the search results content.

In another related embodiment receiving the web page includes receiving the web page from an analysis server that acts as a proxy for the web based search engine to obtain the content from the search engine and to cause inclusion of the code into the web page. Alternatively receiving the web page includes receiving the web page directly from the web based search engine such search engine causing inclusion of the code into the web page.

In a further related embodiment the analysis computer code includes computer code to receive and respond to a request for further analysis of the content. In this embodiment the method further includes in response to a user request for a further analysis of the content running the analysis computer code in the browser of the digital computing device to cause the further analysis of the content and the display of the further analysis. Optionally running the analysis computer code to cause the further analysis of the content includes issuing a request to a server for additional computer code receiving from the server a web page including the additional computer code responsive to the request and running the additional computer code in the browser in performing the further analysis. Alternatively or in addition running the analysis computer code to cause the further analysis of the content includes issuing a request to a server for additional data receiving from the server a web page including the additional data responsive to the request and using the additional data in the browser in performing the further analysis.

In various embodiments the method may additionally include displaying the analysis results simultaneously with the web page. Optionally the method may include displaying the analysis results and the web page as elements of an analysis web page. In a further related embodiment the method includes in response to a user s graphical selection of an item in the analysis results running the analysis computer code to cause graphical identification of search results corresponding to such item. In yet another further embodiment receiving the web page includes receiving the web page from an analysis server that acts as a proxy for the web based search engine to obtain the content from the search engine and causes inclusion of the code into the web page. Optionally the method further includes displaying the analysis results simultaneously with the web page as elements of the analysis page. Also optionally the method further includes using the computer code to issue a request for information supplementary to the content of the web page for use in performing the analysis a further related embodiment includes directing the request to the analysis server. Also in further related embodiments the web based search engine identifies patents in response to the query and the analysis is of the patents identified in response to the query.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides an apparatus for performing an analysis on data from a web based search engine. In this embodiment the apparatus includes a digital computing device. The digital computing device is in communication over a network with the web based search engine and is running a browser application operating in response to a web page having content received from the search engine responsive to the query. Moreover the browser application is running analysis code in the web page that performs the analysis to produce analysis results and the browser application causes display of the web page in the digital computing device.

In a related embodiment the apparatus is for performing a type of analysis specified when the query is specified and the browser application is running code that performs the specified type of analysis. Optionally the analysis computer code includes computer code to receive and respond to a request for further analysis of the content and to cause the further analysis of the content and the display of the further analysis. In a further related embodiment the analysis computer code includes computer code to cause issuance of a request to a server for additional computer code such additional computer code on being run in the browser application on receipt from the server of a web page responsive to the request causing performance of the further analysis. Alternatively or in addition the analysis computer code includes computer code to cause issuance of a request to a server for additional data such additional data on becoming available on receipt from the server of a web page responsive to the request being used by the analysis code in performing the further analysis.

Also optionally the digital computing device is in communication with the web based search engine through an analysis engine that acts as a proxy for the digital computing device in communicating with the search engine to obtain the content from the search engine and to cause inclusion of the analysis computer code into the web page. Optionally the web based search engine identifies patents in response to the query and the analysis is of the patents identified in response to the query.

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method of performing an analysis on data from a web based search engine. The method of this embodiment includes receiving over a network in a digital computing device from the web based search engine a web page having search results content responsive to a query. Such content includes persons identified in relation items of content. The embodiment also includes analyzing the search results content so as to produce analysis results that include locations associated with the identified persons and displaying the locations on a geographic map as an element of a web page that also includes as an element thereof the search results content. In a further related embodiment the locations are identified by locator icons and a locator icon characteristic selected from the group including icon selection color size appearance and shape indicates an attribute of items of content identified in the search results content. In yet a further related embodiment the items of content are patents.

Definitions. As used in this description and the accompanying claims the following terms shall have the meanings indicated unless the context otherwise requires 

A computer process is any procedure or collection of procedures carried out by a digital computing device and is not limited to a particular thread in an application.

A digital computing device is a device having a central computing unit CPU an associated random access memory RAM and a display that is capable of displaying a web page as defined herein and running a process such as an applet or JavaScript associated with the web page. A digital computing device includes a digital computer system with a browser application capable of executing an applet or JavaScript as well as other internet capable devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA and an internet capable mobile telephone that can execute an applet or JavaScript.

A person is a natural person or a juridical person and therefore includes but is not limited to an individual a corporation a partnership a limited liability company a public agency and a state or political subdivision thereof.

A web page is a digitally encoded visual representation that is displayable on a computing device using a browser application. A web page may for example be defined by HTML or Flash but other digitally encoded visual representations may also be employed. A web page may but need not be delivered over the World Wide Web. A web page may include code executable in a browser application that performs functions other than displaying a visual representation. Our definition of web page herein expands on a more conventional understanding of this term.

We provide herein a description of an embodiment sometimes called herein IPVision Tools for Google Patent Search that integrates the Google Patent Search website with tools for the analysis and display of patent information found through use of the Google Patent Search website. Although these features are presented in the specific context of patents and the Google Patent Search website the reader can appreciate that they have a much broader set of uses with other data and areas.

The IPVision Tools for Google Patent Search uses a server that causes display of a patent analytics web page that in turn includes in an element the search web pages served by the Google Patent search engine. illustrates an embodiment herein wherein a patent analytics web page displays in an element search web pages served by the Google Patent search engine.

As described in detail below the search web pages served by the Google Patent search engine and caused to be displayed in the element include a search results web page. In one embodiment scripts associated with the patent analytics web page extract relevant data from the search results web page feed it to the patent analytics server to produce analysis results according to criteria that may be specified by the user when specifying the query and to cause display of the analysis results in a second element of the patent analytics web page.

The specified criteria for handling data from the search results output of the Google Patent search engine are provided via a toolbar in the patent analytics web page. illustrates a toolbar in the patent analytics web page for specifying criteria for handling data from the search results output of the Google Patent search engine. shows detail of the toolbar of and the criteria that may be specified. It can be seen that the user may specify the Number of Patents to Analyze and the Analysis Type . In the latter category the type of analysis may be by Agent Assignees Current Assignees Examiner Inventors Application Date Issue Date US Main Class or US Class Pair. In addition to specifying criteria for handling data from the search results output of the Google Patent search engine the user may specify the Type of Search Basic or Advanced to be performed by the Google Patent search engine itself the designation of Type of Search is handed off as an input to the Google Patent search engine to cause appropriate triggering of its Basic or Advanced search capability.

After specifying the criteria for handling data from the search results output and the type of Google search to be conducted the user enters the search terms in the Google Patent Search element and clicks the Search Patents button. shows the patent analytics web page resulting from conducting a search using the tools of though . The Google Patent search engine returns a search results web page listing patents and this page is caused to be displayed as an element in the patent analytics web page. Simultaneously relevant data from the search results web page are fed to the patent analytics server to produce analysis results according to the specified criteria and to cause display of the analysis results in a second element of the patent analytics web page. Accordingly a first element of the patent analytics web page shows the Google Patent search engine results and a second element here displayed to the right of the first element shows the analysis results. In this example the analysis is by assignee and different assignees and their frequency of occurrence are listed in the second element.

As shown in Right Clicking on an Assignee name provides the user with the opportunity to launch either a Hoovers or Google Directory search for the selected Assignee.

As discussed concern the Assignee Analysis selection item in the IPVision Toolbar. The user can specify other types of analyses to be performed on the patent list returned by Google Patent Search. We describe these types in further detail. Agent Analysis sorts the patents by the Patent Agent or Attorney who wrote the patent. Assignee Analysis sorts the patents by the Assignee listed on the Front Page of the patent when it issued. Current Assignee Analysis sorts the patents by the Current Assignee as recorded at the USPTO Assignment Database. An Examiner Analysis sorts the patents by the USPTO Examiner who reviewed the patent.

An Inventor Analysis sorts the patents by the Inventors listed on the patents. In the case of joint inventors the patent will be listed under both names. shows details of the analysis results element of when an inventor analysis has been specified. As indicated Right Clicking on an Inventor Name permits invoking a Google Scholar search for that Inventor.

An Application Date Analysis sorts the patents by the US patent application filing date as shown on the Front Page of the issued patent. An Issue Date Analysis sorts the patents by the US patent date of grant or issue as shown on the Front Page of the issued patent. A US Main Class Analysis sorts the patents by the Primary US Main Patent Classification assigned to the patent by the US Patent and Trademark Office. shows details of the analysis results element of when US Main Class Analysis has been specified. As indicated Right Clicking on a Class displays a menu for accessing US Patent Class information.

Finally A US Class Pair Analysis sorts the patents by the primary US Patent Classification Subclass assigned to the patent by the US Patent and Trademark Office.

In addition to the histogram types of analyses that may be specified in accordance with the tool bar illustrated in in a further embodiment of the present invention the user may specify any of a range of visual analyses of the group of patents returned by the Google Patent Search engine. shows detail of a toolbar in the patent analytics web page in accordance with this embodiment wherein the user may specify in addition to the criteria of any one of a series of types of patent maps. The expanded pull down menu of this figure shows types of maps that may be selected and the Interconnection map is here selected.

In a further embodiment of the present invention in the patent analytics web page the user may trigger highlighting of one or more individual items in the first element on the left showing Google Patent search engine results that correspond to a selected item of analysis shown in the second element on the right showing analysis results . This highlighting can be accessed from any analysis results type including visual analyses and histogram analysis presentations. provides an example of highlighting of items in Google Patent search engine results corresponding to a selected item of analysis results where the analysis results are specified as assignee histogram data. Here the user has clicked on the assignee name Samsung Electronics in the second element on the right and the patents owned by Samsung are shown highlighted in the first element showing Google Patent search engine results.

Societal analyses. Although we have described a wide range of specified analyses that may be carried out by the processes described above there is yet another class of analyses that may be carried out by such processes. In particular this further class of analyses relates to a societal dimension of patents addressing political and geographic attributes of assignees and inventors of patents. Such analyses may provide with respect to search results from the search engine in one embodiment a listing of the numbers of patents by city or town and state or country of the assignee or of inventors. Such a listing may be displayed even visually on a map of the United States in the case where all assignees are from the United States or of the world or other pertinent geographic area depending on the political data for the assignees and inventors. We describe this approach immediately below.

For purposes of illustration of societal analyses we begin with which shows a patent analysis web page in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention in which like the embodiment of an assignee analysis has been specified displaying here search results for the string congestive heart failure and an assignee histogram.

It is within the scope various embodiments of the present invention to provide advertising based on the analysis results presented or based on at least one item included in at least one of the analysis and the search results content. For example if an analysis is performed for which analysis results are hybrid engines then an advertisement engine can deliver advertisements for hybrid engine patents available for license or sale. If a geographic distribution of inventors is displayed for a search directed to hybrid engines in which a major cluster of inventors appears around Detroit then an advertisement engine can deliver advertisements for automobiles from General Motors or Ford Motor Company. If an analysis is performed in which Intel happens to be the largest assignee then an advertisement engine can deliver advertisements for Intel products or for the benefits of having Intel inside .

The inventor or assignee mapping appearing on a patent analysis web page graphical in embodiments of the present invention may also be enhanced to show more information. For example attributes of pushpins or other locator icons on the map such as color size faded appearance or shape may be used to show attributes of patents pertaining to the inventors or assignees or of the patents pertaining to them. Indeed the use of pushpin icons is arbitrary and the selection of locator icon can also be varied to indicate an attribute. Hence any locator icon characteristic including locator icon selection color size appearance and shape may indicate an attribute. Where inventors are being mapped for example all inventors having a common assignee may be represented by a specific shape or color. Inventors having no indicated assignees may be represented by a unique shape. All inventors or assignees having only expired patents may be represented by a pushpin having a faded appearance. An inventors or assignee holding a plurality of patents may be indicated by a pushpin having a size that is a function of the number of patents held by the inventor or assignee. Alternatively the size of a pushpin may be made a function of the imputed importance of patents held by the respective inventor or assignee. In this case the imputed importance of a patent may be based for example on the downstream citation frequency experienced by the patent or by the strength of its claims as determined by metrics known in the art. In addition we may utilize any of the foregoing criteria not just for representation of pushpins but also to select pushpins for representation in the first place.

Multi jurisdictional analyses. illustrate the use of an embodiment similar to the embodiment of employing a specified assignee analysis but here using one or more patent search engines to permit analysis of patent properties from multiple jurisdictions for the purpose of obtaining multi jurisdictional information. We show in particular how such an embodiment may be used to obtain analyses of the results of searches over three different web search engines US Chinese European for patents that match the keyword RFID radio frequency identification and how these analyses in turn can be integrated into a multi jurisdictional understanding.

In such an embodiment is utilized to specify as Analysis type a histogram showing patent assignees for a search of US patents for the term RFID . The analysis histogram shows that Intermec IP Micron Checkpoint and Sensormatic are the top four Assignees of patents in this search of the US patent database. Note that the assignees returned from this search are primarily US based companies.

In the embodiment is utilized to specify as Analysis type a histogram showing patent applicants for a search of Chinese patents for the term RFID . In other words there are two differences between the parameters specified in this figure and the parameters specified in here the jurisdiction specified is the Chinese patent office not the US Patent and Trademark Office and here the specified Analysis type is for Applicants not assignees. As a practical matter in most countries other than the United States applications for a patent may be filed directly and initially by a company employing the inventor and need not be in the name of the inventor. Because US law specifies generally that patent applications can be filed on behalf of a company employing an inventor only if the inventor has explicitly assigned the patent rights to the company a search of the US Patent and Trademark Office to identify companies that have filed applications requires searching for assignees having a particular name. On the other hand for jurisdictions outside the United States a search to identify companies that have filed applications requires searching for applicants . Thus although the two terms are different they produce similar kinds of data. This histograms resulting from this search in the Chinese Patent database by a different search engine shows that 3M Checkpoint Moore and Microchip are the top 4 Applicants in China. Note in the histogram based on the search results that many companies other than native Chinese companies have filed for patents in China.

In in a fashion analogous to the approach illustrated in the embodiment is similarly utilized to specify as Analysis type a histogram showing patent applicants for a search of European patents for the term RFID . Here the analysis histogram returns Checkpoint Escort Memory Intermec and Moore as the top Applicants in a European Database of patents. Note that these are the some of the same companies as showing up in the US and China searches of .

With these analysis results it is possible to perform further analysis on the analysis results such as comparative numerical analyses with histograms and Patent Maps of relationships among the several search results. In we show an expansion of the histogram analysis in to identify particular US patents assigned to Checkpoint. In we show an expansion of the histogram analysis of to identify particular Chinese patents issued to Checkpoint the same company as in . In we show an expansion of the histogram analysis of to identify particular European patents issued to Checkpoint. With these cumulative analytic results in hand further analyses may be carried out on these results such as determining the extent to which the patents filed by Checkpoint in the US China and Europe are equivalent. In this respect processes such as patent family searches can be employed to identify equivalents among these patents from these several analyses. A comparison of the respective patents filed in the US China and Europe may provide information as to the importance Checkpoint places on its technologies in different parts of the world. Patents take significant resources to file and maintain and thus it is an economic decision where and when to file to protect specific technologies. Such further analyses may provide some insights as to a company s global business strategy.

Multi level searching. Alternatively or in addition there may be employed a multi level search. Consider for example an analysis of search results that provides a histogram representation of inventors identified in the search results as described above with respect to . For each inventor listed a second search using the Google scholar search engine for example may be performed automatically as part of the analysis to provide links to papers by each inventor. In this embodiment results of the patent search engine are captured in processes running in connection with the user s browser and data including inventor names are extracted and used as search criteria for the second search engine. The processes running in connection with the user s browser make the results from the second search engine available for display when such results are selected or specified by the user. Similarly if the user selects only specific patents from results of the patent search engine the secondary search results may be correspondingly filtered to show only papers by inventors pertinent to the patents so specified. Alternatively or in addition the multi level search can seek to identify institutions of higher education with which each inventor is associated using search engines such as Google Scholar and Zoominfo. For each institution further recourse to search engines may identify other publications and patents involving inventors and researchers in the same field or research group at the institution. Moreover search engines such as Zoominfo may be used to generate a profile report of such inventors and researchers for use as a recruiting tool for hiring team members finding expert witnesses hiring consultants for tracking key inventors etc.

Multi level analyses. In another embodiment of the present invention multiple levels of analysis may be presented simultaneously. Thus for example an inventor histogram analysis such as in may be presented as an element of an analysis web page in a middle section of the web page for example and an inventor map such as in the right side of for example may be presented simultaneously as another element of the analysis web page in the right side of the web page for example . Optionally the search results content may be displayed as well in the left side of the web page for example .

Capture list capture selected. In various embodiments of the present invention there is be provided the ability to capture namely store a list of the search results content and optionally the analysis results. In addition there is optionally provided the ability to capture items of search results content that that have been selected typically graphically by the user similarly there is optionally provided the ability to capture items of analysis results that have been selected. In this fashion the saved items can be recalled and redisplayed as well as subjected to further analysis and further selection. These Capture List and Capture Selected features are shown as graphical buttons in the upper right corner of the screen in .

Analyses of content other than patents. Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the analysis of patents. illustrates an embodiment similar to that of wherein results of a query to a search engine are the subject of analysis but wherein the content being analyzed is movies rather than patents. In particular in this embodiment it can be seen that search queries can be directed not only to search engines for patents of the United States Patent and Trademark Office of the Chinese Patent Office and of the European Patent Office but also for general information sources including Microsoft Technical Publications MSN Money ETF Funds and the Yahoo Movie Search. In this example the radio button is selected for Yahoo Movie Search and the Analysis Type can include histograms of Stars Directors Producers Genres Studios and Release Date. The search is directed to movie descriptions that include the word time . We have specified Stars as the Analysis Type that is to be directed to the content recovered by the search engine shown on the left hand side of the web page of movies having a description in which the word time appears. The analysis on the right side of the web page is thus a series of histograms showing the frequency of occurrence of each identified Star in the movies in the search results. Moreover the residences of these Stars for example may be indicated on a geographical map in a fashion analogous to the maps described above in connection with . Similarly the locator icons used to indicate residences of Stars may be varied to indicate something about the Star in relation to search results content. Thus a locator icon characteristic selected from the group including icon selection color size appearance and shape for example icon size may indicate the number of movies in the search results content in which the Star has appeared. In search for MSN Money ETF Funds the analysis results may be placed on a map according to location of headquarters for the fund and the locator icon color may be indicative of size of the fund.

In other words societal analyses and multi level analyses analogous to those described above may be performed in a wide range of contexts outside of patents. Accordingly patents provide an important but by no means unique context for implementation of embodiments of the present invention.

Logical Processing to implement these embodiments. The embodiments described above may be implemented using an approach as follows.

In the course of this implementation receiving the HTML may require requesting and receiving more than one web page. Processing of the received HTML may be done in a browser. Moreover from the received HTML data may have elements that contain received data but which are not visible when the search result is rendered in a browser element. Analysis of the set of received data may be done in a browser and may involve additional data not contained in the set of received data. The visualization of the analysis may contain a statistical representation or graphical mapping may be in the form of HTML that can be shown in the browser and may be shown in the context of the received set of data from the searchable web site. Related embodiments may include auto fetch of the list of results from the search engine either up to a specified number or until all are retrieved. Moreover processing the HTML from the web site may be accomplished so that user selected elements of the analysis results in the displayed web page can be highlighted in the search engine results element thus making visualization of the analysis results interactive.

We now consider logical processing associated with invoking the search using the patent analytics web page of . illustrates the general context. A user s digital computing device implemented here as computer with a loaded web browser accesses the analytic engine web server over the internet . In turn the analytic engine web server accesses the search engine web server over the internet.

In process the JavaScript code previously downloaded as part of process and running in association with the browser application processes the HTML text constituting the search engine results to extract and reassemble the HTML elements containing the patent entries in the search result. The reassembled HTML is placed into a establishing what we have called above the first element in the left side of the patent analytics web page which was downloaded in process . This is done by setting the innerHTML attribute of the to contain the HTML. The browser application processes the HTML and then displays the search results as they would appear if the user were on the www.google.com patents web site except that the other parts of the Google search result page are not present.

Second in process the JavaScript processes the HTML search engine results to extract the patent numbers and to make a request of the patent analytic server to get supplementary data about those patents. The request for supplementary data is performed using an XMLHTTP post request with the patent numbers encoded into the post data of the HTTP.

In process the JavaScript processes associated with the browser cause initiation of a request to the analytic engine server for data supplementary to the search results pertaining to the item identification here the patent numbers the supplementary data are typically governed by the criteria specified for the analysis. In process the patent analytics server looks up the supplementary data for the patents including the patent title application date inventors inventor addresses original assignees current assignees examiner and patent classes. The server then creates JavaScript source code containing an object that has the table of patent data. The JavaScript source code is returned to the browser in the XMLHTTP reply.

In process the JavaScript processes associated with the browser perform the analysis on the search results data as supplemented by the database accessed in process based on the specified criteria. The JavaScript code running in the browser takes the JavaScript source code and evaluates it using the eval function. This causes the patent data contained in the reply to become available in the browser s JavaScript environment. The JavaScript processes the patent data to create for example binned histogram data and creates an HTML representation of the histogram as part of process . The HTML is placed into a divided section of the patent analytics web page by using the tag so that the resulting analysis appears as an element on the right hand side of the page. This is done by setting the innerHTML attribute of the to contain the HTML.

The type of the analysis is determined by the Analysis Type dropdown menu at the top of the patent analytics web page. In one embodiment the Analysis Type initially defaults to Assignees . If the user changes the analysis type in process by using the dropdown menu the JavaScript processes first determine whether additional data are needed to perform the newly requested analysis. If additional data are not needed then logical flow returns to process and again the processes perform the analysis and cause display of the analysis results as the right hand element of the analytic web page. Again the corresponding new HTML is placed into the on the right side of the page to establish what we have called the second element . If additional data are needed then the processes invoke the analysis engine server to provide the additional data in process . Once the data are provided then logical flow again goes to process for performing the requested analysis as just recited.

In is shown an embodiment similar to that of but wherein the search engine server also performs processes that are performed by the analytic engine server in . Accordingly there are no boxes beneath the heading Analytic Server in this figure. In process the user navigates the browser to the search engine server web page. In process the user enters the relevant analysis type and search fields. In process the search engine server returns a web page containing the search results and also including JavaScript code for execution in association with the user s browser application. In addition the search engine server delivers supplementary data corresponding to the search results that can be used in analysis downstream. In process the browser application running on the user s computer renders the web page including the search results which are placed on the left side of the page. Meanwhile in process the downloaded JavaScript code running in association with the browser performs the analysis according to the criteria specified by the user in process on the received data and creates HTML for visual display of the analysis results. The HTML is rendered by the browser on the right side of the web page. In process the user may select a different analysis from the dropdown menu and such analysis is then performed in process again with the JavaScript code and produces a new rendering in the right side of the web page reflecting the new analysis results. Optionally in a fashion analogous to processes and of before process the JavaScript may send a request to the Analytic Server for additional data for the item IDs as in process and the Analysis Server in response may retrieve the additional data from a database as in process . Similarly in a fashion analogous to process if in process the user selects a different process using the Analysis dropdown menu requiring data not available in the browser the JavaScript may again generate a request to the Analytic Server for additional data and as in process the Analysis server in response may retrieve the additional data from a database so that the JavaScript may perform the requisite analysis in process

The processes described above can be and are used for implementing a wide range of analyses. We now specifically discuss how the processes of are implemented to provide Inventor Maps as illustrated in . During the initial pass through processes and JavaScript code running in association with browser when the web page from the analysis engine server is downloaded retrieves the front page data including inventor addresses for all the patent IDs i.e. patent numbers returned by the Google patent search engine server. This is done with an XMLHTTP request to the analysis engine server.

When the user selects Inventor Map option in process the JavaScript for the Inventor Map analysis processes the existing inventor addresses to create a list of unique addresses. The JavaScript for the Inventor Map analysis uses XMLHTTP to send the list of unique addresses to the analysis engine server along the path marked No and get back a list of latitudes and longitudes corresponding to the addresses. Although this request goes to the analysis engine server it could go to any server that can provide the information.

The JavaScript for Inventor Map analysis uses the Google Maps JavaScript library to generate the HTML that shows the map of inventor addresses. Getting access to the Google Maps library is done by using a tag in the web page having the following form 

where the src attribute is an HTTP address pointing to the JavaScript file containing the Google Map library JavaScript code on the Google server.

The JavaScript for Inventor Map analysis creates a GMap2 object using the Google Map library. The GMap2 object is given an element in the page in this case a where GMap2 object is expected to put in the HTML representing the Google Map.

The Inventor Map analysis uses the Google Map library to create a GMarker object such as a graphical pushpin or thumbtack for each unique address setting the latitude longitude corresponding to the address. For each unique address the Inventor Map analysis creates HTML listing all the inventors and their patents for inventors who have that address. The HTML is provided to the GMarker. The GMarker event handling code shows the HTML when the user clicks on the Marker e.g. see . The GMarker is handed off to the GMap2 object. The GMap2 object also pulls in the bitmaps that show the map of the United States and provides the interface for pan and zoom functionality.

In this example the JavaScript code for Inventor Map analysis uses the Google Map JavaScript library as a 3rd party library that is capable of generating HTML to be rendered in the web page. The other analyses described here are based on JavaScript code provided in its entirety by the analysis engine server.

The fact that the Google Maps JavaScript code comes from a server different from the analysis engine server providing the other analysis JavaScript is a technical detail. Just as in process the latitude and longitude information could come from any server that supports the functionality additional JavaScript code for analysis or rendering of the analysis result can be accessed from any server that is configured to give access to the JavaScript file s . In this example instead of using the third party Google Map JavaScript code we could have written our own JavaScript code that created the HTML for a map with markers however the ability to use an existing full featured library provides great leverage in creating functionality.

The embodiments of the invention described above are intended to be merely exemplary numerous variations and modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art. All such variations and modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present invention as defined in any appended claims. We provide a few examples. Various embodiments involve accessing databases for information supplemental to the search results content from a web based search engine. The databases utilizable for obtaining such supplemental information include various types of databases in terms of both structure and content. Such databases include flat file structures such as a user s own contact database maintained on a digital computing device using for example Outlook brand software part of the Office suite of products available from Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. for supplying information about individuals and companies. Numerous additional web based sources also exist for such a purpose such as for example LinkedIn www.linkedin.com and Facebook www.facebook.com Databases utilizable for obtaining such supplemental information also include relational databases of various kinds including SQL databases available as SQL Server from Microsoft Oracle from Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. and DB2 from IBM Poughkeepsie N.Y. We have mentioned Google Maps for mapping purposes but numerous alternatives exist including for example Yahoo Maps. We have mentioned use of JavaScript and applets running in the browser application but related and other solutions may be used in embodiments of the present invention including AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Java applets and from Microsoft ActiveX and VBScript.

In another embodiment of the present invention both the web based search engine and the user s digital computing device may be merged into the same facility so that a single stand alone computer accesses the search engine data to obtain search results content and performs the analysis of the search results content.

