---

title: Methods and apparatus for an environmental and behavioral adaptive wireless communication device
abstract: Methods, devices, apparatus and systems are provided for adaptation of a wireless communication device based on current environmental conditions, historical environmental condition patterns and/or historical usage patterns. In this regard, the device senses such environmental conditions as light, sound, motion, temperature and the like and, automatically or at user discretion, adjusts functionality on the device that is affected by these conditions. Additionally, by determining environmental and usage patterns the device can adapt to the patterns by providing certain functionality and/or applications to the user at prescribed times of the day, week, month, etc. By being able to automatically adapt the functionality of a wireless communication device, the user of such a device experiences greater ease in using the device and an overall heightened user experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07675414&OS=07675414&RS=07675414
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07675414
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070125
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 837 156 entitled System and Method for Adaptive Communication Device filed Aug. 10 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosed aspects relate to wireless communication devices and more particularly to methods and apparatus for adapting the wireless communication device to environmental conditions and user behavior.

Wireless communication devices have become a prevalent means by which majorities of people worldwide have come to communicate. Wireless communication devices have become smaller and more powerful in order to meet consumer needs and to improve portability and convenience. The increase in processing power in wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones has lead to an increase in demands on wireless network transmission systems. As wireless communication device capabilities expand adaptive capabilities of such wireless communication devices become possible.

One problem that persists in wireless communication devices is the inability to hear either the ring tone or caller or detect a vibration in a noisy or distracting environment. Currently in order for the device to overcome the noise distraction problem the device user must manually adjust the volume of ring tone the intensity of the vibration the frequency of the ring tone vibration and or the microphone volume. Even if a user is cognizant of the current or impending noisy or distracting environment the manual adjustment process is generally inconvenient and time consuming to the user often requiring the user to recall and provide various inputs to a system configuration application in order to adjust the ring tone volume frequency the vibration intensity frequency and or the microphone volume. In other instances noisy or distracting environments may occur randomly without providing the user an opportunity to manually adjust the features within the device.

In the same regard other features and functions on the communication device may be affected by environmental conditions. For example displays on such devices have become the rule rather than the exception and the ability to properly view the display is dependent on the amount of ambient light. Typically the display is difficult if not impossible to view in poorly lit environments or overly bright outdoor environments. When the device encounters such environments the user must make manual adjustments to the display features such as display brightness display contrast and the like in order to be able to view the displayed information. Similar to the hearing and or detecting problems related to noisy or distracting environment the poorly lit or overly bright environment poses similar problems. Even if a user is aware of the current or impending lighting environment the manual adjustment process is generally inconvenient time consuming and requires the user to recall and provide various inputs to a system configuration application in order to adjust the contrast and brightness. In other instances poorly lit or over bright environments may occur randomly without providing the user an opportunity to manually adjust the features within the device.

Additionally as wireless communication devices provide increasingly more functionality users of such devices rely on the device around the clock to carry out a myriad of everyday functions. For example a user may daily rely on an alarm application to wake up in the morning habitually use a news application to receive weather sports news and stock market information at routine time periods through out the day launch a music application to listen to a specific genre of music at a prescribed time or make certain calls to certain individuals at the prescribed times throughout a day or a week. All of these functions and applications require the user to continuously and in most instances redundantly interface with the device. In many instances continuous and redundant interface with the device adds inefficiency to the overall user experience.

Therefore a need exists to develop systems methods and devices that sense and automatically or with user acquiescence adapt to environmental conditions and or user usage patterns. Such a device will improve the user experience by eliminating the need to manually change device features based on current environmental conditions and or redundantly perform functions applications and the like that are undertaken by the user on a regular daily or weekly basis. The desired systems methods and devices provider for a smarter wireless communication device that is able to automatically adapt to environmental conditions and user behavior patterns.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented infra.

Thus methods computer program products processors and apparatus presented herein provide for the adaptation of a wireless communication device based on current environmental conditions historical environmental patterns and or historical usage patterns. The described aspects provide for a wireless communication that lends itself to an improved user experience by eliminating the need to manually change device features based on current environmental conditions or a historical pattern of environmental conditions. In addition the described aspects add to the user experience by eliminating the need to redundantly perform functions applications and the like based on a usage pattern determined on a regular daily or weekly basis.

In one aspect a method is provided for adapting a wireless communication device. The method includes detecting one or more environmental conditions at a wireless communication device determining if the one or more detected environmental conditions warrant adjustment to one or more wireless communication device functions and determining an adjustment action for the one or more wireless device functions if the detected environmental condition is determined to warrant adjustment. The adjustment action may be defined as a function parameter alteration function activation and or a function deactivation. The method may further include adjusting the one or more wireless communication device functions based on the determined adjustment action. Detecting environmental conditions may include but is not limited to detecting ambient light intensity detecting ambient noise level detecting motion of the wireless device detecting ambient temperature and the like. The wireless communication functions that may be adjusted based on detected environmental conditions include but are not limited to display brightness display contrast ring tone volume ring tone frequency vibration intensity vibration frequency speaker volume a voice activated dialer function a power down function a limited use function and the like. Determining if the detected environmental condition warrants adjustment further may include comparing the detected environmental conditions to one or more predetermined thresholds implementing a predetermined algorithm implementing a heuristic simulation or any other feasible manner for determining if adjustment is warranted. Further the adjustment to the device functions may occur automatically based on user pre configuration or the user may be prompted for acceptance of any adjustment prior to implementing the adjustment.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of detecting one or more environmental conditions at a wireless communication device determining if the one or more detected environmental conditions warrant adjustment to one or more wireless communication device parameters and determining an adjustment action for the one or more wireless device parameters if the detected environmental condition is determined to warrant adjustment.

A further related aspect is defined by a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to detect one or more environmental conditions at a wireless communication device a second set of codes for causing the computer to determine if the one or more detected environmental conditions warrant adjustment to one or more wireless communication device parameters and a third set of codes for causing the computer to determine an adjustment action for the one or more wireless device parameters if the detected environmental condition is determined to warrant adjustment.

Another aspect is provided for by a wireless communication device. The device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory at least one sensor device in communication with the processor and operable for sensing an environmental condition and a function adjustment module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The function adjustment module includes adjustment determination logic operable for determining if the sensed environmental condition warrants adjustment to one or more wireless communication device functions and determining an adjustment action for the one or more wireless device functions if the detected environmental condition is determined to warrant adjustment and adjustment logic operable for adjusting the one or more wireless communication device functions based on the determined adjustment action. The sensor device may include but is not limited to a photo sensor operable for sensing light intensity an audio level sensor operable for sensing noise level an accelerometer operable for sensing motion in the wireless communication device a temperature sensor operable for sensing temperature and the like. The adjustment determination logic may further include one or more predetermined thresholds that are used to compare the sensed environmental condition to determine if adjustment is warranted one or more predetermined algorithms that implement to determine if adjustment is warranted and or one or more heuristic simulations that are implement to determine if adjustment is warranted.

A related aspect is defined by a wireless communication device that includes means for detecting one or more environmental conditions at the wireless communication device means for determining if the one or more detected environmental conditions warrant adjustment to one or more wireless communication device parameters and means for determining an adjustment action for the one or more wireless device parameters if the detected environmental condition is determined to warrant adjustment.

Yet another aspect is provided by a method for adapting a wireless communication device. The method includes logging user actions and temporal information associated with the user actions determining a usage pattern based on the logged user actions and the temporal information and determining at least one function adjustment based on the usage pattern. The method may further include adjusting at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one function adjustment. The logging of user actions may include but is not limited to user actions such as communication calls made communication calls received applications accessed on the wireless device and functionality implemented on the wireless device. In addition the method may include logging geographic location information associated the user actions such that the determination of a usage pattern is based on the logged user actions the temporal information and the geographic location information. Function adjustment may include but is not limited to function application parameter alteration function application activation and function application deactivation. The determination of a usage pattern may be based on comparison of the logged usage actions and temporal information to predetermined usage pattern thresholds implementing a heuristic simulation model and or implementing a predetermined algorithm. Further the adjustment to the device functions may occur automatically based on user pre configuration or the user may be prompted for acceptance of any adjustment prior to implementing the adjustment.

A related aspect is provided by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of logging user actions and temporal information associated with the user actions determining a usage pattern based on the logged user actions and the temporal information and determining at least one function adjustment based on the usage pattern.

A further related aspect is provided by a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to log user actions and temporal information associated with the user actions a second set of codes for causing the computer to determine a usage pattern based on the logged user actions and the temporal information and a third set of codes for causing the computer to determine at least one function adjustment based on the usage pattern.

Another aspect is provided for by a wireless communication device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory a user action log stored in the memory operable for storing user actions and associated temporal information and a function adjustment module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The function adjustment module includes usage pattern logic operable for determining a usage pattern based on the logged user actions and the temporal information adjustment determination logic operable for determining at least one function adjustment based on the usage pattern and adjustment logic operable to adjust at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one function adjustment. The user actions that are logged may include but are not limited to communication calls made communication calls received applications accessed and functionality implemented. The device may further include a location determining device such as a GPS sensor or an environmental sensing device such that user action log further stores geographic location information and or environmental condition data associated with the user actions and such that the usage pattern logic is further operable for determining a usage pattern based on the logged user actions the temporal information and the geographic location information and or the environmental conditions. The adjustment determination logic may further include one or more predetermined algorithms or one or more heuristic simulation modules such that the at least one function adjustment is based on a predetermined algorithm and or a heuristic simulation model.

A related aspect is provided by a wireless communication device that includes means for logging user actions and temporal information associated with the user actions means for determining a usage pattern based on the logged user actions and the temporal information means for determining at least one function adjustment based on the usage pattern and means for adjusting at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one function adjustment.

In yet another aspect a method for adapting a wireless communication device is provided. The method includes detecting one or more environmental condition at a wireless communication device logging the environmental conditions and associated temporal information determining an environmental condition pattern based on the logged environmental conditions and the associated temporal information and determining at least one adjustment action based on the environmental condition pattern. The method may further include adjusting at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one function adjustment. The logged environmental conditions may include but are not limited to ambient light intensity ambient noise level ambient temperature wireless device motion and the like. Additionally the method may include logging geographic location information associated with the environmental conditions such that determining an environmental condition pattern includes determining an environmental condition pattern based on the environmental conditions the temporal information and the geographic location information. The adjustment action may include but is not limited to function parameter adjustment function activation function deactivation and the like. Determining an environmental condition pattern may include but is not limited to determining an environmental pattern based a heuristic simulation a predetermined algorithm and or a comparison to a predetermined environmental pattern threshold. Determining at least one adjustment action based on the environmental condition pattern may include but is not limited to determining the at least one adjustment action based on a heuristic simulation a predetermined algorithm and or a comparison to a predetermined environmental threshold.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of detecting one or more environmental condition at a wireless communication device logging the environmental conditions and associated temporal information determining an environmental condition pattern based on the logged environmental conditions and the associated temporal information and determining at least one adjustment action based on the environmental condition pattern.

A further related aspect is defined by computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The instructions include a first set of codes for causing a computer to detect one or more environmental condition at a wireless communication device a second set of codes for causing the computer to log the environmental conditions and associated temporal information a third set of codes for causing the computer to determine an environmental condition pattern based on the logged environmental conditions and the associated temporal information and a fourth set of codes for causing the computer to determine at least one adjustment action based on the environmental condition pattern.

Yet another aspect is provided for by a wireless communication device. The device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory an environmental condition log stored in the memory operable for storing environmental conditions and associated temporal information and a function adjustment module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The environmental function adjustment module includes environmental condition pattern logic operable for determining an environmental condition pattern based on the logged environmental conditions and the temporal information adjustment determination logic operable for determining at least one function adjustment based on the environmental condition pattern and adjustment logic operable for adjusting at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one function adjustment.

A related aspect is defined by a wireless communication device that includes means for detecting one or more environmental condition at a wireless communication device means for logging the environmental conditions and associated temporal information means for determining an environmental condition pattern based on the logged environmental conditions and the associated temporal information and means for determining at least one adjustment action based on the environmental condition pattern.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects include the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more aspects. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and the described aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

As such the present aspects provide for methods computer program products processors and apparatus for adaptation of a wireless communication device based on current environmental conditions historical environmental condition patterns and or historical usage patterns. In this regard the device senses such environmental conditions as light sound motion temperature and the like and adjusts functionality on the device that is affected by these conditions. Additionally by determining environmental and usage patterns the device can adapt to the patterns by providing certain functionality and or applications to the user at prescribed times of the day week month etc. By being able to automatically adapt the functionality of a wireless communication device the user of such a device is experiences greater ease in using the device and an overall heightened user experience.

The present apparatus computer program products processors and methods now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. These aspects may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects are described herein in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Referring to a schematic representation of a system for adapting a wireless communication device to environmental and behavioral conditions is presented. The wireless communication device commonly referred as a smart device due to processing capability includes a computer platform having a processor and memory . The memory of wireless communication device stores a function adjustment module that is operable for adjusting functions based on current ambient environmental conditions historical environmental condition patterns and or historical usage patterns. The term adjusting functions as defined herein includes adjusting any parameters or settings associated with a device function application module program or the like running on the device. In addition the term adjusting functions as defined herein includes activating or deactivating any function application module program or the like on the wireless communication device.

In aspects in which the function adjustment module is configured to adjust functions based on current ambient environmental conditions the wireless communication device will include one or more sensor devices that are operable for sensing or otherwise detecting the ambient environmental conditions in ambient environment . As shown in ambient environment conditions may include light noise temperature device motion and any other ambient conditions . As such the sensor devices may include but are not limited to a photo cell for detecting light intensity a microphone and audio level detector for detecting noise volume an accelerometer for detecting the rate of motion in the wireless device a thermometer for detecting temperature and the like. Adjustment determination logic included in the function adjustment module is operable for determining if a detected environmental condition warrants adjustment to one or more wireless communication device functions. Determining if a detected environmental condition warrants adjustment to one or more wireless device functions may be accomplished by comparing the detected conditions to predetermined adjustment thresholds implementation of one or more predetermined algorithms and or one or more heuristic simulation models.

The adjustment determination logic is also operable for determining an adjustment action for the one or more wireless device functions if the detected environmental condition is determined to warrant adjustment. The adjustment action as defined herein may include adjustment to a function or application parameter or setting and or activation deactivation of a function or application. For example detected light intensity conditions may warrant adjustment to display contrast and or display brightness settings detected noise level may warrant adjustment to ringer volume ringer frequency vibration intensity vibration frequency and or speaker volume detected device motion may activate deactivate a voice activated dialer function detected temperature may activate deactivate a power down or limited use function and the like. The term determining an adjustment action as defined herein may also include determining the amount of adjustment. The amount of adjustment needed will depend on the severity of the environmental condition detected. Determining adjustment action may be accomplished by implementation of one or more look up tables one or more predetermined algorithms and or one or more heuristic simulation models.

The function adjustment module additionally includes adjustment logic operable for operable for adjusting the one or more wireless communication device functions based on the determined adjustment action. In some aspects adjustment may be pre configured by the user to occur automatically upon detection of an environmental condition that warrants adjustment. In alternate aspects the user may be prompted typically by visual display to accept or decline the adjustment action. Additionally the adjustment logic may be preconfigured to make the adjustment for a preconfigured period of time at which time the device reverts back to the pre adjustment setting or actions or alternatively the adjustment may remain in force until subsequent detection of environmental conditions warrants adjustment to the pre adjustment setting or action or any other necessary adjustment.

In aspects in which the function adjustment module is configured to adjust functions based on historical environmental condition patterns the wireless communication device will include an environmental condition log that at is operable for logging the environmental conditions and the temporal information associated with the logged environmental conditions. Additionally the wireless device may include a location determining device such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS not shown in and a location may be associated and logged with the historical environmental condition data and the temporal information for the purpose of establishing historical environmental condition patterns based on time and location. The function adjustment module additionally includes environmental condition pattern logic operable for establishing an environmental condition pattern. Establishing an environmental condition pattern may be accomplished by comparing logged environmental condition data to preconfigured environmental condition pattern thresholds implementing one or more pattern algorithms and or implementing one or more heuristic simulation models.

Once the environmental condition pattern logic has established an environmental condition pattern the function adjustment module will invoke the adjustment determination logic to determine at least one adjustment action based on the environmental condition pattern and the adjustment logic to adjust at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one adjustment action. The adjustment action as defined herein may include adjustment to a function or application parameter or setting and or activation deactivation of a function or application. For example a detected light intensity pattern may warrant adjustment to display contrast and or display brightness settings a detected noise level pattern may warrant adjustment to ringer volume ringer frequency vibration intensity vibration frequency and or speaker volume a detected device motion pattern may activate deactivate a voice activated dialer function a detected temperature pattern may activate deactivate a power down or limited use function and the like. The term determining an adjustment action as defined herein may also include determining the amount of adjustment or the pattern for adjustment. The amount or pattern of adjustment needed will depend on many factors included but not limited to the severity of the environmental condition pattern established changes in the pattern the duration of the pattern and the like. Determining adjustment action may be accomplished by implementation of one or more look up tables one or more predetermined algorithms and or one or more heuristic simulation models.

The adjustment logic may be preconfigured by the user to automatically implement the adjustment action s upon establishment of an environmental condition pattern. In alternate aspects the user may be prompted typically by visual display to accept or decline the adjustment action s . Typically the adjustment will last for the time period of the determined pattern however user configuration may provide for the adjustment actions to be suspended at any time during the adjustment time period and for the wireless device to resort back to pre adjustment parameter settings and or functionality.

In aspects in which the function adjustment module is configured to adjust functions based on historical usage patterns the wireless communication device will include a user action log that at is operable for logging user inputs or user actions and the temporal information associated with the logged environmental conditions. User actions may include communication calls made communication calls received functions used applications executed and the like. Additionally the wireless device may include a location determining device such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS not shown in and a location may be associated and logged with the historical usage data and the temporal information for the purpose of establishing historical environmental condition patterns based on time and location. The function adjustment module additionally includes usage pattern logic operable for establishing a usage pattern. Establishing a usage pattern may be accomplished by comparing logged user actions to preconfigured user action pattern thresholds implementing one or more pattern algorithms and or implementing one or more heuristic simulation models.

Once the usage pattern logic has established a usage pattern the function adjustment module will invoke the adjustment determination logic to determine at least one adjustment action based on the usage pattern and the adjustment logic to adjust at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one adjustment action. The adjustment action as defined herein may include adjustment to a function or application parameter or setting and or activation deactivation of a function or application. For example a usage pattern defined by the placement of a specific communication call at a specific time on a daily basis may result in an adjustment action of prompting the user to make the call prior to the specific time or automatically placing the call at the specific time. In another example a usage pattern may be defined by launching a web browser application and accessing a specific Internet site at a specific times during the day to obtain weather news sports stock information or the like and the resulting adjustment action may be to prompt the user to launch the web browser application at specific times or automatic launching of the web browser application and automatically directing the browser to specific sites of interest. Determining the adjustment action will typically be dictated by the defined usage pattern and may involve associating the usage pattern with one or more adjustment actions stored in a corresponding look up table.

The adjustment logic may be preconfigured by the user to automatically implement the adjustment action s upon establishment of a usage pattern. In alternate aspects the user may be prompted typically by visual display to accept or decline the adjustment action s .

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a wireless communication device operable for providing environmental and behavioral adaptation is depicted. The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory data registry which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory data registry may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as function adjustment module stored in the data registry of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In present aspects in which the function adjustment module relies on subsystems to detect environmental conditions the subsystems may include but are not limited to one or sensor device . For example the sensor devices may include photo cell operable for sensing light intensity audio level sensor operable for sensing audio level accelerometer or motion sensor operable for sensing motion in the wireless device temperature sensor operable for sensing temperature and location or GPS sensor operable for determining position. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processing engine may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

The data registry of computer platform includes function adjustment module that is operable for adjusting functions based on current ambient environmental conditions historical environmental condition patterns and or historical usage patterns. In aspects in which the function adjustment module is configured to adjust functions based on current ambient environmental conditions the module will implement adjustment determination logic which is operable for determining if a detected environmental condition warrants adjustment to one or more wireless communication device functions. Determining if a detected environmental condition warrants adjustment to one or more wireless device functions may be accomplished by comparing the detected conditions to predetermined adjustment thresholds implementation of one or more predetermined algorithms and or one or more heuristic simulation models.

It should be noted that sensor devices that are operable for detecting environmental conditions may be configured such that sensing or detection occurs at predetermined intervals or based on predetermined actions. For example a keypad input or a received communication call may prompt sensing of environmental conditions. Certain sensor devices will require battery power for implementation and therefore optimizing usage of the sensor devices is imperative.

The adjustment determination logic is also operable for determining an adjustment action for the one or more wireless device functions if the detected environmental condition is determined to warrant adjustment. As previously noted the adjustment action as defined herein may include adjustment to a function or application parameter or setting and or activation deactivation of a function or application. Additionally as previously noted the term determining an adjustment action as defined herein may also include determining the amount of adjustment. The amount of adjustment needed will depend on the severity of the environmental condition detected. Determining adjustment action may be accomplished by implementation of one or more look up tables one or more predetermined algorithms and or one or more heuristic simulation models.

The function adjustment module additionally includes adjustment logic operable for operable for adjusting the one or more wireless communication device functions based on the determined adjustment action. In some aspects adjustment may be pre configured by the user to occur automatically upon detection of an environmental condition that warrants adjustment. In alternate aspects the user may be prompted typically by visual display to accept or decline the adjustment action. Additionally the adjustment logic may be preconfigured to make the adjustment for a preconfigured period of time at which time the device reverts back to the pre adjustment setting or actions or alternatively the adjustment may remain in force until subsequent detection of environmental conditions warrants adjustment to the pre adjustment setting or action or any other necessary adjustment.

In aspects in which the function adjustment module is configured to adjust functions based on historical environmental condition patterns the wireless communication device will include an environmental condition log that at is operable for logging environmental condition data and the time information associated with the logged environmental conditions. Additionally the wireless device may include a location determining device such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS and a location may be associated and logged with the historical environmental condition data and the time information for the purpose of establishing historical environmental condition patterns based on time and location. The function adjustment module additionally includes environmental condition pattern logic operable for establishing an environmental condition pattern . Establishing an environmental condition pattern may be accomplished by comparing logged environmental condition data to preconfigured environmental condition pattern thresholds implementing one or more pattern algorithms and or implementing one or more heuristic simulation models.

Once the environmental condition pattern logic has established an environmental condition pattern the function adjustment module will invoke the adjustment determination logic to determine at least one adjustment action based on the environmental condition pattern and the adjustment logic to adjust at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one adjustment action. As previously noted the adjustment action as defined herein may include adjustment to a function or application parameter or setting and or activation deactivation of a function or application. Additionally as previously noted the term determining an adjustment action as defined herein may also include determining the amount of adjustment or the pattern for adjustment. The amount or pattern of adjustment needed will depend on many factors included but not limited to the severity of the environmental condition pattern established changes in the pattern the duration of the pattern and the like. Determining an adjustment action may be accomplished by implementation of one or more look up tables one or more predetermined algorithms and or one or more heuristic simulation models.

The adjustment logic may be preconfigured by the user to automatically implement the adjustment action s upon establishment of an environmental condition pattern. In alternate aspects the user may be prompted typically by visual display to accept or decline the adjustment action s . Typically the adjustment will last for the time period of the determined pattern however user configuration may provide for the adjustment actions to be suspended at any time during the adjustment time period and for the wireless device to resort back to pre adjustment parameter settings and or functionality.

In aspects in which the function adjustment module is configured to adjust functions based on historical usage patterns the wireless communication device will include a user action log that at is operable for logging user inputs or user actions and the time information associated with the logged environmental conditions. User actions may include communication calls made and received functions used applications executed and the like. Additionally the wireless device may include a location determining device such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS and a location information may be associated and logged with the historical usage data and the time information for the purpose of establishing historical environmental condition patterns based on time and location. The function adjustment module additionally includes usage pattern logic operable for establishing a usage pattern . Establishing a usage pattern may be accomplished by comparing logged user actions to preconfigured user action pattern thresholds implementing one or more pattern algorithms and or implementing one or more heuristic simulation models.

Once the usage pattern logic has established a usage pattern the function adjustment module will invoke the adjustment determination logic to determine at least one adjustment action based on the usage pattern and the adjustment logic to adjust at least one function of the wireless communication device based on the corresponding at least one adjustment action. The adjustment action as defined herein may include adjustment to a function or application parameter or setting and or activation deactivation of a function or application. Determining the adjustment action will typically be dictated by the defined usage pattern and may involve associating the usage pattern with one or more adjustment actions stored in a corresponding look up table.

The adjustment logic may be preconfigured by the user to automatically implement the adjustment action s upon establishment of a usage pattern. In alternate aspects the user may be prompted typically by visual display to accept or decline the adjustment action s .

Computer platform may further include communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the communication device as well as between the communication device and the wireless network . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless or wired network communication connection.

Additionally communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to activate an application on the communication device. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

Referring now to a wireless network communication system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect. System can include one or more base stations located in one or more cells that receive transmit repeat etc. wireless communication signals to each other and or to one or more wireless communication devices . Each base station can include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain not shown in each of which can in turn include a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. Wireless communication devices can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless network . System can be employed in conjunction with various aspects described herein in order to facilitate adaptation of the wireless communication devices based on environmental and or behavior conditions and or patterns.

The wireless network includes an access point and a wireless communication device . Access point includes a transmit TX data processor that receives formats codes interleaves and modulates or symbol maps traffic data and provides modulation symbols data symbols . The TX data processor is in communication with symbol modulator that receives and processes the data symbols and pilot symbols and provides a stream of symbols. Symbol modulator is in communication with transmitter unit TMTR such that symbol modulator multiplexes data and pilot symbols and provides them to transmitter unit TMTR . Each transmit symbol may be a data symbol a pilot symbol or a signal value of zero. The pilot symbols may be sent continuously in each symbol period. The pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM time division multiplexed TDM frequency division multiplexed FDM or code division multiplexed CDM .

TMTR receives and converts the stream of symbols into one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and frequency upconverts the analog signals to generate a downlink signal suitable for transmission over the wireless channel. The downlink signal is then transmitted through antenna to the terminals.

At wireless communication device antenna receives the downlink signal and provides a received signal to receiver unit RCVR . Receiver unit conditions e.g. filters amplifies and frequency downconverts the received signal and digitizes the conditioned signal to obtain samples. Receiver unit is in communication with symbol demodulator that demodulates the conditioned received signal. Symbol demodulator is in communication with processor that receives pilot symbols from symbol demodulator and performs channel estimation on the pilot symbols. Symbol demodulator further receives a frequency response estimate for the downlink from processor and performs data demodulation on the received data symbols to obtain data symbol estimates which are estimates of the transmitted data symbols . The symbol demodulator is also in communication with RX data processor which receives data symbol estimates from the symbol demodulator and demodulates i.e. symbol demaps deinterleaves and decodes the data symbol estimates to recover the transmitted traffic data. The processing by symbol demodulator and RX data processor is complementary to the processing by symbol modulator and TX data processor respectively at access point .

On the uplink a TX data processor processes traffic data and provides data symbols. The TX data processor is in communication with symbol modulator that receives and multiplexes the data symbols with pilot symbols performs modulation and provides a stream of symbols. The symbol modulator is in communication with transmitter unit which receives and processes the stream of symbols to generate an uplink signal which is transmitted by the antenna to the access point .

At access point the uplink signal from wireless communication device is received by the antenna and processed by a receiver unit to obtain samples. The receiver unit is in communication with symbol demodulator then processes the samples and provides received pilot symbols and data symbol estimates for the uplink. The symbol demodulator is in communication with RX data processor that processes the data symbol estimates to recover the traffic data transmitted by wireless communication device . The symbol demodulator is also in communication with processor that performs channel estimation for each active terminal transmitting on the uplink. Multiple terminals may transmit pilot concurrently on the uplink on their respective assigned sets of pilot subbands where the pilot subband sets may be interlaced.

Processors and direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at access point and wireless communication device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory units not shown that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

For a multiple access system e.g. FDMA OFDMA CDMA TDMA etc. multiple terminals can transmit concurrently on the uplink. For such a system the pilot subbands may be shared among different terminals. The channel estimation techniques may be used in cases where the pilot subbands for each terminal span the entire operating band possibly except for the band edges . Such a pilot subband structure would be desirable to obtain frequency diversity for each terminal. The techniques described herein may be implemented by various means. For example these techniques may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units used for channel estimation may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof. With software implementation can be through modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory unit and executed by the processors and .

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for adapting a wireless communication device based on ambient environmental conditions. At Event the wireless device detects environmental conditions. Detection may occur via one or more sensor detector devices embodied within the wireless communication device. The detected environmental conditions may include but are not limited to light intensity noise level wireless device motion temperature and the like. As previously noted the wireless communication device may be configured to detect environmental conditions at predetermined time intervals or based on the occurrence of predetermined events such as receipt of a communication call placing a communication call entering a keypad entry and the like.

At Decision the wireless communication device determines whether one or more of the detected environmental conditions warrants adjustment to a device function application or function application parameters or settings. Determining whether an adjustment is warranted may be accomplished by comparing the detected environmental conditions to adjustment thresholds implementing one or more adjustment determining algorithms and or implementing one or more heuristic simulation models. If the decision results in a determination that adjustment is not warranted the method returns to Event and further detecting of environmental conditions ensues.

If Decision results in a determination that the detected environmental conditions warrant an adjustment at Event an adjustment action is determined for functions applications and or parameters settings related to the functions or applications. An adjustment action may include but is not limited to altering parameters or settings for a function or application activating a function or application or deactivating a function. In the instance in which the adjustment action includes altering parameters or settings determining the adjustment action may include the amount of adjustment necessary in light of the detected environmental conditions. Determining an adjustment action may be accomplished by accessing a look up table that correlates the environmental condition warranting adjustment to one or more adjustment actions. For example if light intensity is the environmental condition warranting adjustment the adjustment actions may be altering display brightness and or display contrast. In another example if noise level is the environmental condition warranting adjustment the adjustment actions may be altering ring tone volume or ring tone frequency activating vibration mode altering vibration intensity or frequency and or altering speaker volume. Additionally one or more look up tables one or more adjustment algorithms and or one or more heuristic simulation models may be implemented to determine the adjustment amount necessary for altering a function or application setting or parameter.

At optional Decision the wireless device determines if the user accepts the adjustment action. The wireless device may be configured such that some or all of the environmental based adjustments require user acquiescence prior to being implemented. Typically in some aspects adjustments may be proposed to the user by providing an audio signal to the user and displaying the proposed adjustment on the corresponding device display. In other aspects the wireless device may be configured to automatically implement some or all of the adjustment actions without requiring user acceptance. If the user chooses to decline the adjustment action the method will return to Event and further detection of environmental conditions ensues. If the user chooses to accept the adjustment action at Event the adjustment is made to the function application and or function application parameters or settings.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for adapting a wireless communication device based on historical usage patterns. At Event the wireless communication device logs user actions and associated temporal information. The user actions may include but are not limited to communication calls made communication calls received applications implemented functionality employed and the like. Each user action will have temporal information associated therewith such as the date and time of the action and the duration of the action. At Event the wireless communication device determines a usage pattern based on the logged user actions and associated temporal information. For example if a user places the same communication call at generally the same time of every weekday the wireless device may define these actions as a usage pattern. In other example if a user accesses a web browser application and obtains news information from a specific site at prescribed time periods throughout the day the wireless device may define these actions as a usage pattern. A usage pattern may be determined by comparing logged user actions to usage pattern thresholds implementing one or more usage pattern algorithms and or implementing one or more heuristic simulation models.

At Event an adjustment action is determined for functions applications and or parameters settings related to the functions or applications. An adjustment action may include but is not limited to altering parameters or settings for a function or application activating a function or application or deactivating a function. In the instance in which the adjustment action includes altering parameters or settings determining the adjustment action may include the amount of adjustment necessary in light of the detected environmental conditions. Determining an adjustment action may be accomplished by accessing a look up table that correlates the usage pattern to one or more adjustment actions. For example if launching a web browser and accessing news information at specific times of the day is the defined usage pattern the adjustment actions may be to automatically launch the web browser and automatically redirect to the news site of interest.

At optional Decision the wireless device determines if the user accepts the adjustment action. The wireless device may be configured by the user such that some or all of the determined usage patterns require user acquiescence prior to adjustments being implemented. Typically in some aspects adjustments may be proposed to the user by providing an audio signal to the user and displaying the proposed adjustment on the corresponding device display. For example a user may be prompted to accept or reject the automatic launching of a web browser or the automatic placement of a communication call. In other aspects the wireless device may be configured to automatically implement some or all of the adjustment actions without requiring user acceptance. If the user chooses to decline the adjustment action the method will return to Event and further logging of user actions ensues. If the user chooses to accept the adjustment action at Event the adjustment is made to the function application and or function application parameters or settings.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for adapting a wireless communication device based on historical environmental conditions. At Event the wireless device detects environmental conditions. Detection may occur via one or more sensor detector devices embodied within the wireless communication device. The detected environmental conditions may include but are not limited to light intensity noise level wireless device motion temperature and the like. At Event the wireless communication device logs the detected environmental conditions and associated temporal information. The environmental conditions may include but are not limited to light intensity noise volume temperature wireless device motion and the like. Each environmental condition will have temporal information associated therewith such as the date and time of the condition and the duration of the condition. At Event the wireless communication device determines an environmental condition pattern based on the logged environmental conditions and associated temporal information. For example if the device experiences the same light intensity for example bright sunlight or noise level for example industrial workplace noise at generally the same time of every weekday for a specific time period the wireless device may define this condition as an environmental condition pattern. An environmental condition pattern may be determined by comparing logged environmental conditions to environmental condition pattern thresholds implementing one or more environmental condition pattern algorithms and or implementing one or more heuristic simulation models.

At Event an adjustment action is determined for functions applications and or parameters settings related to the functions or applications. An adjustment action may include but is not limited to altering parameters or settings for a function or application activating a function or application or deactivating a function. In the instance in which the adjustment action includes altering parameters or settings determining the adjustment action may include the amount of adjustment necessary in view of the detected environmental conditions. Determining an adjustment action may be accomplished by accessing a look up table that correlates the environmental condition pattern to one or more adjustment actions. For example if the environmental condition pattern is defined by light intensity for a specified time period for example sunlight between 8 am 5 pm weekdays the adjustment actions may be to automatically adjust the display brightness and display contrast to account for the light intensity pattern.

At optional Decision the wireless device determines if the user accepts the adjustment action. The wireless device may be configured by the user such that some or all of the determined environmental condition patterns require user acquiescence prior to adjustments being implemented. Typically in some aspects adjustments may be proposed to the user by providing an audio signal to the user and displaying the proposed adjustment on the corresponding device display. For example a user may be prompted to accept or reject the automatic adjustment of ring tone volume for a prescribed period of time or the automatic adjustment of ring tone to vibration tone for a prescribed period of time. In other aspects the wireless device may be configured to automatically implement some or all of the adjustment actions without requiring user acceptance. If the user chooses to decline the adjustment action the method will return to Event and further detecting of environmental conditions ensues. If the user chooses to accept the adjustment action at Event the adjustment is made to the function application and or function application parameters or settings.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may be defined in a computer program product residing as a computer readable medium having one or any combination or set of codes operable to cause a computer to implement the steps and or actions.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus the described aspects provide for adaptation of a wireless communication device based on current environmental conditions historical environmental condition patterns and or historical usage patterns. In this regard the device senses such environmental conditions as light sound motion temperature and the like and adjusts functionality on the device that is affected by these conditions. Additionally by determining environmental and usage patterns the device can adapt to the patterns by providing certain functionality and or applications to the user at prescribed times of the day week month etc. By being able to automatically adapt the functionality of a wireless communication device the user of such a device is experiences greater ease in using the device and an overall heightened user experience.

Many modifications and other aspects will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the aspect is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

