---

title: MEMS linear thermoelectric motor apparatus
abstract: A thermoelectric actuator moves in a first direction and an opposite direction upon the application and removal of a current. An actuator means is driven by the thermoelectric actuator and includes a set of drive teeth. The drive teeth engage with a first set of teeth on a slider member to move it to a desired position. A spring biases the slider back to an initial position. A keeper arrangement, having teeth that engage a second set of teeth on the slider, maintains the slider in its advanced position and prevents it from going back to its initial position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07567011&OS=07567011&RS=07567011
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07567011
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070201
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates in general to MEMS microelectromechanical systems devices and more particularly to a MEMS device that uses a V beam or U beam actuator as a driver.

A need exists for a MEMS device that will function to move an item into or out of a position. Electrostatics which uses the mutual attraction of parts at different potentials as the driving force is used in numerous MEMS devices. Such electrostatic actuators generally employ comb drives to create the necessary electromagnetic field to cause motion.

Electrostatics is attractive due to the relatively low power consumption. However there are several disadvantages to using electrostatics. A significant voltage source is required for large deflections sometimes in the hundreds of volts which is not practical and there is a chance of arcing. In addition comb drives are large and bulky and the distance of travel is limited by the separation of the combs. Electrostatic actuators also provide very low force.

Another type of MEMS device used for this purpose involves an electromagnetic actuator. Such electromagnetic actuators however require the fabrication of wire coils. Fabrication of these wire coils for the electromagnetic fields at a micro scale is extremely difficult since vertical loops have to be constructed around a slider element.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a MEMS actuator which can provide high force and which does not require a high voltage for operation.

It is another object to provide a MEMS actuator that has a longer stroke than an electrostatic device.

A MEMS linear thermoelectric motor apparatus in accordance with the present invention includes a thermoelectric actuator operable to move in a first direction when energized by a current and to move in an opposite direction when deenergized by removal of the current. An actuator means is connected to the thermoelectric actuator for movement by the thermoelectric actuator when it is energized and deenergized and includes at least one set of drive teeth.

A slider member is provided and includes at least a first set of teeth. At least one set of drive teeth are engageable with the first set of teeth to move the slider when the thermoelectric actuator is either energized or deenergized depending upon the direction of the teeth engagement. A spring is connected to the slider to bias it to an initial position. A keeper means having a keeper arrangement engageable with the slider maintains the slider in position against the action of the spring after the slider has been advanced.

In the microdetonator is in an initial position insufficient to set off the secondary explosive . When the thermoelectric actuator is engaged as indicated in it will cause actuator means to move slider in the direction of arrow until the microdetonator is directly above explosive lead whereupon the entire detonation process may proceed. In addition to the above the apparatus of the present invention finds use with a variety of fuzing scenarios. Further the apparatus has application with respect to fiber optics micro fluidic valves micro mirror applications and other precision positioning operations to name a few.

The invention uses a thermoelectric actuator one type of which is illustrated in . illustrates a V shaped beam V Beam thermoelectric actuator which includes first and second sets of actuator beams and each set including one or more individual beams two being illustrated by way of example. One end of set is connected to anchor while the other end is connected to an actuator arm . One end of set is connected to a second anchor with the other end being connected to actuator arm . The beams of sets and are of a conductive elastic material with a high melting point such as silicon. When a current is applied to anchor the beams expand causing the actuator arm to move in the direction of arrow as illustrated in . When the current is turned off the actuator arm reverts to its original position as in .

Another type of thermoelectric actuator is illustrated in . illustrates a U shaped beam U beam thermoelectric actuator which includes a thick beam joined to a thin beam with the beams being connected to respective anchors and . Application of current to anchor causes the beams to bend as in . Any actuator arm connected to one of the beams will move accordingly and when the current is removed the beams will assume the position as in .

Keeper means are provided to prevent the return of the slider back to its original position unless such return is called for. The keeper means includes a keeper arrangement which engages the slider . Such keeper arrangement may include for example a frictional clamp for preventing slider movement. In the embodiment of the invention described in however such keeper arrangement includes an arm attached to anchor . A set of keeper teeth is positioned at the end of arm that is operable to engage a second set of teeth on the upper portion of slider and act as a keeper.

In order to operate as a MEMS thermoelectric motor the beams of V beam actuator as well as actuator arm slider springs and arm must be free to move and therefore must be free of any underlying silicon dioxide insulating layer . One way to accomplish the removal of the underlying insulating layer is by applying an etchant such as hydrofluoric acid which will dissolve the silicon dioxide.

The etchant will in a relatively short period of time dissolve the insulation beneath the arms and as well as springs since they are of small width thus freeing them for movement. In order to shorten the time for dissolving the silicon dioxide under the slider it is provided with a series of apertures which extend from the top surface down to the insulating layer thereby allowing the etchant direct access to the undersurface of the slider . Although some of the etchant dissolves the insulation under the anchors the process of freeing the other components is completed before the anchors are completely freed so that they remain immovable.

When V beam actuator is energized the actuator arm will move to the right as illustrated in and teeth on actuator arm will slide past teeth on slider . In energization has ceased and V beam actuator starts to assume its initial position as in . When this happens due to their directionality teeth on actuator arm engage teeth on slider and pull slider to the left until it assumes the position in . Keeper teeth on arm lock with teeth on top of slider to ensure that slider cannot revert to it original position under action of spring . The process is repeated until slider has moved a predetermined distance such that the object to which it is connected not illustrated has attained a desired location. If for some reason it desired to release the slider so that it does revert to its original position another V beam actuator not illustrated may be employed to move the locking arm out of the way to disengage keeper teeth .

The embodiment in utilizes a U beam actuator . Positioned at the end of the U beam actuator is an actuator arm having a set of drive teeth at its end. These teeth engage with teeth on the upper portion of apertured slider . Springs connected to respective anchors and bias slider to an initial position. Extending from anchor is an arm having keeper teeth at its end which engage with teeth on the lower portion of slider to act as a keeper against action of springs . When the U beam actuator is energized it will bend as illustrated in moving teeth into engagement with teeth on slider . When the U beam actuator is deenergized it will assume the position as illustrated in and in so doing the engaged teeth and will cause slider to move to the right. The process is repeated until the desired position of slider is attained.

To increase the throw per cycle but reduce the time to fully extend the slider the thermoelectric actuator can be coupled to an actuator means which includes a lever as illustrated in . In V beam actuator has an actuator arm coupled to the middle of an apertured lever by a flexural member . The lever is pivotable about fulcrum at its top. An arm extending from the lower portion of lever includes a set of drive teeth which are engageable with teeth on the top portion of apertured slider . A spring connected to anchor biases the slider to its initial position.

A keeper arm connected to anchor includes a set of keeper teeth at its end for engagement with teeth on the lower portion of slider . When teeth engage teeth the slider is prevented from assuming its initial position under action of spring . When current is applied to V beam actuator it will draw lever to the left as illustrated in . When this occurs teeth on arm of the lever will slide over teeth on the slider . When the current is removed and as illustrated in the lever starts to assume its initial vertical position. In so doing teeth engaging teeth will push slider to the right. The full stroke is achieved in when the lever is in its vertical position whereupon the process is repeated. Keeper teeth on keeper arm engaging teeth on the bottom of slider prevent the slider from assuming its initial position due to spring action.

Extending from the bottom of lever is arm having a set of teeth at its end. These teeth engage with teeth located on a lower portion of slider . In operation and as indicated in when the V beam actuator is activated to move to the left the bottom of lever will move to the right. In so doing engaged teeth and will cause slider to move to the right while teeth slide over teeth . At the full extent of travel as indicated in teeth lock with teeth to act as a keeper.

When the V beam actuator is deenergized as in it moves to the right causing locked teeth and to also move the slider to the right with teeth and now acting as a keeper. The process is repeated such that with each energization and deenergization of V beam actuator slider will continuously move to the right. Thus teeth at the bottom of lever act as a keeper when teeth are driving then slider and vice versa.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

For example although only one thermoelectric actuator has been illustrated two such thermoelectric actuators can be employed to move two levers both connected to a single slider. These two thermoelectric actuators can operate alternatively or in tandem to provide double the driving force and decrease the number of cycles required for desired slider travel. Further the direction of travel of the slider upon energization and deenergization of the thermoelectric actuators will depend upon the directional orientation of the complementary engaging teeth.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

