---

title: Methods of making proteins and peptides containing a single free cysteine
abstract: Disclosed is a method for refolding a protein or peptide that does not contain essential disulfides and that contains at least one free cysteine residue. Also disclosed are polymer IFN-γ conjugates that have been created by the chemical coupling of polymers such as polyethylene glycol moieties to IFN-γ, particularly via a free cysteine in the protein. Also disclosed are analogs of bioactive peptides that may be used to create longer acting versions of the peptides, including analogs of glucagon, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), GLP-2, Gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP), PYY, exendin, ghrelin, gastrin, amylin, and oxyntomodulin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08617531&OS=08617531&RS=08617531
owner: Bolder Biotechnology, Inc.
number: 08617531
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
This invention was made in part with government support under Grant Nos. 1R43 AI060043 2R44AI060043 and 1R43CA108001 each awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US2007 087657 having an international filing date of Dec. 14 2007 which designated the United States which PCT application claimed the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 870 022 filed Dec. 14 2006 the entire disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This application contains a Sequence Listing submitted as an electronic text file named 4152 18 ST25.txt having a size in bytes of 8 kb and created on 14 Dec. 2007. The information contained in this electronic file is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety pursuant to 37 CFR 1.52 e 5 .

This invention generally relates to novel polymer protein or peptide conjugates and in a preferred embodiment novel interferon gamma IFN conjugates that have been created by the chemical coupling of polymers such as polyethylene glycol moieties to variants of proteins and peptides and methods of making and using such conjugates. The invention also relates to methods for producing proteins and peptides that lack essential disulfides and contain at least one free cysteine residue such proteins including but not limited to IFN .

There is considerable interest on the part of patients and healthcare providers in the development of low cost long acting user friendly protein therapeutics. Proteins are expensive to manufacture and unlike conventional small molecule drugs are not readily absorbed by the body. Therefore proteins must be administered by injection. Most proteins are cleared rapidly from the body necessitating frequent often daily injections. This is particularly the case for small peptides which often have half lives on the order of minutes following injections into humans. Patients dislike injections which leads to reduced compliance and reduced drug efficacy. The length of time an injected protein remains in the body is finite and is determined by the protein s size and whether or not the protein contains covalent modifications such as glycosylation.

Introduction of proteins into circulation exposes the proteins to numerous cell types enzymes and routes of extravasation that contribute to their rapid clearance or catabolism. The protein may be attacked by plasma proteases or bind plasma proteins or cell surface receptors. Either receptor mediated or less specific binding may result in the uptake of the protein via endocytotic or pinocytotic mechanisms with the end result being degradation by lysosomal proteases. Proteins that avoid capture by these cells may pass out of the circulation via uptake by the liver the lymphatic system or renal glomeruli Sheffield 2001 .

Circulating concentrations of injected proteins change constantly often by several orders of magnitude over a 24 hour period. Rapidly changing concentrations of protein agonists can have dramatic downstream consequences at times understimulating and at other times overstimulating target cells. Similar problems plague protein antagonists. These fluctuations can lead to decreased efficacy and increased frequency of adverse side effects for protein therapeutics. The rapid clearance of recombinant proteins from the body significantly increases the amount of protein required per patient and dramatically increase the cost of treatment. Most protein products currently on the market require frequent injections usually multiple times per week. This dosing regimen is painful inconvenient for the patient and may not provide the optimum therapeutic benefit. In the case of a chronic indication such as cancer or an immunodeficiency treatment could last for years.

Thus there is a strong need to develop protein delivery technologies that lower the costs of protein therapeutics to patients and healthcare providers. One solution to this problem is the development of methods to prolong the circulating half lives of protein therapeutics in the body so that the proteins do not have to be injected frequently. This solution also satisfies the needs and desires of patients for protein therapeutics that are user friendly i.e. protein therapeutics that do not require frequent injections.

Many bioactive peptides have been described including glucagon glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GLP 2 Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP PYY exendin ghrelin gastrin amylin and oxyntomoldulin. These peptides typically are 10 40 amino acids in length. Methods to develop longer acting forms of these peptides are desired.

In addition larger proteins such as interferon gamma IFN are of high interest as therapeutics. IFN was first recognized over 35 years ago on the basis of its anti viral activity Wheelock 1965 . Over the years a great deal of information has accumulated that validates IFN s role in modulating nearly all phases of immune and inflammatory processes. IFN belongs to a family of proteins related both structurally and by their ability to protect cells from viral infection. The interferon family has three main members now designated interferon alpha IFN interferon beta IFN and interferon gamma IFN . The latter which is also known as immune or type II interferon has several properties related to immunoregulation that makes it different from the other IFNs. For example IFN has a 10 fold lower specific anti viral activity than either IFN or IFN . On the other hand IFN is 100 10 000 times more active as an immune system modulator than are the other classes of interferon having potent phagocyte activating effects not seen with other interferon types Pace et al. 1985 .

IFN is a 20 25 kDa glycoprotein that exists as a homodimer in solution. Recombinant IFN has an elimination half life in the bloodstream after intravenous iv administration of 25 35 min and is essentially undetectable after 4 hours depending on the dose. The subcutaneous sc route generally results in a somewhat extended half life of 5 6 hours see review by Younes and Amsden 2002 . The recommended dosing schedule for IFN is a sc injection of 50 g mthree times weekly. Relevant to this invention is the fact that IFN has a short elimination half life whether given iv or sc and thus requires relatively frequent re administration.

Several studies have demonstrated that continuous exposure to IFN enhances the protein s potency. Researchers have investigated the benefits of continuous infusion of IFN versus once daily intraperitoneal injections in infected mice. Daily dosing of IFN did induce anti microbial resistance but these effects were considerably enhanced by continuous administration of a comparable dose 47 reduction in liver parasite burden versus 9 Murray 1990 . In a similar study mice were infected with . Continuous delivery of IFN via an external pump prolonged survival longer than did daily intramuscular IFN injections 12 vs. 4 days longer than controls Flynn et al. 1993 . These studies suggest a superior therapeutic benefit from constant circulating levels of IFN . Unfortunately continuous infusion of IFN is not practical for most patients. Therefore the need still exists for a long acting form of IFN .

Covalent modification of proteins with polyethylene glycol PEG has proven to be a useful method to extend the circulating half lives of proteins in the body Abuchowski et al. 1984 Meyers et al. 1991 Keating et al. 1993 . Several PEGylated proteins are approved for use in humans or are in human clinical trials Harris et al. 2003 . Covalent attachment of PEG to a protein increases the protein s effective size and reduces its rate of clearance from the body presumably through interference with protein removal pathways including kidney glomerular filtration proteolytic degradation as well as active clearance via specific receptors.

Given the therapeutic value of long acting forms of IFN as well as other therapeutic proteins and peptides there is a continued need in the art to provide new variants of IFN that have improved stability higher potency greater solubility longer circulating half lives for less frequent dosing and reduced antigenicity as compared to the parent native protein. In addition since expression of recombinant proteins containing free cysteine residues has been problematic due to reactivity of the free sulfhydryl at physiological conditions there also remains a need in the art for improved cost effective methods for manufacturing producing such proteins that result in high yields of biologically active product.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method for refolding an insoluble protein or peptide that lacks essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine residue comprising the following steps a causing a host cell to express a protein or peptide that lacks essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine residue in an insoluble or aggregated form b lysing the host cell c isolating the protein or peptide d denaturing and reducing the protein or peptide in a solution comprising both a denaturing agent and a reducing agent wherein said reducing agent does not form a mixed disulfide with the free cysteine in the protein or peptide and wherein said reducing agent does not inactivate a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol PEG or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent and e refolding the protein by reducing the concentrations of the denaturing agent and reducing agents in the solution of d to levels sufficient to allow the protein or peptide to renature into a soluble biologically active form.

In one aspect the step of lysing can be performed by chemical enzymatic or physical means. In one aspect the step of lysing comprises lysing the host cell in the presence of a denaturing agent. In another aspect the step of lysing comprises lysing the host cell in the presence of a denaturing agent and the reducing agent used in step d .

In one aspect of the method the denaturing agent is selected from the group consisting of urea guanidine and N lauroyl sarcosine.

In one aspect of the method the reducing agent in step d is a reducing agent that does not contain a thiol moiety. In another aspect the reducing agent in step d is a phosphine reductant. In one aspect the reducing agent in step d is an alkyl phosphine. In one aspect the alkyl phosphine can include but is not limited to a butyl phosphine a hydroxypropyl phosphine a cyanoethyl phosphine and a carboxyethyl phosphine. In one aspect the alkyl phosphine can include but is not limited to tri n butylphosphine TBP tris hydroxypropyl phosphine THP tris 2 cyanoethyl phosphine TCNP and tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine TCEP or a combination thereof. In a preferred aspect the alkyl phosphine is an ester of a carboxyethyl phosphine. In another preferred aspect the reducing agent is Tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine HCl TCEP .

In one aspect of the method step e occurs in the presence of sufficient reducing agent to prevent the protein from forming disulfide bonds. In one aspect step e of refolding comprises refolding the protein in the presence of glycerol. In one aspect step e of refolding comprises refolding the protein in the presence of an oxidizing agent selected from oxygen iodine hydrogen peroxide dihydroascorbic acid tetrathionate or O iodosobenzoate. In one aspect step e of refolding comprises refolding the protein in the presence of a metal ion. Such a metal ion can include but is not limited to Cu or Co.

The method of the invention can further include a step of isolating the refolded protein or peptide from other proteins and contaminants in the refold mixture. In one aspect the protein is isolated from other contaminants in the refold mixture by column chromatography. For example in one aspect the column chromatography buffers can contain a reducing agent wherein said reducing agent does not form a mixed disulfide with the free cysteine in the protein or peptide and wherein said reducing agent does not inactivate a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol PEG or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent. In one aspect the reducing agent used in the column is the same reducing agent used in step d .

The method of the invention can also include a further step of exposing the protein or peptide to a cysteine reactive moiety to obtain a cysteine modified protein wherein the cysteine reactive moiety is attached to at least one added cysteine in said isolated protein or peptide. In one aspect the step of exposing is conducted in the presence of a reducing agent. For example in one aspect the reducing agent is the same reducing agent used in step d . Cysteine reactive moieties can include but are not limited to a polyethylene glycol a polyvinyl pyrolidone a carbohydrate a dextran a peptide a lipid and a polysaccharide. In a preferred embodiment the cysteine reactive moiety is a polyethylene glycol.

The proteins to be refolded using the method of the invention can include any protein or peptide that lacks essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine residue including but not limited to a cysteine variant of interferon gamma IFN a cysteine variant of interleukin 11 or a cysteine variant of growth hormone. In one aspect the protein is a cysteine variant of IFN and the amino acid Q1 is deleted or substituted by a non glutamine amino acid and or the amino acid D2 is deleted or substituted by a non aspartic acid amino acid. Peptides that can be refolded using the method of the invention include but are not limited to a cysteine variant of a bioactive peptide selected from glucagon glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GLP 2 Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP PYY exendin ghrelin gastrin amylin and oxyntomodulin.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine variant of interferon gamma IFN SEQ ID NO 1 isolated from step e of the method of refolding of Claim wherein the cysteine variant of IFN does not contain mixed disulfides.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method for refolding an insoluble protein or peptide that lacks essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine residue comprising the following steps a causing a host cell to express a protein or peptide that lacks essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine residue in an insoluble or aggregated form b lysing the host cell c isolating the protein or peptide d denaturing and reducing the protein or peptide in a solution comprising both a denaturing agent and a reducing agent e refolding the protein by reducing the concentrations of the denaturing agent and reducing agents in the solution of d to levels sufficient to allow the protein or peptide to renature into a soluble biologically active form f isolating the protein from other contaminants in the refold mixture by column chromatography wherein the column chromatography buffers contain a reducing agent wherein said reducing agent does not form a mixed disulfide with the free cysteine in the protein or peptide and wherein said reducing agent does not inactivate a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol PEG or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent. In one aspect the reducing agent in step f is TCEP.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine variant of interferon gamma IFN SEQ ID NO 1 wherein a cysteine residue is substituted for at least one amino acid located in at least one region of IFN gamma selected from the group consisting of the E F loop and the region following helix F. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from V99 V100 T101 D102 L103 P122 A123 A124 K125 T126 G127 K128 R129 K130 R131 S132 Q133 M134 L135 F136 R137 G138 R139 R140 A141 S143 or Q143. In one aspect the variant is modified with a cysteine reactive moiety such as a polyethylene glycol. In one aspect Q1 is deleted or substituted by a non glutamine amino acid. In another aspect D2 is deleted or substituted by a non aspartic acid amino acid.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for treating a disease treatable with IFN gamma comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a cysteine variant of IFN gamma as described herein. Such a disease includes but is not limited to chronic granulomatous disease severe malignant osteopetrosis or cancer.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 SEQ ID NO 9 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in GLP 1 or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of GLP 1 or following the last amino acid of GLP 1. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 V10 S11 S12 Y13 L13 E14 G15 Q16 A17 A18 K19 E20 F21 I22 A23 W24 L25 V26 K27 G28 R29 or G30. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of GLP 1 or following the last amino acid of GLP 1.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of exendin SEQ ID NO 11 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in exendin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of exendin or following the last amino acid of exendin. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 G2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 L10 S11 K12 Q13 M14 E15 E16 E17 A18 V19 R20 L21 F22 I23 E24 W25 L26 K27 N28 G29 G30 P31 S32 S33 G34 A35 P36 P37 and S38. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of exendin or following the last amino acid of exendin.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of amylin SEQ ID NO 17 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in amylin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of amylin or following the last amino acid of amylin. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of K1 N3 T4 A5 T6 A8 T9 Q10 R11 L12 A13 N14 F15 L16 V17 H18 S19 S20 N21 N22 F23 G24 A25 I26 L27 S28 S29 T30 N31 V32 G33 S34 N35 T36 and Y37. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of amylin or following the last amino acid of amylin.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of glucagon SEQ ID NO 8 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in glucagon or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of glucagon or following the last amino acid of glucagon. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 K12 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 N28 and T29. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of glucagon or following the last amino acid of glucagon.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of GLP 2 SEQ ID NO 10 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in GLP 2 or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of GLP 2 or following the last amino acid of GLP 2. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 D3 G4 S5 F6 S7 D8 E9 M10 N11 T12 I13 L14 D15 N16 L17 A18 A19 R20 D21 F22 I23 N24 W25 L26 I27 Q28 T29 K30 I31 T32 and D33. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of GLP 2 or following the last amino acid of GLP 2.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of Peptide YY PYY SEQ ID NO 12 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in PYY or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of PYY or following the last amino acid of PYY. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 P2 I3 K4 P5 E6 A7 P8 G9 E10 D11 A12 S13 P14 E15 E16 L17 N18 R19 Y20 Y21 A22 S23 L24 R25 H26 Y27 L28 N29 L30 V31 T32 R33 Q34 R35 and Y36. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of PYY or following the last amino acid of PYY.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of ghrelin SEQ ID NO 13 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in ghrelin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of ghrelin or following the last amino acid of ghrelin. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of G1 S2 S3 F4 L5 S6 P7 E8 H9 Q10 R11 V12 Q13 Q14 R15 K16 E17 S18 K19 K20 P21 P22 A23 K24 L25 Q26 P27 and R28. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of ghrelin or following the last amino acid of ghrelin. In one aspect S3 of ghrelin is acetylated.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to cysteine analog of oxyntomodulin SEQ ID NO 14 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in oxyntomodulin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of oxyntomodulin or following the last amino acid of oxyntomodulin. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 K12 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 D28 T29 K30 R31 N32 K33 N34 N35 I36 and A37. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of oxyntomodulin or following the last amino acid of oxyntomodulin.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a cysteine analog of GIP SEQ ID NO 16 wherein a cysteine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in GIP or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of GIP or following the last amino acid of GIP. In one aspect a cysteine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 I7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 I12 A13 M14 D15 K16 I17 H18 Q19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 N24 W25 L26 L27 A28 Q29 K30 G31 K32 K33 N34 D35 W36 K37 H38 N39 I40 T41 and Q42. In another aspect a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of GIP or following the last amino acid of GIP.

In one aspect of any of the above identified embodiments related to cysteine analogs the added cysteine residue is modified with a cysteine reactive moiety. For example the cysteine reactive moiety can include but is not limited to a polyethylene glycol.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of amylin SEQ ID NO 17 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in amylin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of amylin or following the last amino acid of amylin. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of N3 T4 A5 T6 A8 T9 Q10 R11 L12 A13 N14 F15 L16 V17 H18 S19 S20 N21 N22 F23 G24 A25 I26 L27 S28 S29 T30 N31 V32 G33 S34 N35 T36 and Y37. In another aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of amylin or following the last amino acid of amylin. In one aspect K1 is changed to a non lysine amino acid.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of glucagon SEQ ID NO 8 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in glucagon or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of glucagon or following the last amino acid of glucagon. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 N28 and T29. In another aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of glucagon or following the last amino acid of glucagon. In one aspect K12 is changed to a non lysine amino acid.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 SEQ ID NO 9 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in GLP 1 or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of GLP 1 or following the last amino acid of GLP 1. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 V10 S11 S12 Y13 L13 E14 G15 Q16 A17 A18 E20 F21 I22 A23 W24 L25 V26 G28 R29 and G30. In one aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of GLP 1 or following the last amino acid of GLP 1. In another aspect K20 is changed to a non lysine amino acid. In one aspect K28 is changed to a non lysine amino acid. In another aspect K20 and K28 are changed to non lysine amino acids or K19 and K27 are changed to non lysine amino acids.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of GLP 2 SEQ ID NO 10 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in GLP 2 or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of GLP 2 or following the last amino acid of GLP 2. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 D3 G4 S5 F6 S7 D8 E9 M10 N11 T12 I13 L14 D15 N16 L17 A18 A19 R20 D21 F22 I23 N24 W25 L26 I27 Q28 T29 I31 T32 and D33. In one aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of GLP 2 or following the last amino acid of GLP 2. In another aspect K30 is changed to a non lysine amino acid.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of exendin SEQ ID NO 11 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in exendin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of exendin or following the last amino acid of exendin. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 G2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 L10 S11 Q13 M14 E15 E16 E17 A18 V19 R20 L21 F22 I23 E24 W25 L26 N28 G29 G30 P31 S32 S33 G34 A35 P36 P37 and S38. In another aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of exendin or following the last amino acid of exendin. In one aspect K12 is changed to a non lysine amino acid. In another aspect K27 is changed to a non lysine amino acid. In yet another aspect K12 and K27 are changed to non lysine amino acids.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of oxyntomodulin SEQ ID NO 14 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in oxyntomodulin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of oxyntomodulin or following the last amino acid of oxyntomodulin. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 D28 T29 R31 N32 N34 N35 I36 and A37. In one aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of oxyntomodulin or following the last amino acid of oxyntomodulin. In one aspect an amino acid selected from K12 K30 and K33 is changed to a non lysine amino acid. In one aspect two or more lysine residues selected from the group consisting of K12 K30 and K33 are changed to non lysine amino acids. In one aspect K12 K30 and K33 are changed to non lysine amino acids.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of ghrelin SEQ ID NO 13 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in ghrelin or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of ghrelin or following the last amino acid of ghrelin. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of G1 S2 S3 F4 L5 S6 P7 E8 H9 Q10 R11 V12 Q13 Q14 R15 E17 S18 P21 P22 A23 L25 Q26 P27 and R28. In one aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of ghrelin or following the last amino acid of ghrelin. In one aspect S3 of ghrelin is acetylated. In another aspect an amino acid selected from K16 K19 K20 and K24 is changed to a non lysine amino acid. In one aspect two or more lysine residues selected from the group consisting of K16 K19 K20 and K24 are changed to non lysine amino acids. In another aspect K12 K19 K20 and K24 are changed to non lysine amino acids.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of Peptide YY PYY SEQ ID NO 12 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in PYY or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of PYY or following the last amino acid of PYY. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 P2 I3 P5 E6 A7 P8 G9 E10 D11 A12 S13 P14 E15 E16 L17 N18 R19 Y20 Y21 A22 S23 L24 R25 H26 Y27 L28 N29 L30 V31 T32 R33 Q34 R35 and Y36. In another aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of PYY or following the last amino acid of PYY. In another aspect K4 is changed to a non lysine amino acid.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a lysine analog of GIP SEQ ID NO 16 wherein a lysine residue is added to the peptide either by substitution for a native amino acid in GIP or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of GIP or following the last amino acid of GIP. In one aspect a lysine residue is substituted for an amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 I7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 I12 A13 M14 D15 I17 H18 Q19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 N24 W25 L26 L27 A28 Q29 G31 N34 D35 W36 H38 N39 I40 T41 and Q42. In one aspect a lysine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of GIP or following the last amino acid of GIP. In another aspect an amino acid selected from K16 K30 K32 K33 and K37 is changed to a non lysine amino acid. In one aspect two or more lysine residues selected from the group consisting of K16 K30 K32 K33 and K37 are changed to non lysine amino acids. In another aspect K16 K30 K32 K33 and K37 are changed to non lysine amino acids.

In any of the above embodiments related to lysine analogs in one aspect the added lysine residue is modified with an amine reactive moiety. For example such an amine reactive moiety can include but is not limited to a polyethylene glycol.

One embodiment of the invention describes novel polymer IFN conjugates that have been created by the chemical coupling of polymers such as polyethylene glycol moieties to IFN . Based on the present inventors work these novel IFN based protein polymer conjugates will have improved stability higher potency greater solubility longer circulating half lives for less frequent dosing and reduced antigenicity as compared to the parent native or wild type protein. Methods of making and using the variants are encompassed by the invention.

Additional embodiments of the invention related to novel analogs of bioactive peptides that may be used to create longer acting versions of the peptides. The longer acting peptides are useful because they can be administered at lower doses and less frequently than the unmodified peptides. Such bioactive peptides include but are not limited to glucagon glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GLP 2 Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP PYY exendin ghrelin gastrin amylin and oxyntomoldulin. Methods of making and using such peptides are also encompassed by the invention.

In one embodiment the invention provides a novel method for producing and particularly refolding the novel IFN based protein polymer conjugates of the invention which can be extended to the production of any protein or peptide that does not contain essential disulfides i.e. disulfides that are essential for the proper folding and or biological activity of the protein and that contains at least one free cysteine residue.

Various aspects of the present invention are described in detail below although particular examples are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

One embodiment of the present invention relates to a novel method to refold a protein or a peptide that does not contain essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine. More particularly cysteine residues in most proteins participate in disulfide bonds and are not available for derivatization without significant loss of bioactivity. These disulfide bonds are referred to herein as essential disulfides in that they are required for the proper folding and or the biological activity of the protein. However some proteins and peptides contain non essential disulfides i.e. disulfide bonds that are not required for the proper folding of the protein and or are not required for biological activity of the protein. In addition some proteins and peptides contain no native cysteine residues and thus contain no native disulfide bonds. In addition some proteins naturally contain or can be modified to contain one or more free cysteine residues that do not participate in disulfides. For example through in vitro site directed mutagenesis techniques additional cysteine residues can be introduced at a specified site on a protein or peptide e.g. by substitution or insertion. Any free cysteine in a protein or peptide including a free cysteine that occurs in the native wild type protein a free cysteine that is created by deleting or substituting a non cysteine residue for one cysteine in a non essential disulfide or a newly added free cysteine e.g. as a result of substitution of a cysteine for a non cysteine residue or the insertion of a cysteine into a protein or peptide can then serve as the site for the specific conjugation with a thiol reactive moiety e.g. thiol reactive polyethylene glycol . The present invention provides a novel method of efficiently and effectively producing such proteins and peptides in a cost effective manner.

Accordingly the present invention encompasses a wide variety of recombinant proteins and cysteine variants of these proteins. Examples of proteins that can be refolded using the method of the invention include but are not limited to cysteine variants of interferon gamma IFN interleukin 11 IL 11 growth hormone glucagon glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GLP 2 Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP PYY exendin ghrelin gastrin amylin oxyntomoldulin and other proteins and peptides that do not contain native cysteine residues. Any protein or peptide that has at least one free cysteine native or added by modification of the protein or peptide and does not otherwise contain essential disulfides can be refolded using this method. Such proteins include proteins that lack essential disulfides but contain at least one free cysteine that is not involved in a disulfide bond proteins that lack essential disulfides but contain non essential disulfides where the protein has been modified to delete one of the cysteines in the non essential disulfide pair leaving one free cysteine or proteins or peptides in which a free cysteine has been added by inserting it before the first amino acid of the protein or after the last amino acid of the protein or by inserting it between two of the native amino acid residues or by substituting a cysteine residue for a non cysteine residue in the protein.

The method of the invention generally includes the steps of a causing a host cell to express a protein or peptide that lacks essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine residue in an insoluble or aggregated form b lysing the host cell c isolating the protein or peptide d denaturing and reducing the protein or peptide in a solution comprising both a denaturing agent and a reducing agent wherein said reducing agent does not form a mixed disulfide with the free cysteine in the protein or peptide and wherein said reducing agent does not inactivate a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol PEG or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent and e refolding the protein by reducing the concentrations of the denaturing agent and reducing agents in the solution of d to levels sufficient to allow the protein or peptide to renature into a soluble biologically active form. If the user of the method is provided with an isolated insoluble or aggregated protein or peptide that lacks essential disulfides and that comprises at least one free cysteine residue then the method can also begin with step d since steps a through c may have been performed independently. In another embodiment the cell can be lysed directly into the solution comprising the denaturing agent and the reducing agent described above rather than isolating the protein first as in step c . Optionally in any of the above methods the refolded soluble protein can be isolated from other proteins in the refold mixture. In a preferred embodiment the refolded protein is isolated from other proteins in the refold mixture by column chromatography. Preferably the column chromatography buffers used to isolate the refolded protein contain a reducing agent that does not inactivate a thiol reactive PEG reagent or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent. In another embodiment a reducing agent that does inactivate a thiol reactive PEG can be used to reduce the protein in step d but the protein is purified subsequently using column buffers that contain a reducing agent that does not inactivate a thiol reactive PEG reagent or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent.

One advantage of the method of the invention however is that the proteins do not necessarily have to be purified away from the reducing agent used in step d prior to further modification with a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol because the reducing agent does not inactivate PEG or interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent. In methods described prior to the invention a protein refolded using other thiol reactive reducing agents e.g. DTT cysteine that do inactivate thiol reactive PEGs or interfere with modification of a protein with a thiol reactive PEG would have to be dialyzed to remove the reducing agent prior to PEGylation. Therefore PEGylation of proteins refolded by the method of the invention is more efficient and removes a step in the PEGylation process and thus is more cost effective . In addition the use of a reducing agent specified in the present method does not form a mixed disulfide with the free cysteine in the protein or peptide and does not inactivate a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol PEG or interfere with modification of a protein with a thiol reactive PEG the resulting product is qualitatively better than with certain reducing agents e.g. cysteine because the resulting refolded protein is mostly non disulfide bonded and monomeric or homodimeric in the case of interferon gamma whereas other reducing agents can produce more disulfide linked dimers tetramers or multimers or undesired disulfide linked aggregates. The monomeric form or in the case of certain proteins e.g. interferon gamma a homodimeric form is the preferred commercial product and so methods that enhance the ability to produce and recover these preferred forms is of great value.

Accordingly the use of a reducing agent such as the exemplary TCEP in the method of the invention both improves the quality of the refolded product i.e. more non disulfide bonded product and allows efficient PEGylation of the refolded product because the agent does not have to be removed prior to PEGylation. Indeed if desired such a reducing agent could be added as a reducing agent in the PEGylation process or purification steps prior to PEGylation to facilitate the PEGylation reaction.

The reducing agent for use in the denaturing and reducing step d and in some embodiments in subsequent steps is preferably a phosphine reductant and more preferably an alkyl phosphine. Exemplary alkyl phosphines for use in the methods of the present invention include but are not limited to alkyl phosphines such as tri n butylphosphine TBP hydroxypropyl phosphines such as tris hydroxypropyl phosphine THP cyanoethyl phosphines such as tris 2 cyanoethyl phosphine TCNP carboxyethyl phosphines such as tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine TCEP and any combination of these reductants. Additionally esters of the carboxyethyl phosphines such as monomethyl dimethyl or trimethyl esters of tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine TCEP or combinations thereof may be used in the denaturing and reducing reactions of the inventive processes. The selection of the appropriate phosphine reductant s for use in the methods of the present invention will depend upon the chemical characteristics of the isolated protein or peptide to be refolded using the methodology described herein. For example a protein isolated and stabilized at an acidic pH less than about 5.5 having one or more free cysteine residues may require a phosphine reducing agent having a stronger reducing reactivity at a lower pH such as the trimethylester of TCEP while retaining the biochemical characteristics of acting in concert with a denaturing agent in a single denaturing and reducing step and limited or absent inhibitory effect on the PEGylation reaction such that it does not need to be removed by dialysis or other methods prior to PEGylation. Similarly a protein isolated and stabilized at a more basic pH of about 8.0 having one or more free cysteine residues may require a phosphine reducing agent having a stronger reducing reactivity at a higher pH such as TCEP. Preferably the reducing agent for use in the protein denaturing and reducing reactions of the present invention is an alkyl phosphine more preferably the reducing agent is an ester derivative of TCEP and most preferably the reducing agent is TCEP.

In another embodiment the reducing agent for use in the denaturing and reducing steps and or in subsequent reducing steps of the method of the invention is a reducing agent that does not contain a sulfur moiety.

As identified above the first step in the method of the invention is to cause a host cell to express a protein having a free cysteine residue in an insoluble or aggregated form. Suitable host cells can be prokaryotic or eukaryotic. Examples of appropriate host cells that can be used to express recombinant proteins include bacteria yeast insect and mammalian cells. Bacteria cells are particularly useful especially . Methods of causing a host cell to express a protein are well known in the art and examples are provided herein.

As used herein the term protein having a free cysteine residue means any natural or recombinant protein or peptide that contains 2N 1 cysteine residues where N can be 0 or any integer and any natural or recombinant protein or peptide that contain 2N cysteines where two or more of the cysteines do not normally participate in a disulfide bond. Thus the methods of the present invention are useful in enhancing the expression recovery and purification of any protein or peptide having a free cysteine particularly cysteine added variant recombinant proteins referred to herein as cysteine muteins or cysteine variants having one or more free cysteines. As previously discussed the invention is primarily intended to be used for proteins that do not contain an essential disulfide two cysteines that form a disulfide bond that is essential to the ability of the protein to fold and or have biological activity . Although the expression recovery and purification of a natural protein having a free cysteine expressed by its natural host cell can be enhanced by the methods of the present invention the description herein predominantly refers to recombinant proteins for illustrative purposes only. In addition the proteins can be derived from any animal species including human companion animals and farm animals. The proteins also can be derived from plant species or microbes.

In one step of the method after the protein is expressed by the cell the host cell is lysed. Cell lysis can occur prior to or coincident with the solubilization procedures described herein. Cell lysis can be accomplished by for example mechanical sheer such as a French pressure cell enzymatic digestion sonication homogenization glass bead vortexing detergent treatment organic solvents freeze thaw grinding with alumina or sand treatment with a denaturing agent as defined below and the like Bollag et al. 1996 . Optionally the cells can be lysed in the presence of a denaturing agent and a disulfide reducing agent preferably those in the solution used to solubilize the protein. Optionally insoluble or aggregated material can be separated from soluble proteins prior to the solubilization step by various methods such as centrifugation filtration including ultrafiltration precipitation floculation or settling.

Next the insoluble or aggregated material or whole cells without prior lysis is rendered soluble or monomeric by exposing the insoluble or aggregated material or whole cells without prior lysis to a solution comprising both a denaturing agent and a disulfide reducing agent that does not form a mixed disulfide with the free cysteine in the protein or peptide and does not inactivate a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol PEG .

Useful denaturing agents include urea guandine arginine sodium thiocyanate extremes in pH dilute acids or bases detergents SDS sarkosyl salts chlorides nitrates thiocyanates cetylmethylammonium salts trichloroacetates chemical derivatization sulfitolysis reaction with citraconic anhydride solvents 2 amino 2 methyl 1 propanol or other alcohols DMSO DMF or strong anion exchange resins such as Q Sepharose. Useful concentrations of urea are 1 8 M with 5 8 M being preferred concentrations. Useful concentrations of guanidine are 1 8 M with 4 8 M being preferred concentrations.

Useful disulfide reducing agents are any reducing agents that do not form a mixed disulfide with the free cysteine in the protein or peptide and that do not inactivate a thiol reactive polyethylene glycol PEG or interfere with modification of the protein with a thiol reactive PEG. In one embodiment such a reducing agent is a phosphine reductant and more preferably an alkyl phosphine. In one embodiment an alkyl phosphine includes but is not limited to an alkyl phosphine such as tri n butylphosphine TBP a hydroxypropyl phosphine such as tris hydroxypropyl phosphine THP a cyanoethyl phosphine such as tris 2 cyanoethyl phosphine TCNP a carboxyethyl phosphine such as tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine TCEP and any combination of these reductants. In one embodiment the reducing agent is an ester of the carboxyethyl phosphines such as monomethyl dimethyl or trimethyl esters of tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine TCEP or combinations thereof. In one preferred embodiment the reducing agent is an ester derivative of TCEP and most preferably the reducing agent is TCEP. In one embodiment the reducing agent is a reducing agent that does not contain a sulfur moiety.

These reducing agents can be used in the range of 0.5 to 200 mM with 1 50 mM being preferred concentrations. Notably it is not necessary to use a cysteine blocking agent in the method of the invention because the method is used to refold proteins that do not contain lack essential disulfides and so there is no need to block the free cysteines in the protein. Accordingly in one aspect the reducing agent is not a cysteine blocking agent. Preferably the pH of the denaturation reduction mixture is between pH 6 and pH 10.

The next step in the method of the invention is to refold the protein to obtain the protein s native conformation so that it can be further modified in biologically active form by a polymer such as polyethylene glycol. Refolding is achieved by reducing the concentrations of the denaturing agent and reducing agent to levels sufficient to allow the protein to renature into a soluble biologically active form. This can be achieved through dialysis dilution gel filtration precipitation of the protein or by immobilization on a resin followed by buffer washes. Preferably a reagent or combination of reagents are chosen that result in refolding of the protein while maintaining the protein in a reduced state so that the free cysteine s in the protein can be derivatized. Optionally the reducing agent used in the refold step can be added to the dialysis buffer to keep the protein reduced during the renaturation process. Useful concentrations of the reducing agent in the dialysis buffer are 1 M to 100 mM with 0.1 mM to 10 mM being a preferred concentration and 1 mM being the most preferred concentration. Optionally a metal ion such as copper Cu or cobalt Co can be added to the refold mixture to promote protein oxidation. Useful concentrations of metal ions in the refold mixture are 1 M to 1 mM with 40 M being a preferred concentration. Preferably the pH of the refold mixture is between pH 6 and pH 10.

Optionally the refolded soluble protein containing a free cysteine residue is recovered and isolated from other proteins in the soluble fraction of the refold mixture. Such recovery and purification methods are known or readily determined by those skilled in the art including for example centrifugation filtration dialysis chromatography including size exclusion ion exchange hydrophobic interaction and affinity chromatography procedures and the like. A suitable method for the recovery and purification of a desired protein will depend in part on the properties of the protein and the intended use. In a preferred embodiment the refolded protein is isolated from other proteins in the refold mixture by column chromatography. Preferably the column chromatography buffers used to isolate the refolded protein contain a reducing agent that does not inactivate a thiol reactive PEG reagent or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent. Useful concentrations of the reducing agent in the column chromatography buffers are 1 M to 100 mM with 0.1 mM to 10 mM being a preferred concentration and 1 mM being the most preferred concentration. If a reducing agent that does inactivate a thiol reactive PEG is used to reduce the protein in step d above the protein may be isolated from other proteins in the refold mixture using column chromatography buffers that contain a reducing agent that does not inactivate a thiol reactive PEG reagent or does not interfere with modification of the protein by a thiol reactive PEG reagent.

The purified proteins obtained according to these methods can be further processed if desired and indeed the method of the invention is particularly useful for subsequent modification of the protein or peptide at the free cysteine residue with various cysteine reactive moieties. For example the proteins can be PEGylated at the free cysteine residue with various cysteine reactive PEG reagents and subsequently purified as monoPEGylated proteins. The term monoPEGylated is defined to mean a protein modified by covalent attachment of a single PEG molecule to the protein. Any method known to those skilled in the art can be used to purify the PEGylated protein from unmodified protein and unreacted PEG reagents including for example the methods described in the Examples below and in PCT US98 14497 and PCT US00 00931. Examples of other useful cysteine reactive moieties are cysteine reactive dextrans cysteine reactive carbohydrates and cysteine reactive poly N vinylpyrrolidone s.

One exemplary method of refolding a protein according to the present invention is described in detail in Example 3 wherein the reducing agent is TCEP. This example is for purposes of illustration only and the invention is not limited to the details presented in this example.

The present invention further relates to purified monoPEGylated or PEGylated protein variants produced by the methods disclosed herein that are not only biologically active but also retain high specific activity in protein dependent mammalian cell proliferation assays.

PEGs are commercially available in several sizes 2 40 kDa and shapes linear and branched allowing the circulating half lives of PEG modified proteins to be tailored for individual indications through the use of different PEGs. PEGylation increases a protein s effective molecular weight more than would be expected based on the molecular weight of the PEG moiety due to the water of hydration associated with the PEG group. For example attachment of a single 5 kDa PEG to a 36 kDa protein increases the effective molecular weight of the complex to greater than 100 kDa as measured by size exclusion chromatography Fee 2003 . When administered by subcutaneous injection PEGylated proteins are slowly absorbed from the injection site thus avoiding the serum spikes seen after subcutaneous injection of an unmodified protein. This controlled release of the PEGylated protein results in a more constant serum level thus prolonging or increasing the drug s pharmacologic activity while minimizing the side effects typically seen with fluctuations in the drug concentrations. Other documented in vivo benefits of PEG modification include an increase in protein solubility enhanced stability possibly due to protection from proteases and a decrease in immunogenicity Keating et al. 1993 .

A PEG moiety can be attached to the N terminal amino acid a cysteine residue either native or non native lysines either native or non native or other reactive native or non native amino acids in the protein s primary sequence. A non native amino acid is defined as an amino acid that is not normally located at that position in the protein an amino acid analog that is not commonly seen in native proteins or an amino acid or amino acid analog that has been chemically modified to allow conjugation with a polymer such as polyethylene glycol. Although specific examples are provided herein with respect to the PEGylation of IFN it is to be understood that any protein or peptide having a free cysteine and that is produced by the method of the invention can be PEGylated using the methods described below.

The most common route for PEG conjugation of proteins is to use a PEG with a functional group that reacts with lysines and or the N terminal amino acid group. The literature describes more than a dozen such procedures see reviews by Hooftman et al. 1996 Delgato et al. 1992 and Zalipsky 1995 . Examples of amine reactive PEGs include PEG dichlorotriazine PEG tresylate PEG succinimidyl carbonate PEG benzotriazole carbonate PEG p nitrophenyl carbonate PEG carbonylimidazole PEG succinimidyl succinate PEG propionaldehyde PEG acetaldehyde and PEG hydroxysuccinimide.

Dimeric IFN has 42 potential sites two N termini and 40 lysines for conjugation with an amine reactive PEG. Multiple attachments may occur if the protein is exposed to an excess amount of PEGylation reagent. Preferably the IFN PEG conjugate would have 1 5 PEGs attached to the dimeric protein more preferred would be 1 3 attachments and most preferred 1 2 attachments. Conditions can be adjusted to limit the number of attachments or the site of attachments. The number of attachments can be titrated by varying the molar ratios of the PEG Protein. Preferred ratios can be determined experimentally. A second method for varying the number of attachments is by modifying the reaction conditions. For example the coupling can be preferentially directed to the alpha terminus of a protein chain by performing the reaction at a pH lower than 7 and preferably below 6.5. Above pH 8 the epsilon NH3 groups found on the lysines will be most reactive. Morpurgo and Veronese 2004 . A third approach to controlling the number or location of the PEG conjugates is to conduct the PEGylation in the presence of a substrate reversible inhibitor or binding protein so that the active site or receptor binding site is protected during coupling. A fourth approach to controlling the number of attachments involves using a larger PEG. For example when interferon alpha is modified with a small linear polymer up to 11 positional isomers are present in the final mixture. When interferon alpha is modified with a larger 40 kDa branched PEG only four main positional isomers are present in the mono PEGylated protein Monkarsh et al. 1997 Foser et al. 2003 Baillon et al. 2003 . A fifth method to control the number of attached PEGs is to use column chromatography procedures ion exchange size exclusion or hydrophobic interaction to purify a IFN conjugate containing the desired number of PEG molecules from a more complex IFN PEG mixture. Amine PEGylation of IFN has been described by Kita et al. 1990 . Amino acids 1 and lysine 129 or lysine 131 were modified by amine reactive PEGs.

A second method for PEGylating proteins covalently attaches PEG to cysteine residues using thiol reactive PEGs. A number of highly specific thiol reactive PEGs with different reactive groups e.g. PEG ortho pyridyl disulfide PEG maleimide PEG vinylsulfone and PEG iodoacetamide different size PEGs 2 40 kDa different shaped PEGs linear or branched and different end group hydroxyl carboxylic acid methoxy or other alkoxy group are commercially available. The conjugates are hydrolytically stable and the PEGylation reactions can be performed at neutral pH.

As discussed above cysteine residues in most proteins participate in disulfide bonds essential disulfides and are not available for derivatization. However any free cysteine in a protein or peptide including a free cysteine that occurs in the native wild type protein a free cysteine that is created by deleting or substituting a non cysteine residue for one cysteine in a non essential disulfide or a newly added free cysteine e.g. as a result of substitution of a cysteine for a non cysteine residue or the insertion of a cysteine into a protein or peptide will serve as the site for the specific attachment of a PEG molecule thus avoiding the product heterogeneity that is often seen with amine PEGylation reactions. The added cysteine must be exposed on the protein s surface and be accessible for PEGylation for this method to be successful. If the chosen site is non essential e.g. for proper folding or biological activity of the protein then the PEGylated protein will display wild type normal or near wild type in vitro bioactivity.

A free thiol group can also be introduced into the primary amino acid sequence of a protein by chemical modification of lysine. One such example involves treatment of the protein with Traut s reagent 2 Iminothiolane hydrochloride . Alternatively the protein can be treated with reagents such as N succinimidyl S acetylthioacetate SATA or N succinimidyl S acetylthiopropionate SATP that introduce a protected sulfhydryl which can be deprotected prior to exposure to a thiol reactive PEG. Alternatively a free cysteine can be introduced by deleting or mutating a native cysteine that normally forms a disulfide bond to another amino acid such as a serine or alanine so that an odd number of cysteines are present in the protein s primary sequence.

It is also possible to genetically introduce two or more additional cysteines that are not able to disulfide bond with each other. In this case two PEGs can be specifically attached to the protein. Alternatively a native disulfide bond can be reduced resulting in two free cysteine residues that are available for thiol specific PEGylation. Free thiol groups can also be introduced by chemical conjugation of a peptide to a protein where the peptide contains a free cysteine group or a cysteine group modified with a reversible thiol blocking agent.

PEG hydrazide can be used to PEGylate the carboxyl groups of amino acids in presence of N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC or in presence of a water soluble coupling agent such as N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC . The carboxyl groups of a protein when activated with EDC at an acidic pH pH 4.5 5 react readily with PEG hydrazide whereas amino groups of the protein are protonated and unreactive. Dimeric IFN has 20 aspartic acids D2 D21 D24 D41 D61 D62 D76 D90 D91 and D102 and 18 glutamic acids E7 E9 E38 E39 E71 E75 E93 E112 and E119 .

Similar to the genetically engineered cysteine mutations for site specific PEGylation researchers have reported the specific incorporation of unnatural amino acids into proteins expressed in yeast in and in mammalian cells Deiters et al. 2004 . Specifically para azidophenylalanine was substituted into a protein at certain sites determined by the positioning of the amber codon. The reactive group on the amino acid analog was used in a mild 3 2 cycloaddition reaction with an alkyne derivatized PEG reagent to allow for site specific conjugation.

Another approach is the attachment of the PEG moiety on the arginine side chain using PEG 1 3 dioxo compounds such as PEG phenylglioxate. The disadvantages of this approach include long reaction times and limited specificity since other amino acids such as histidine and lysine may be modified as well. Dimeric IFN has 16 arginines R42 R89 R107 R129 R131 R137 R139 and R140 .

PEG isocyanate can be used to attach a PEG to a hydroxy group via a stable urethane linkage. The disadvantage of this approach is lack of specificity since it is also capable of reacting with amines. Thus this reagent is more commonly used in PEGylation reactions involving polysaccharides or non peptide drugs.

Oxidation of the carbohydrate residues or N terminal serine or threonine is an alternative method for a site specific PEGylation. Carbohydrate side chains can be oxidized with enzymes or chemically with sodium periodate to generate reactive aldehyde groups. These sites can be reacted with either PEG hydrizide or PEG amine to produce a reversible Schiff s base. These linkages are then reduced with sodium cyanoborohydride to a more stable alkyl hydrazide or in the case of the Schiff s base a secondary amine. Multiple attachment sites are generated by this method but the PEG is localized on the carbohydrate chain rather than on the protein.

A similar approach takes advantage of an N terminal serine or threonine. These amino acid residues can be converted by periodate oxidation to a glyoxylyl derivative that will also react with PEG hydrazide or PEG amine. IFN variants in which a serine or threonine residue is added preceding Q1 or substituted for Q1 are contemplated by this invention.

Another approach for PEGylation of proteins uses transglutaminase to modify glutamine residues so that they become reactive with alkylamine derivatives of PEG Sato 2002 . Dimeric IFN has 18 glutamines Q1 Q45 Q47 Q64 Q67 Q106 Q115 Q133 and Q143 .

IFN can be modified to contain an N terminal cysteine or N terminal histidine which can be specifically PEGylated on the N terminal amine using an o pyridylthioester PEG reagent Nektar . The reagent initially reacts with the amino acid side chain followed by a chemical rearrangement that results in an amide linkage between the PEG and the amino group of the N terminal amino acid.

While a majority of the PEGylated proteins currently on the market have one or more PEGs per protein it is also possible to construct protein conjugates with two or more proteins attached to one PEG moiety. Difunctional and heterofunctional PEGs are commercially available and can be used to covalently link two or more IFN variants.

One embodiment of the present invention relates to PEGylated bioactive peptides and particularly PEGylated cysteine variants of bioactive peptides and to any homologues thereof or truncated forms thereof. In one aspect the bioactive peptide is a peptide wherein the native protein contains no essential disulfides and wherein the peptide contains or has been modified to contain at least one free cysteine. In one embodiment such a bioactive peptide is produced by a method of the invention. In another aspect the invention relates to bioactive peptides that are PEGylated variants of a peptide selected from the group consisting of glucagon glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GLP 2 Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP PYY exendin ghrelin gastrin amylin and oxyntomoldulin.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a composition comprising any one or more of the above described polymer conjugated or non conjugated variants of the bioactive peptides including cysteine variants homologues thereof or truncated forms thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a cysteine variant of any of glucagon glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GLP 2 Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP PYY exendin ghrelin gastrin amylin and oxyntomoldulin such as those described in detail in the Examples or a homologue or truncated form thereof wherein a cysteine residue is substituted for at least one amino acid in the peptide. Preferred sites for cysteine substitution are described in Examples 11 19.

In one aspect of this embodiment the substituted or inserted cysteine residue is modified with a cysteine reactive moiety. In another aspect the substituted or inserted cysteine residue is modified with polyethylene glycol.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a composition comprising any one or more at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 of the above described variants and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Many bioactive peptides have been described including glucagon glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 GLP 2 Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP PYY exendin ghrelin gastrin amylin and oxyntomoldulin. These peptides typically are 10 40 amino acids in length and most do not contain cysteine residues. Methods to develop longer acting forms of these peptides are desired. In the following Examples we provide novel analogs of these peptides that may be used to create longer acting versions of the peptides. The longer acting peptides are useful because they can be administered at lower doses and less frequently than the unmodified peptides. Preferred analogs are ones in which a cysteine residue has been introduced into the peptide sequence either by substitution for a native amino acid or by insertion preceding the first amino acid or following the last amino acid of the peptide. Cysteine residues also can be inserted between two adjacent amino acids in the peptide chain. The added cysteine residue can be modified with a cysteine reactive moiety such as a cysteine reactive polymer. Useful cysteine reactive polymers include but are not limited to cysteine reactive polyethylene glycols PEGs dextrans sugars and starches. PEGs can be linear or branched PEGs. Other useful cysteine reactive moieties for modifying the peptides include but are not limited to cysteine reactive lipids labels dyes lipids chromophores and radionucleotides. Preferred reactive groups on the cysteine reactive moieties include maleimide vinylsulfone and iodoacetamide groups. The methods described herein are particularly useful for modifying peptides that do not contain a native cysteine residue s with a cysteine reactive moiety such as a cysteine reactive PEG. These methods also can be used to modify peptides that do contain one or more native cysteine residues. These methods also are useful for creating longer acting antagonist analogs of peptides.

Alternatively the peptides can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive polymers labels dyes lipids chromophores and radionucleotides. Useful amine reactive polymers include but are not limited to amine reactive PEGs dextrans sugars and starches. Typically amine reactive moieties attach to lysine residues or the N terminal amino acid. Labeling of the peptides can be made more specific for lysine residues or the N terminus by substituting non lysine amino acids preferably arginine for one or more lysine residues in the protein. Additionally new lysine residues can be engineered into the peptides to create new sites for modification of the peptides. New lysine residues can be added to the protein by substitution for a non lysine residue or by insertion preceding the first amino acid of the peptide or following the last amino acid of the peptide. Lysine residues also can be inserted between two adjacent amino acids in the peptide chain. These methods also are useful for creating longer acting agonist and antagonist analogs of peptides.

Methods for modifying a protein with a variety of polymers including at cysteine and lysine residues have been described above and are encompassed by this embodiment of the invention.

As used herein the term analog comprises a variety of modifications that can be made to a protein. Such changes may include amino acid variants deletions additions insertions fusion proteins and covalent and non covalent modifications.

Also encompassed by the invention is to the use of any variant of a bioactive peptide described herein including any polymer variant conjugate e.g. a PEGylated bioactive peptide including a monoPEGylated bioactive peptide in a therapeutic method or in the preparation of a medicament such as for the treatment of a disease or condition in which the use of the native bioactive peptide would be useful. Such diseases and conditions are described for multiple bioactive peptide variants of the invention in the Examples.

One embodiment of the present invention relates to PEGylated IFN variants and particularly a PEGylated IFN cysteine variant and to any homologues thereof or truncated forms thereof. In one aspect of this embodiment the IFN variant is a variant of a native IFN protein comprising an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 or SEQ ID NO 2 with SEQ ID NO 1 being preferred.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a composition comprising any one or more of the above described PEGylated IFN variants homologues thereof or truncated forms thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention relates to a cysteine variant of IFN SEQ ID NO 1 or a homologue or truncated form thereof wherein a cysteine residue is substituted for at least one amino acid located in at least one region of IFN .

In one aspect of this embodiment the substituted or inserted cysteine residue is modified with a cysteine reactive moiety. In another aspect the substituted or inserted cysteine residue is modified with polyethylene glycol.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a composition comprising any one or more at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 of the above described variants and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Native IFN is a homodimeric N glycosylated protein with 143 amino acids no cysteine residues i.e. no natural disulfides and an isoelectric point of about 8.7. The amino acid sequence of the mature human IFN protein is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 1 and the amino acid sequence of the mature murine IFN protein is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 2. Amino acid variants and truncated forms of IFN have been described Van Dan Haze et al. 2005 . When expressed in the protein may contain an N terminal methionine not found in the native protein.

IFN is enriched in basic amino acids with 40 lysines and 16 arginines per dimer. There are two potential glycosylation sites at N25 and N97. The absence of carbohydrate moieties in derived recombinant IFN does not affect its biological activity but it does have an effect on both its physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties Arakawa et al. 1985 . Unlike the other IFN family members IFN is extremely acid sensitive. Between pH 3.5 and 4.5 the protein loses structural integrity and rapidly aggregates. At pH 2.3 an acid labile bond is broken with subsequent loss of all anti viral activity Mulkerrin and Wetzel 1989 . IFN is also heat sensitive and undergoes irreversible thermal denaturation and aggregation in solution at temperatures greater than 40 C. Beldarrain et al. 1999 .

The X ray crystal structure of recombinant human IFN has been determined for both the protein itself Ealick et al. 1991252 698 702 and in complex with the IFN receptor alpha subunit IFN R Walter et al. 1995 . IFN is primarily alpha helical 62 with no beta sheets. IFN contains six alpha helical regions helices A F that are joined by short unstructured sequences or loops. Ealick et al. supra identifies the helical and non helical regions of human gamma interferon FIG. 3 of Ealick et al. wherein the positions of the helical regions and the intervening loop regions as well as the region preceding Helix A and following Helix E are located at the following positions in the human gamma interferon amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 1 amino acids 4 15 helix A amino acids 28 36 helix B amino acids 41 62 helix C amino acids 68 82 helix D amino acids 87 98 helix E and amino acids 104 121 helix F . The region preceding helix A accordingly encompasses amino acids 1 3 the A B loop encompasses amino acids 16 27 the B C loop encompasses amino acids 37 40 the C D loop encompasses amino acids 63 67 the D E loop encompasses amino acids 83 86 the E F loop encompasses amino acids 99 103 and the region following helix F encompasses amino acids 122 143.

IFN exists as a dimer in solution that is stabilized by the intertwining of the helices across the subunit interface with multiple intersubunit interactions. The first four helices A D from one subunit form a cleft that accommodates helix F of the other subunit. There are numerous hydrophobic contacts among all of the helices but most are between the C and D helices. The C helix is the most hydrophobic helix and is essentially buried in the core of the dimer. Overall the IFN dimer has a V like conformation with the amino and carboxyl regions of each monomer being juxtaposed to one another.

In general a cysteine substitution can be made for any amino acid that is 1 located on the surface of IFN 2 not required for the structural integrity of IFN and 3 not required for receptor binding. Non essential amino acids can be identified by performing cysteine scanning mutagenesis on the target protein and measuring effects on biological activity. Cysteine scanning mutagenesis entails adding or substituting cysteine residues for individual amino acids in the polypeptide chain and determining the effect of the cysteine substitution on biological activity. Cysteine scanning mutagenesis is similar to alanine scanning mutagenesis Cunningham et al. 1991 except that target amino acids are individually replaced with cysteine rather than alanine residues.

Glycosylation sites and glycosylation recognition sequences are attractive sites for attaching PEG molecules because these sites are surface exposed and the natural protein can tolerate bulky sugar groups at these positions. The human IFN sequence contains two potential N linked glycosylation sites at asparagine 25 and asparagine 97. Asparagine 25 is located at the C terminal end of the A B loop. Aspargine 97 is located at the C terminal end of Helix E. Tang et al. 1996 described the PEGylation of an IFN variant in which asparagine 97 was mutated to a cysteine residue. The N and C termini regions of IFN are also possible sites for site directed PEGylation including adding a cysteine that precedes the first amino acid or follows the last amino acid of IFN . Cysteine insertions between two adjacent amino acids within the primary amino acid sequence of IFN are also reasonable sites for thiol specific PEGylation if the biological activity or protein s conformation is not significantly affected by the cysteine insertions. Preferred sites for cysteine substitutions include the region preceding helix A Q1 D2 P3 the A B loop region N16 A17 G18 H19 S20 D21 V22 A23 D24 N25 G26 the B C loop region K37 E38 E39 S40 the C D loop region D63 Q64 S65 I66 Q67 the D E loop region N83 S84 N85 K86 the E F loop region N97 Y98 S99 V100 T101 D102 L103 and the region following Helix F P122 A123 A124 K125 T126 G127 K128 R129 K130 R131 5132 Q133 M134 L135 F136 R137 G138 R139 R140 A141 5143 Q143 . Cysteine residues also can be added preceding the protein s first amino acid or following the last amino acid. These IFN cysteine variants can be incorporated into the native IFN sequence or in variants in which Q1 D2 or Q1 and D2 are deleted or changed to non glutamic or non aspartic acids respectively. Possible substitutions include amino acids such as alanine arginine aspartic acid for Q1 only asparagine glutamic acid glutamine for D2 only glycine histidine isoleucine leucine lysine methionine phenylalanine proline serine threonine tryptophan tyrosine or valine .

Another embodiment of the invention relates to the use of any IFN variant described herein including any polymer IFN variant conjugate e.g. a PEGylated including a monoPEGylated IFN in a therapeutic method or in the preparation of a medicament such as for the treatment of a disease or condition in which the use of native IFN would be useful.

A long acting form of IFN would be useful for the treatment of a number of immunological viral and neoplastic diseases including diseases currently treated with IFN . Recombinant IFN is currently approved by the FDA for reducing the frequency and severity of serious infections associated with chronic granulomatous disease CGD and for delaying time to disease progression in patients with severe malignant osteopetrosis. CGD is a group of rare inherited disorders of the immune system that are caused by defects in the phagocytes. These defects leave patients vulnerable to severe reoccurring bacterial and fungal infections along with chronic inflammatory conditions. Malignant osteopetrosis is an inherited disorder characterized by an osteoclast defect leading to bone overgrowth and deficient phagocyte oxidative metabolism. This life threatening disorder leads to blindness deafness by six months of age and an increase in susceptibility to infection. Treatment with IFN has proven to be effective in delaying disease progression from a median time of 65 days after birth for the control group to 165 days for the treatment group Key et al. 1995 .

A long acting form of IFN is useful for treating Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis IPF which is a disorder that is characterized by progressive scarring or fibrosis of the lungs which ultimately leads to death. Another potential indication for a long acting form of IFN is cancer and in particular ovarian cancer where current treatment with chemotherapy alone has a five year survival rate of only 44 . In in vitro and in vivo studies IFN has been shown to be directly toxic to cancer cells including ovarian cancer cells neuroblastoma cancer cells and Ewings Sarcoma cancer cells and to stimulate the body s immune system to enhance the removal of cancer cells see review by Wall et al. 2003 . In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that IFN gamma may be useful as an anti cancer agent alone and in combination with proteins that cause cell death such as TRAIL and TRAIL receptor ligand agonists Yang et al. 2003 Merchant et al. 2004 . IFN gamma induces expression of cell death proteases such as caspase 8 in many tumor cells and may be useful in combination with other anti cancer compounds that require or use the caspase 8 cell death pathway to kill tumor cells. IFN gamma also may be useful as an anti cancer agent in combination with chemotherapeutic agents that induce TRAIL receptor either Trail Receptor 1 TR1 or Trail Receptor 2 TR2 or both expression on tumor cells. IFN gamma can inhibit proliferation and survival of cancer cells directly or by inhibiting their metastasis to other tissues and organs. A long acting form of IFN may be useful for treating liver fibrosis asthma and lymphomas and IFN also may prove to be an effective treatment against biological warfare agents. Preclinical data has confirmed IFN s ability to protect against both small pox and tularaemia in animal models Liu 2003 Anthony et al. 1989 . A long acting form of IFN may be useful in the treatment of small pox anthrax plague botulism tularaemia and hemorrhagic fevers.

A long acting form of IFN can also be used alone or synergistically in combination with other anti fungal anti viral anti bacterial or anti tumor agents. For example IFN and IFN while functionally related bind to different cell surface receptors See review by Lau et al. 2002 . In in vitro cells based assays and in vivo animal studies combinations of IFN and show enhanced anti viral and anti tumor activities than either drug alone Larkin et al. 2003 Fleischmann et al. 1998 Yanai et al. 2001 . Anti fungal agents have been evaluated in conjunction with IFN and shown to be effective in previously unresponsive patients Summers et al. 2005 .

A long acting form of IFN or composition comprising the same of the present invention is administered to an animal in a manner effective to deliver the composition to a target cell a target tissue or systemically to the animal whereby provision of a therapeutic benefit is achieved as a result of the administration of the IFN or composition. Suitable administration protocols include any in vivo or ex vivo administration protocol. According to the present invention suitable methods of administering a composition of the present invention to a patient include any route of in vivo administration that is suitable for delivering the composition into a patient. The preferred routes of administration will be apparent to those of skill in the art depending on the type of condition to be prevented or treated and or the target cell population.

Any of the proteins or peptides described herein or produced by the methods of the invention including long acting e.g. PEGylated forms of the proteins or peptides can be used in various compositions and therapeutic methods. Generally the proteins and peptides of the invention can be used in any method including any therapeutic method that is useful with the native unmodified wild type protein or peptide.

Cysteine muteins and PEGylated proteins and peptides of the present invention are preferably administered in a composition. Compositions can include a cysteine mutein cysteine variant of the invention and any other suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as well as in some aspects additional components that may be useful in the treatment of a give disease or condition. According to the present invention a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and or pharmaceutically acceptable delivery vehicles which are suitable for use in administration of the composition to a suitable in vitro ex vivo or in vivo site. A suitable in vitro in vivo or ex vivo site is preferably any site where the cysteine mutein will provide a detectable effect as compared to in the absence of the mutein and includes a disease site or a site of cell types to be contacted with the mutein. Preferred pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are capable of maintaining the mutein of the present invention in a form that upon arrival of the mutein at the cell target in a culture or in patient the mutein is capable of interacting with its target e.g. platelets or progenitor cells thereof .

Suitable excipients of the present invention include excipients or formularies that transport or help transport but do not specifically target a composition to a cell or area also referred to herein as non targeting carriers . Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include but are not limited to water phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution dextrose solution serum containing solutions Hank s solution other aqueous physiologically balanced solutions oils esters and glycols. Aqueous carriers can contain suitable auxiliary substances required to approximate the physiological conditions of the recipient for example by enhancing chemical stability and isotonicity. Compositions of the present invention can be sterilized by conventional methods and or lyophilized.

One type of pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes a controlled release formulation that is capable of slowly releasing a composition of the present invention into a patient or culture. As used herein a controlled release formulation comprises a cysteine mutein of the present invention in a controlled release vehicle. Suitable controlled release vehicles include but are not limited to biocompatible polymers other polymeric matrices capsules microcapsules microparticles bolus preparations osmotic pumps diffusion devices liposomes lipospheres and transdermal delivery systems. Other carriers of the present invention include liquids that upon administration to a patient form a solid or a gel in situ. Preferred carriers are also biodegradable i.e. bioerodible . In the event that a cysteine mutein of the invention is administered as a recombinant nucleic acid molecule encoding the cysteine mutein e.g. gene therapy or genetic immunization suitable carriers include but are not limited to liposomes viral vectors or other carriers including ribozymes gold particles poly L lysine DNA molecular conjugates and artificial chromosomes. Natural lipid containing carriers include cells and cellular membranes. Artificial lipid containing carriers include liposomes and micelles.

A carrier of the present invention can be modified to target to a particular site in a patient thereby targeting and making use of a compound of the present invention at that site. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier which is capable of targeting can also be referred to herein as a delivery vehicle or targeting carrier . Suitable modifications include manipulating the chemical formula of the lipid portion of the delivery vehicle and or introducing into the vehicle a targeting agent capable of specifically targeting a delivery vehicle to a preferred site or target site for example a preferred cell type. A target site refers to a site in a patient to which one desires to deliver a composition. Suitable targeting compounds include ligands capable of selectively i.e. specifically binding another molecule at a particular site. Examples of such ligands include antibodies antigens receptors and receptor ligands. Manipulating the chemical formula of the lipid portion of the delivery vehicle can modulate the extracellular or intracellular targeting of the delivery vehicle. For example a chemical can be added to the lipid formula of a liposome that alters the charge of the lipid bilayer of the liposome so that the liposome fuses with particular cells having particular charge characteristics.

One delivery vehicle of the present invention is a liposome. A liposome is capable of remaining stable in an animal for a sufficient amount of time to deliver a nucleic acid molecule or protein described in the present invention to a preferred site in the animal. A liposome according to the present invention comprises a lipid composition that is capable of delivering a nucleic acid molecule or protein to a particular or selected site in a patient. A liposome according to the present invention comprises a lipid composition that is capable of fusing with the plasma membrane of the targeted cell to deliver a nucleic acid molecule or protein into a cell. Suitable liposomes for use with the present invention include any liposome. Preferred liposomes of the present invention include those liposomes commonly used in for example gene delivery methods known to those of skill in the art. More preferred liposomes comprise liposomes having a polycationic lipid composition and or liposomes having a cholesterol backbone conjugated to polyethylene glycol. Complexing a liposome with a nucleic acid molecule or protein of the present invention can be achieved using methods standard in the art.

Another type of delivery vehicle when the cysteine mutein is administered as a nucleic acid encoding the mutein comprises a viral vector. A viral vector includes an isolated nucleic acid molecule in which the nucleic acid molecules are packaged in a viral coat that allows entrance of DNA into a cell. A number of viral vectors can be used including but not limited to those based on alphaviruses poxviruses adenoviruses herpesviruses lentiviruses adeno associated viruses and retroviruses.

According to the present invention an effective administration protocol i.e. administering a therapeutic composition in an effective manner comprises suitable dose parameters and modes of administration that result in the desired effect in the patient e.g. stimulation of platelet production preferably so that the patient is protected from the disease e.g. by disease prevention or by alleviating one or more symptoms of ongoing disease . Effective dose parameters can be determined using methods standard in the art for a particular disease. Such methods include for example determination of survival rates side effects i.e. toxicity and progression or regression of disease.

In accordance with the present invention a suitable single dose size is a dose that results in the desired therapeutic effect in the patient depending on the cysteine mutein that is administered or in the amelioration of at least one symptom of a condition in the patient when administered one or more times over a suitable time period. Doses can vary depending upon the disease being treated. One of skill in the art can readily determine appropriate single dose sizes for a given patient based on the size of a patient and the route of administration.

In one aspect of the invention a suitable single dose of a therapeutic composition of the present invention is an amount that when administered by any route of administration provides a therapeutic effect in the patient as described above as compared to a patient which has not been administered with the therapeutic composition of the present invention i.e. a control patient as compared to the patient prior to administration of the composition or as compared to a standard established for the particular disease patient type and composition.

In one aspect of the invention an appropriate single dose of a cysteine mutein of the present invention is at least about 0.01 micrograms per kg of the animal to which the mutein is administered and in other aspects at least about 0.1 micrograms kg at least about 0.2 micrograms kg at least about 0.5 micrograms kg at least about 1 micrograms kg at least about 5 micrograms kg at least about 10 micrograms kg at least about 25 micrograms kg at least about 50 micrograms kg at least about 75 micrograms kg at least about 100 micrograms kg at least about 200 micrograms kg at least about 300 micrograms kg at least about 400 micrograms kg at least about 500 micrograms kg at least about 750 micrograms kg at least about 1 mg kg or at least about 5 mg kg.

As discussed above a therapeutic composition of the present invention is administered to a patient in a manner effective to deliver the composition to a cell a tissue and or systemically to the patient whereby the desired result is achieved as a result of the administration of the composition. Suitable administration protocols include any in vivo or ex vivo administration protocol. The preferred routes of administration will be apparent to those of skill in the art depending on the type of condition to be prevented or treated whether the composition is nucleic acid based or protein based and or the target cell tissue. For proteins or nucleic acid molecules preferred methods of in vivo administration include but are not limited to intravenous administration intraperitoneal administration intramuscular administration intranodal administration intracoronary administration intraarterial administration e.g. into a carotid artery subcutaneous administration transdermal delivery intratracheal administration subcutaneous administration intraarticular administration intraventricular administration inhalation e.g. aerosol intracranial intraspinal intraocular intranasal oral bronchial rectal topical vaginal urethral pulmonary administration impregnation of a catheter and direct injection into a tissue. Routes useful for deliver to mucosal tissues include bronchial intradermal intramuscular intranasal other inhalatory rectal subcutaneous topical transdermal vaginal and urethral routes. Combinations of routes of delivery can be used and in some instances may enhance the therapeutic effects of the composition. Particularly preferred routes of delivery include subcutaneous and intravenous delivery.

Ex vivo administration refers to performing part of the regulatory step outside of the patient such as administering a composition of the present invention to a population of cells removed from a patient under conditions such that the composition contacts and or enters the cell and returning the cells to the patient. Ex vivo methods are particularly suitable when the target cell type can easily be removed from and returned to the patient.

Many of the above described routes of administration including intravenous intraperitoneal intradermal and intramuscular administrations can be performed using methods standard in the art. Aerosol inhalation delivery can also be performed using methods standard in the art see for example Stribling et al. 189 11277 11281 1992 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Oral delivery can be performed by complexing a therapeutic composition of the present invention to a carrier capable of withstanding degradation by digestive enzymes in the gut of an animal. Examples of such carriers include plastic capsules or tablets such as those known in the art.

One method of local administration is by direct injection. Direct injection techniques are particularly useful for administering a composition to a cell or tissue that is accessible by surgery and particularly on or near the surface of the body. Administration of a composition locally within the area of a target cell refers to injecting the composition centimeters and preferably millimeters from the target cell or tissue.

Various methods of administration and delivery vehicles disclosed herein have been shown to be effective for delivery of a nucleic acid molecule to a target cell whereby the nucleic acid molecule transfected the cell and was expressed. In many studies successful delivery and expression of a heterologous gene was achieved in preferred cell types and or using preferred delivery vehicles and routes of administration of the present invention.

In the method of the present invention compositions can be administered to any animal and preferably to any member of the Vertebrate class Mammalia including without limitation primates rodents livestock and domestic pets. Livestock include mammals to be consumed or that produce useful products e.g. sheep for wool production . Preferred mammals to protect include humans dogs cats mice rats sheep cattle horses and pigs with humans being particularly preferred.

As used herein reference to an isolated protein or polypeptide in the present invention including an IFN protein described particularly herein includes full length proteins fusion proteins or any fragment truncated form or homologue of such a protein. Such a protein can include but is not limited to purified proteins recombinantly produced proteins membrane bound proteins proteins complexed with lipids soluble proteins and isolated proteins associated with other proteins. More specifically an isolated protein according to the present invention is a protein including a polypeptide or peptide that has been removed from its natural milieu i.e. that has been subject to human manipulation and can include purified proteins partially purified proteins recombinantly produced proteins and synthetically produced proteins for example. As such isolated does not reflect the extent to which the protein has been purified. Preferably an isolated protein of the present invention is produced recombinantly. In addition and again by way of example a human IFN protein or a protein derived from a human IFN protein refers to a IFN protein generally including a homologue of a naturally occurring IFN protein from a human or to a IFN protein that has been otherwise produced from the knowledge of the structure e.g. sequence and perhaps the function of a naturally occurring IFN protein from . In other words a human IFN protein includes any IFN protein that has substantially similar structure and function of a naturally occurring IFN protein from or that is a biologically active i.e. has biological activity homologue of a naturally occurring IFN protein from as described in detail herein. As such a human IFN protein can include purified partially purified recombinant mutated modified and synthetic proteins. According to the present invention the terms modification and mutation can be used interchangeably particularly with regard to the modifications mutations to the amino acid sequence of protein or nucleic acid sequences described herein. An isolated protein useful as an antagonist or agonist according to the present invention can be isolated from its natural source produced recombinantly or produced synthetically.

As used herein the term homologue is used to refer to a protein or peptide which differs from a naturally occurring protein or peptide i.e. the prototype or wild type protein by modifications including minor modifications to the naturally occurring protein or peptide but which maintains the basic protein and side chain structure of the naturally occurring form. Such changes include but are not limited to changes in one or a few i.e. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 amino acid side chains changes one or a few amino acids including deletions e.g. a truncated form of the protein or peptide insertions and or substitutions changes in stereochemistry of one or a few atoms and or minor derivatizations including but not limited to methylation glycosylation phosphorylation acetylation myristoylation prenylation palmitation amidation and or addition of glycosylphosphatidyl inositol. A homologue can have either enhanced decreased or substantially similar properties as compared to the naturally occurring protein or peptide. A homologue can include an agonist of a protein or an antagonist of a protein. A cysteine variant of IFN is a homologue of IFN by way of example.

Homologues can be the result of natural allelic variation or natural mutation. A naturally occurring allelic variant of a nucleic acid encoding a protein is a gene that occurs at essentially the same locus or loci in the genome as the gene which encodes such protein but which due to natural variations caused by for example mutation or recombination has a similar but not identical sequence. Allelic variants typically encode proteins having similar activity to that of the protein encoded by the gene to which they are being compared. One class of allelic variants can encode the same protein but have different nucleic acid sequences due to the degeneracy of the genetic code. Allelic variants can also comprise alterations in the 5 or 3 untranslated regions of the gene e.g. in regulatory control regions . Allelic variants are well known to those skilled in the art.

Homologues can be produced using techniques known in the art for the production of proteins including but not limited to direct modifications to the isolated naturally occurring protein direct protein synthesis or modifications to the nucleic acid sequence encoding the protein using for example classic or recombinant DNA techniques to effect random or targeted mutagenesis.

In one embodiment a homologue of a given protein comprises consists essentially of or consists of an amino acid sequence that is at least about 45 or at least about 50 or at least about 55 or at least about 60 or at least about 65 or at least about 70 or at least about 75 or at least about 80 or at least about 85 or at least about 90 or at least about 95 identical or at least about 95 identical or at least about 96 identical or at least about 97 identical or at least about 98 identical or at least about 99 identical or any percent identity between 45 and 99 in whole integer increments to the amino acid sequence of the reference protein. In one embodiment the homologue comprises consists essentially of or consists of an amino acid sequence that is less than 100 identical less than about 99 identical less than about 98 identical less than about 97 identical less than about 96 identical less than about 95 identical and so on in increments of 1 to less than about 70 identical to the naturally occurring amino acid sequence of the reference protein.

As used herein unless otherwise specified reference to a percent identity refers to an evaluation of homology which is performed using 1 a BLAST 2.0 Basic BLAST homology search using blastp for amino acid searches and blastn for nucleic acid searches with standard default parameters wherein the query sequence is filtered for low complexity regions by default described in Altschul S. F. Madden T. L. Sch ffer A. A. Zhang J. Zhang Z. Miller W. Lipman D. J. 1997 Gapped BLAST and PSI BLAST a new generation of protein database search programs. Nucleic Acids Res. 25 3389 3402 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety 2 a BLAST 2 alignment using the parameters described below 3 and or PSI BLAST with the standard default parameters Position Specific Iterated BLAST. It is noted that due to some differences in the standard parameters between BLAST 2.0 Basic BLAST and BLAST 2 two specific sequences might be recognized as having significant homology using the BLAST 2 program whereas a search performed in BLAST 2.0 Basic BLAST using one of the sequences as the query sequence may not identify the second sequence in the top matches. In addition PSI BLAST provides an automated easy to use version of a profile search which is a sensitive way to look for sequence homologues. The program first performs a gapped BLAST database search. The PSI BLAST program uses the information from any significant alignments returned to construct a position specific score matrix which replaces the query sequence for the next round of database searching. Therefore it is to be understood that percent identity can be determined by using any one of these programs.

Two specific sequences can be aligned to one another using BLAST 2 sequence as described in Tatusova and Madden 1999 Blast 2 sequences a new tool for comparing protein and nucleotide sequences 174 247 250 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. BLAST 2 sequence alignment is performed in blastp or blastn using the BLAST 2.0 algorithm to perform a Gapped BLAST search BLAST 2.0 between the two sequences allowing for the introduction of gaps deletions and insertions in the resulting alignment. For purposes of clarity herein a BLAST 2 sequence alignment is performed using the standard default parameters as follows.

According to the present invention an isolated IFN protein including a biologically active homologue or fragment thereof has at least one characteristic of biological activity of activity the wild type or naturally occurring IFN protein which can vary depending on whether the homologue or fragment is an agonist or antagonist of the protein or whether an agonist or antagonist mimetic of the protein is described . In general the biological activity or biological action of a protein refers to any function s exhibited or performed by the protein that is ascribed to the naturally occurring form of the protein as measured or observed in vivo i.e. in the natural physiological environment of the protein or in vitro i.e. under laboratory conditions . Modifications activities or interactions which result in a decrease in protein expression or a decrease in the activity of the protein can be referred to as inactivation complete or partial down regulation reduced action or decreased action or activity of a protein. Similarly modifications activities or interactions which result in an increase in protein expression or an increase in the activity of the protein can be referred to as amplification overproduction activation enhancement up regulation or increased action of a protein. The biological activity of an IFN protein according to the invention can be measured or evaluated using any assay for the biological activity of the protein as known in the art. Such assays are known in the art and assays for IFN activity are described in the Examples.

In accordance with the present invention an isolated polynucleotide also referred to as an isolated nucleic acid molecule is a nucleic acid molecule that has been removed from its natural milieu e.g. that has been subject to human manipulation its natural milieu being the genome or chromosome in which the nucleic acid molecule is found in nature. As such isolated does not necessarily reflect the extent to which the nucleic acid molecule has been purified but indicates that the molecule does not include an entire genome or an entire chromosome in which the nucleic acid molecule is found in nature. A polynucleotide useful in the present invention can include a portion of a nucleic acid sequence sense or non sense strand that is suitable for use as a hybridization probe or PCR primer for the identification of a full length gene or portion thereof or to encode a protein or fragment truncated form or homologue thereof. An isolated nucleic acid molecule that includes a gene is not a fragment of a chromosome that includes such gene but rather includes the coding region and regulatory regions associated with the gene but no additional genes naturally found on the same chromosome. An isolated nucleic acid molecule can also include a specified nucleic acid sequence flanked by i.e. at the 5 and or the 3 end of the sequence additional nucleic acids that do not normally flank the specified nucleic acid sequence in nature i.e. heterologous sequences . Isolated nucleic acid molecule can include DNA RNA e.g. mRNA or derivatives of either DNA or RNA e.g. cDNA . Although the phrase nucleic acid molecule primarily refers to the physical nucleic acid molecule and the phrase nucleic acid sequence primarily refers to the sequence of nucleotides on the nucleic acid molecule the two phrases can be used interchangeably especially with respect to a nucleic acid molecule or a nucleic acid sequence being capable of encoding a protein. Preferably an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the present invention is produced using recombinant DNA technology e.g. polymerase chain reaction PCR amplification cloning or chemical synthesis.

The minimum size of a nucleic acid molecule or polynucleotide of the present invention is a size sufficient to encode a protein having a desired biological activity or sufficient to form a probe or oligonucleotide primer that is capable of forming a stable hybrid with the complementary sequence of a nucleic acid molecule encoding the natural protein e.g. under moderate high or very high stringency conditions . If the polynucleotide is an oligonucleotide probe or primer the size of the polynucleotide can be dependent on nucleic acid composition and percent homology or identity between the nucleic acid molecule and a complementary sequence as well as upon hybridization conditions per se e.g. temperature salt concentration and formamide concentration . The minimum size of a polynucleotide that is used as an oligonucleotide probe or primer is at least about 5 nucleotides in length and preferably ranges from about 5 to about 50 or about 500 nucleotides or greater including any length in between in whole number increments i.e. 5 6 7 8 9 10 . . . 33 34 . . . 256 257 . . . 500 . There is no limit other than a practical limit on the maximal size of a nucleic acid molecule of the present invention in that the nucleic acid molecule can include a portion of a protein encoding sequence or a nucleic acid sequence encoding a full length protein.

As used herein stringent hybridization conditions refer to standard hybridization conditions under which nucleic acid molecules are used to identify similar nucleic acid molecules. Such standard conditions are disclosed for example in Sambrook et al. Cold Spring Harbor Labs Press 1989. Sambrook et al. ibid. is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety see specifically pages 9.31 9.62 . In addition formulae to calculate the appropriate hybridization and wash conditions to achieve hybridization permitting varying degrees of mismatch of nucleotides are disclosed for example in Meinkoth et al. 1984138 267 284 Meinkoth et al. ibid. is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

More particularly moderate stringency hybridization and washing conditions as referred to herein refer to conditions which permit isolation of nucleic acid molecules having at least about 70 nucleic acid sequence identity with the nucleic acid molecule being used to probe in the hybridization reaction i.e. conditions permitting about 30 or less mismatch of nucleotides . High stringency hybridization and washing conditions as referred to herein refer to conditions which permit isolation of nucleic acid molecules having at least about 80 nucleic acid sequence identity with the nucleic acid molecule being used to probe in the hybridization reaction i.e. conditions permitting about 20 or less mismatch of nucleotides . Very high stringency hybridization and washing conditions as referred to herein refer to conditions which permit isolation of nucleic acid molecules having at least about 90 nucleic acid sequence identity with the nucleic acid molecule being used to probe in the hybridization reaction i.e. conditions permitting about 10 or less mismatch of nucleotides . As discussed above one of skill in the art can use the formulae in Meinkoth et al. ibid. to calculate the appropriate hybridization and wash conditions to achieve these particular levels of nucleotide mismatch. Such conditions will vary depending on whether DNA RNA or DNA DNA hybrids are being formed. Calculated melting temperatures for DNA DNA hybrids are 10 C. less than for DNA RNA hybrids. In particular embodiments stringent hybridization conditions for DNA DNA hybrids include hybridization at an ionic strength of 6 SSC 0.9 M Na at a temperature of between about 20 C. and about 35 C. lower stringency more preferably between about 28 C. and about 40 C. more stringent and even more preferably between about 35 C. and about 45 C. even more stringent with appropriate wash conditions. In particular embodiments stringent hybridization conditions for DNA RNA hybrids include hybridization at an ionic strength of 6 SSC 0.9 M Na at a temperature of between about 30 C. and about 45 C. more preferably between about 38 C. and about 50 C. and even more preferably between about 45 C. and about 55 C. with similarly stringent wash conditions. These values are based on calculations of a melting temperature for molecules larger than about 100 nucleotides 0 formamide and a G C content of about 40 . Alternatively Tcan be calculated empirically as set forth in Sambrook et al. supra pages 9.31 to 9.62. In general the wash conditions should be as stringent as possible and should be appropriate for the chosen hybridization conditions. For example hybridization conditions can include a combination of salt and temperature conditions that are approximately 20 25 C. below the calculated Tof a particular hybrid and wash conditions typically include a combination of salt and temperature conditions that are approximately 12 20 C. below the calculated Tof the particular hybrid. One example of hybridization conditions suitable for use with DNA DNA hybrids includes a 2 24 hour hybridization in 6 SSC 50 formamide at about 42 C. followed by washing steps that include one or more washes at room temperature in about 2 SSC followed by additional washes at higher temperatures and lower ionic strength e.g. at least one wash as about 37 C. in about 0.1 0.5 SSC followed by at least one wash at about 68 C. in about 0.1 0.5 SSC .

In one embodiment of the present invention any of the amino acid sequences described herein including homologues of such sequences e.g. cysteine muteins can be produced with from at least one and up to about 20 additional heterologous amino acids flanking each of the C and or N terminal end of the given amino acid sequence. The resulting protein or polypeptide can be referred to as consisting essentially of a given amino acid sequence. According to the present invention the heterologous amino acids are a sequence of amino acids that are not naturally found i.e. not found in nature in vivo flanking the given amino acid sequence or which would not be encoded by the nucleotides that flank the naturally occurring nucleic acid sequence encoding the given amino acid sequence as it occurs in the gene if such nucleotides in the naturally occurring sequence were translated using standard codon usage for the organism from which the given amino acid sequence is derived. Similarly the phrase consisting essentially of when used with reference to a nucleic acid sequence herein refers to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a given amino acid sequence that can be flanked by from at least one and up to as many as about 60 additional heterologous nucleotides at each of the 5 and or the 3 end of the nucleic acid sequence encoding the given amino acid sequence. The heterologous nucleotides are not naturally found i.e. not found in nature in vivo flanking the nucleic acid sequence encoding the given amino acid sequence as it occurs in the natural gene.

The following examples are provided for the purpose of illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

A cDNA encoding human IFN was amplified by RT PCR from total RNA isolated from the human Jurkat T cell line American Type Culture Collection Rockville Md. . The cells were grown in RPMI media supplemented with 10 FBS 50 units ml penicillin and 50 g ml streptomycin. The cells were activated in vitro for 6 hours with 1 g ml PHA L and 50 ng ml PMA phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate to induce IFN expression prior to RNA isolation Weiss et al. 1984 Wiskocil et al. 1985 . RNA was isolated from the cells using an RNeasy Mini RNA isolation kit purchased from Qiagen Inc. First strand synthesis of single stranded cDNA was accomplished using a 1st Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit for RT PCR AMV from Boehringer Mannheim Corp. Indianapolis Ind. and random hexamers were used as the primer. Subsequent PCR reactions using the products of the first strand synthesis as template were carried out with forward primer BB112 5 CGCAA GCTTG CCACC ATGAA ATATA CAAGT TATAT C 3 SEQ ID NO 3 and reverse primer BB113 5 CGCGG ATCCT CCGGA CTGGG ATGCT CTTCG ACCTT G 3 SEQ ID NO 4 . Primer BB112 anneals to the 5 end of the coding sequence for the IFN secretion signal and the reverse primer BB113 anneals to the 3 end of the IFN coding sequence. The resulting PCR product was digested with Hind III and Bam HI gel purified and cloned into pcDNA3.1 vector that had been digested with Hind III and Bam HI alkaline phosphatase treated and gel purified. A clone with the correct DNA sequence Gray et al. 1982 was designated pBBT192.

The gene for IFN in pBBT192 was next modified by PCR for expression in . Primers were synthesized that anneal to the 5 and 3 ends of the gene and incorporate sequences for translational initiation and termination. The modification of the gene was performed in two steps. Forward primer BB1049 5 CAG GAC CCA TAC GTA AAA GAA GCA GAA AAC CTT AAG SEQ ID NO 5 and reverse primer BB1050 5 CCG GAATTC TTA CTG GGA TGC ACG TCG ACC TTG AAA CAG SEQ ID NO 6 were used to incorporate a TAA termination codon and EcoRI recognition site GAATTC at the 3 end of the gene. The product of this PCR was then amplified using forward primer BB1048 5 CGC GGA TCC ATC TTG GAG GAT GAT TAA ATG CAG GAC CCA TAC GTA AAA G SEQ ID NO 7 and reverse primer BB1050 to incorporate an ATG initiation codon and a BamHI recognition site GGATCC for cloning into pET21a a T7 promoter expression vector Novagen . The product of this second PCR was gel purified digested with BamHI and EcoRI repurified and cloned into pUC19 that had been digested with BamHI and EcoRI alkaline phosphatase AP treated and purified using a Qiagen PCR purification kit. A plasmid with the expected sequence was named pBBT939. For expression experiments this plasmid was introduced into strain BL21 DE3 Invitrogen .

Mutagenesis of IFN was performed by PCR using methods described by Scharf 1999 or by Higuchi 1999 . For targeted residues whose codons were close to the unique BsaI restriction site in pBBT939 at residues E71 and T72 the inventors employed the method of Scharf in which one mutagenic oligonucleotide and one PCR reaction was required. For other targeted residues Higuchi s method using two mutagenic oligonucleotides was employed. Higuchi s method requires three PCRs two reactions that produce a left fragment and a right fragment and a final splicing reaction in which the left and right fragments are mixed and amplified with the two outside primers containing the restriction sites.

Similar methods were used to construct IFN gamma muteins N25C K37C Q67C and N83C as well as an IFN gamma mutein in which Q1 is deleted. Similar methods can be used to construct IFN gamma cysteine muteins Q1C D2C and P3C. Similar methods also can be used to construct cysteine muteins in which a cysteine residue is inserted preceding the first amino acid of the mature protein Q1 or following the last amino acid of the protein Q143. Cysteine analogs of IFN gamma are contemplated in the context of the wild type gamma interferon sequence or in the context of the sequences of other gamma interferon analogs such as those containing other amino acid substitutions deletions or additions. One preferred set of gamma interferon analogs are those in which Q1 D2 P3 or a combination of these amino acids are deleted.

PCR products were digested with either Eco RI and Bam HI BamHI and BsaI or EcoRI and BsaI and cloned into similarly digested and AP treated pBBT939. The newly cloned fragment was sequenced to confirm that the desired cysteine substitution mutation was in place and that no unexpected mutations were present.

BamHI EcoRI fragments encoding wild type IFN or IFN cysteine muteins were isolated after sequencing and ligated into BamHI EcoRI AP digested and purified pET21a Novagen . The ligation reaction was transformed into the strain JM109 Promega . Plasmids from ampicillin resistant colonies were analyzed for the correct size of insert and transformed into BL21 DE3 Invitrogen . Expression of native IFN and IFN cysteine muteins results in the presence of an N terminal methionine upstream of glutamine 1 Q1 in the sequence.

IFN and the IFN cysteine muteins can also be expressed as intracellular or secreted proteins in eukaryotic cells such as yeast insect cells or mammalian cells. Vectors for expressing the proteins and methods for performing such experiments are described in catalogues from various commercial supply companies such as Invitrogen Inc. Stratagene Inc. and CloneTech Inc. Procedures for expression proteins in insect and mammalian cells are described in Cox et al. 2001.

The strains containing wild type IFN or IFN variants were grown overnight in Luria Broth LB media containing 100 g ml ampicillin and 1 glucose at 37 C. in roll tubes. Saturated overnight cultures were diluted to an OD at 600 nm of 0.025 in the same media and incubated at 37 C. in shake flasks. Typically a 400 ml culture was grown in a 2 L shake flask. When culture ODs reached 0.5 0.6 IPTG was added to a final concentration of 0.5 mM to induce expression of the IFN proteins. The cells were harvested by centrifugation 3 hours post induction and frozen at 20 C.

Cell pellets were thawed and treated with 10 ml of B PER bacterial protein extraction reagent according to the manufacturer s Pierce protocols. Other useful methods for lysing the cells include homogenization and use of high pressure. The insoluble or aggregated material which contains the bulk of the IFN protein was recovered by centrifugation and resuspended in 10 ml B PER . This mixture was next treated with lysozyme 200 g ml for 10 min to further disrupt the cell walls followed by MgCl 10 mM final concentration and protease free DNAse 2 g ml . Insoluble IFN protein was collected by centrifugation and washed by resuspension in water and recentrifugation.

A variety of conditions for refolding the insoluble protein were tested in an experimental matrix format with wild type IFN and the cysteine variants. Solubilization reagents tested included chaotropic agents such as urea and guanidine in the presence of a reducing agent dithiothreitol cysteine or TCEP Tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine HCl and 20 mM Tris base. For the renaturation step the solubilizations were diluted 20 fold with a buffered solution which contained one or more of the following additives glycerol 5 25 arginine 100 500 mM Tween 20 0.1 1 guanidine 0.1 1 M urea 0.1 3 M copper sulfate 40 molar and or EDTA 1 2 mM . The refolds were left at 4 C. and analyzed by C4 Reversed Phase RP HPLC.

The greatest yield of refolded soluble IFN resulted when the insoluble material recovered from the detergent cell break was dissolved in 6 M guanidine 10 mM TCEP in 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 where as wild type IFN could be refolded in the absence of a reducing agent while the cysteine muteins required the presence of a reducing agent. Other reducing agents such as cysteine dithiothreitol cysteamine reduced glutathionine or beta mercaptoethanol can be substituted for TCEP. This mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature centrifuged to clarity and gently diluted 28 fold into the renaturation solution consisting of 0.3 M guanidine 1 mM TCEP 1 mM EDTA and 20 mM Tris pH 8.0. This refold mixture was allowed to sit at 4 C. overnight without agitation.

Each refold 560 ml was clarified by centrifugation and diluted 2 with 20 mM Tris 1 mM TCEP pH 8.0 S Sepharose Buffer A . The mixture was next loaded onto a 10 ml S Sepharose column GE Biosciences equilibrated in Buffer A. The column was eluted with a linear salt gradient 20 column volumes from 25 75 Buffer B Buffer A 1 M NaCl . TCEP was used as the reducing agent in the column buffers because it does not interfere with the PEGylation reaction but does keep the protein from forming disulfide bonds. Alternatively other reducing agents cysteine dithiothreitol cysteamine reduced glutathione beta mercaptoethanol and related compounds can be included in the column buffers and then subsequently removed by dialysis or chromatography before adding the PEG reagent. If a reducing agent such as cysteine or cysteamine dithiothreitol reduced glutathione beta mercaptoethanol or a dithiol e.g. cystine oxidized glutathione cystamine that can form a mixed disulfide when reduced that is capable of forming a mixed disulfide with the free cysteines in IFN is used in the column buffers or refold and renaturation solutions an additional reduction step is required before PEGylation.

The S Sepharose fractions were assayed by SDS PAGE. It should be noted that when analyzed by SDS PAGE IFN runs as a monomer due to the disruption of the hydrophobic interactions that hold the IFN dimer together. Any disulfide bonded material is reduced due to the presence of TCEP in the S Sepharose buffers. Fractions with substantially pure IFN were pooled and frozen. Protein concentrations were measured using a Bradford protein assay. Between 20 30 mgs of purified IFN protein depending on the construct were typically recovered from a 400 ml shake flask culture.

A Reversed Phase C4 HPLC method was developed for the purpose of evaluating refold yields and the final purity of the recombinant IFN and the IFN variants. A 50 l aliquot of sample is applied to a C4 Vydac or similar C4 HPLC column previously equilibrated in 60 Buffer A water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid TFA 40 Buffer B acetonitrile 0.1 TFA . The column is eluted with a 15 minute linear gradient from 40 Buffer B to 45 Buffer B. Absorbance is monitored at 215 nm. A Beckman System Gold HPLC can be used for these experiments. IFN elutes at approximately 6 minutes.

The purified IFN proteins were also analyzed by Size Exclusion SEC HPLC to confirm that the proteins were dimeric. Samples of the proteins were applied to a Bio Sil SEC 400 BioRad HPLC column and eluted with an isocratic gradient of 1.2 M KCl pH 7.5. BioRad MW standards were used to calibrate the SEC HPLC column. The molecular weights for IFN muteins and wild type IFN were approximately 40 kDa as expected for the homodimer.

Wild type IFN can also be PEGylated using amine reactive PEG reagents. Because the water hydroxyl anion of the aqueous buffer competes with the primary amines an excess of active PEG is usually needed on the order of 2 fold to 100 fold depending on the protein s reactivity. The predominant site s of PEGylation can be controlled based on the pH of the buffer. Generally at pH values above 8.0 the epsilon NH3 groups react first whereas at approximated pH 5 7 alpha NH2 is the most reactive.

For N terminal PEGylation IFN is diluted into a buffer that has sufficient capacity to maintain the pH of the reaction between 5 7. Buffers containing primary amines such as Tris should be avoided. The protein s concentration can be on the order of 0.01 mg 50 mg mL. PEG is added on the order of 2 to 100 fold excess preferably 2 to 10 fold excess. The reaction is allow to sit overnight at 4 C. or until the reaction is considered complete. The PEGylated protein is separated from the non PEGylated protein and the PEG reagents by column chromatography using ion exchange hydrophobic interaction or size exclusion chromatography. Chromatography can also be used to separate the PEGylated isoforms of the proteins that vary by the location and or the number of PEGs attached. The proteins can be visualized by UV absorbance at 280 nm whereas the PEG molecules can be identified by iodine assay Sims et al. 1980 .

For non specific amine PEGylation the above reaction is run at a pH greater than 8. The number of attachments desired in the final product can be controlled by the amount of excess PEG reagent added and the time that the reaction is allowed to proceed.

PEGylated IFN can be prepared using a vinylsulfone or maleimide PEG reagents. Thiol specific PEG reagents ranging from 2 60 kDa and linear or branched are available from Nektar USA Nippon Oil and Fat Japan and Sunbio South Korea .

Each IFN cysteine mutein 0.5 mg was diluted in 100 mM Tris pH 8 to a final concentration of 100 g ml. Four aliquots of a 2.5 molar excess of 10 kDa maleimide PEG were added at 30 min intervals 0 30 min 1 hr and 1.5 hr . After two hours at room temperature the mixture was diluted with an equal volume of the 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 and loaded onto a 1 ml S Sepharose column equilibrated in 20 mM Tris pH 8.0 The PEGylated protein was eluted using a 20 60 gradient of buffer B 20 mM Tris 1 M NaCl pH 8.0 over 30 column volumes. The fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE. Fractions containing purified diPEG Cys IFN one PEG per monomer were pooled and analyzed by the Bradford assay to determine the protein concentration. DiPEG Cys IFN also is referred to as PEG Cys IFN .

The purified diPEGylated IFN proteins were also analyzed by SEC HPLC to confirm that the proteins had two PEGs attached and remained dimeric. PEGylation increases a protein s effective molecular weight more than would be expected based on the molecular weight of the PEG moiety due to the water of hydration associated with the PEG group. As mentioned previously a BioRad Bio Sil 400 was used for SEC analysis. The column was calibrated using BioRad Gel permeation molecular weight markers. Based on SEC the purified PEGylated IFN proteins had apparent molecular weights of 315 kDa as expected for IFN dimer with two 10 kDa PEGs attached. Similar experiments can be used to modify the proteins with different size PEGs e.g. 20 kDa 30 kDa and 40 kDa PEGs linear or branched .

The human ovarian cancer NIH OVCAR 3 cell line ATCC is sensitive to the growth inhibiting properties of IFNs and can be used to measure the bioactivities of IFN IFN and IFN Horoszewicz et al. 1979 Evinger and Pestka 1981 our unpublished results . This assay measures the uptake and bioreduction of the tetrazolium salt MTS 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 5 3 carboxymethoxyphenyl 2 4 sulphophenyl 2H tetrazolium and is proportional to cell number. In the presence of an electron coupler such as phenazine methosulfate MTS is converted to a formazan product that is soluble in tissue culture media and can be measured directly at 490 nm Mosmann 1983 . OVCAR cells are adherent cells and maintained in MEM supplemented with 10 FBS 50 units ml Pen Strep and 2 mM L glutamine. Cells are passaged every 4 days in 1 2 dilutions.

For the bioassay fifty l 5 10cells of the cell suspension were aliquoted per test well of a flat bottom 96 well tissue culture plate. Control wells contained media but no cells. Serial dilutions for the protein samples and standard IFN Endogen were prepared in assay media. Fifty l of the diluted protein samples were added to the test wells in triplicate and the plates were incubated at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COtissue culture incubator for 7 days. On the 7th day the media is removed and the wells washed with PBS. 100 l of phenol red free media is added back to the wells along with 20 l of an MTS PMS mixture CellTiter 96 Aqueous One Solution Promega . Alternatively the MTS PMS solution can be added directly to the test wells without washing. The plates are incubated again at 37 C. in the tissue culture incubator for 1 4 h. The plates are read at an absorbance of 490 nm using a microplate reader. Mean absorbance values for the triplicate control wells were subtracted from mean values obtained for the test wells. An IC the concentration at half maximal inhibition was calculated for each sample to compare bioactivities of the proteins. The IFN cysteine variants and PEGylated forms of IFN were assayed as described above. Ave ICvalues are shown in Table 2.

In vitro bioactivities of certain IFN gamma muteins N25C K37C Q67C N83C and a mutein in which Q1 is deleted were measured using the human ovarian cancer CAOV 3 cell line which is available from the American Type Culture collection Manassas Va. cat HTB 75 . The cells were maintained in DMEM media supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum penicillin streptomycin and Glutamax. For the bioassay fifty l 5 10cells of the cell suspension were aliquoted per test well of a flat bottom 96 well tissue culture plate. Control wells contained media but no cells. Serial dilutions for the protein samples and a WT IFN gamma standard were prepared in assay media phenol red free DMEM media supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum 50 units mL penicillin 50 micrograms mL streptomycin and 2 mM Glutamax. Fifty l of the diluted protein samples were added to the test wells in triplicate and the plates were incubated at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COtissue culture incubator for 4 days. On day 4 20 l of CellTiter 96 Aqueous One Solution Promega was added to each well and the plates incubated at 37 C. in the tissue culture incubator for 1 4 h. The plates are read at an absorbance of 490 nm using a microplate reader. Mean absorbance values for the triplicate control wells were subtracted from mean values obtained for the test wells. ICvalues were calculated for each protein and are shown in Table 3. The data indicate that in vitro bioactivities of the muteins were comparable to that of wild type IFN gamma. ICs for the proteins were within 2 fold of the ICfor wild type IFN gamma. Q1 is thought to be important for biological activity of interferon gamma thus it was unexpected to find that a mutant lacking Q1 had similar biological activity as wild type interferon gamma.

Rats 3 group were given a single intravenous IV injection 100 g kg of wild type IFN or 10 kDa PEG Cys IFN S84C . Blood samples are drawn at various times and frozen. A commercially available IFN ELISA kit R D systems was used to measure serum levels of the IFN proteins. Alternatively quantitative Westerns blots can be run to determine serum levels. Terminal pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated using WinNonlan software and non compartmental analysis. The circulating half lives were calculated to be 1.2 hr for wild type IFN and 9.5 hr for 10 kDa PEG Cys IFN S84C . These data indicate that the half lives of the PEGylated proteins were much longer than the half life of wild type IFN gamma.

In an analogous experiment rats 3 group were given single a intraperitoneal ip injection of wild type IFN 10 kDa PEG Cys IFN L103C 20 kDa PEG Cys IFN L103C or 40 kDa PEG Cys IFN L103C . Blood samples were drawn at various times and analyzed by the ELISA assay. The circulating half lives were calculated to be 

The relative efficacies of the PEGylated IFN variants as an anti tumor drug can be evaluated in a human tumor xenograft growth using human tumor cell lines such as NIH OVCAR 3 cells. in athymic nude mice Burke et al. 1999 Malik et al. 1991 . Inhibition of human tumor xenograft growth in nude mice occurs through a direct anti proliferative effect on the human tumor cells. Since these mice cannot mount an immune response potential immunogenicity problems resulting from use of human IFN proteins in mice will not be an issue.

Athymic nude mice can be purchased from a commercial vendor such as Charles River Laboratories. Each mouse is injected intraperitoneally or subcutaneously with 1 5 10NIH OVCAR 3 tumor cells on day 0 and randomly assigned to test groups consisting of ten mice each. Seven days later the different test groups receive ip sc or iv injections of human wild type IFN PEG Cys IFN or placebo vehicle solution at specified intervals every day ED every other day EOD or every third day ETD for 8 10 weeks. Doses of the proteins required for tumor growth inhibition can be determined experimentally and are expected to be in the range of 5 g mouse injection to 5 mg mouse injection. Tumor volumes in the test groups are measured over time. At time of sacrifice autopsies are performed to evaluate tumor burden and tumor weight. We expect that the tumors in the animals treated with PEG Cys IFN will be smaller than the placebo and wild type IFN groups.

We compared the ability of IFN gamma and the 40 kDa PEG L103C protein to inhibit growth of human NIH OVCAR 3 tumor cells transplanted into athymic nude mice. Female athymic nude nu nu mice were obtained from Charles River Wilmington Mass. . The NIH OVCAR 3 cells were grown in vitro harvested by trypsinization washed and resuspended at a concentration of 25 10cells per mL in a 50 50 mixture of MEM media Matrigel. Matrigel was purchased from BD Biosciences Bedford Mass. . Animals were randomized to different test groups according to body weight on Day 0. Mice 10 group received subcutaneous injections of 0.2 mL of the MEM media Matrigel mixture containing 5 10cells in the axillary area on Day 0. Animals received subcutaneous injections 0.2 mL animal of the test compounds beginning on Day 1 and continuing through Day 70 using a 3 week dosing schedule Monday Wednesday Friday . Mice were weighed on Day 0 prior to the injection of cells and on the days of tumor measurements. Tumors were measured weekly using calipers for 10 weeks post injection. Tumor volume was determined using a formula of width width length 2 . The different treatment groups received injections of vehicle solution phosphate buffered saline containing 0.1 mg mL of mouse albumin Sigma Aldrich Inc. St. Louis Mo. wild type IFN gamma in vehicle solution 15 g injection mouse or 40 kDa PEG L103C in vehicle solution 15 g injection mouse . Wild type IFN gamma was prepared by us.

Final tumor volumes and weights at necropsy on day 70 are summarized in Table 4. Mean tumor volumes of animals treated with wild type IFN gamma were on average larger than tumors in animals treated with vehicle solution indicating that there is no benefit of wild type IFN gamma versus placebo for inhibiting tumor growth at this dose and dosing frequency. Final mean tumor volumes in animals treated with wild type IFN gamma and vehicle solution were not statistically different from one another. In contrast mean tumor volumes in animals treated with PEG L103C were 51 smaller than mean tumor volumes in animals treated with vehicle solution and 68 smaller than mean tumor volumes in animals treated with wild type IFN gamma. The differences between mean tumor volumes in animals receiving PEG L103C and vehicle or wild type IFN gamma were statistically significant p

The efficacy of PEG Cys IFN as an anti infective drug can also be tested in a mouse model of chronic granulomatous disease CGD . A mouse knockout model of CGD has been developed by Jackson et al. 1995 that has a targeted disruption of the p47phox gene. Identical to human CGD leukocytes from p47phox mice produce no superoxide and are unable to kill staphylococci efficiently. The p47phox mice develop lethal infections and granulomatous inflammation similar to those encountered in human CGD patients. Researchers have investigated the prophylactic effect of IFN in the CGD mouse model p47phox form of CGD. In an animal study murine IFN 20 000 U or placebo was administered subcutaneously to p47phox mice. By 6 weeks of study there were 3 infections in the IFN treated group n 60 as compared with 13 infections in the placebo group n 58 77 reduction in infections p

For this study it is necessary to prepare the murine version of a PEG IFN cysteine mutein since there is no cross reactivity between species. Murine IFN is commonly used in mouse models of infectious diseases Jackson et al. 2001 Murray 1990 Flynn et al. 1993 .

Like its human counterpart murine IFN exists as a glycosylated noncovalent homodimer with similar secondary and tertiary structures. Therefore it is relatively straightforward to transfer the thiol specific PEGylation technology from the human protein to the mouse protein. FIG. 3 of Ealick et al. 1993 shows the alignment of the human and mouse gamma interferon amino acid sequences which can be used to choose appropriate mouse amino acids to change to cysteine residues. Murine human IFN hybrids have been made to identify the regions that are responsible for species specificity recognition of human IFN with the human IFN receptor Lundell et al. 1994 . In particular it appears that amino acids in the A B loop more specifically residues 20 23 and His 111 in Helix F play critical roles in species specific receptor interactions. Several papers describe the expression refolding and purification of murine IFN Nagata et al. 1886 Zavodny et al. 1988 Lundell et al. 1994 . The amino acid sequence of murine IFN is given in Sequence ID No. 2. When expressed in the protein may contain an N terminal methionine not found in the native protein. Mouse IFN gamma contains a C terminal cysteine residue. This cysteine residue can be deleted or substituted with another amino acid preferably alanine serine or threonine to facilitate expressions and purification of the protein.

The specific PEG Cys IFN to be used for these experiments 10 20 or 40 kDa PEG can be determined by the results of the rat PK experiments described above and their relative activities in the in vitro bioassay. The knockout mice are commercially available from Taconic Albany N.Y. in collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious diseases NIAD exchange program. Before the study begins the animals are maintained on a broad spectrum antibiotic. At the initiation of the experiment the antibiotics are removed from their water making them susceptible to infection. The animals are monitored three times weekly for gross evidence of infection for three months.

The ability of PEG Cys IFN proteins to inhibit viral replication can be determined using in vitro viral assays. The bioactivities of the cysteine muteins and the PEG Cys IFN proteins can be measured using an in vitro viral cytopathic effect inhibition assay Arakawa et al. 1985 . Human HEp2 or WISH cells ATCC are plated in 96 well plates 3 10cells well and grown to near confluency at 37 C. The cells are washed and treated for 24 hr with serial dilutions of the test proteins. Controls include no IFN wild type IFN prepared by us and wild type IFN purchased from a commercial vendor. Encephalomyocarditis virus EMCV is added at a multiplicity of infection of 0.1 and the plates incubated for a further 24 48 hr at 37 C. Additional controls include samples without virus. When 90 or more of the cells have been killed in the virus treated no IFN control wells determined by visual inspection of the wells an MTS solution is added to the wells. Absorbance of the wells is read at 490 nm after 1 4 hr. Samples are normally analyzed in triplicate. ICvalues can be used to compare the relative potencies of the PEG Cys IFN cysteine muteins. The ICvalue for commercially available IFN in this assay is typically between 0.05 0.15 ng ml.

Glucagon is a small peptide that is secreted by intestinal cells and acts primarily on the liver to stimulate glucose production and secretion. Glucagon is important for counteracting hypoglycemia. The amino acid sequence of glucagon is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 8. A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid T29. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 K12 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 N28 T29. These amino acid changes can be made in the context of native sequence glucagons or in the context of glucagon analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 510 459. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively glucagon can be modified with PEG at K12 using an amine reactive PEG reagent. Alternatively K12 can be changed to a non lysine residue preferably arginine and a new lysine residue introduced into the protein. An amine reactive PEG can then be attached to the added lysine residue. The added lysine residue can be inserted preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid T29. A lysine residue also can be added to the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 N28 T29. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence glucagons or in the context of glucagon analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 510 459. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Glucagon also can be modified at its N terminus using amine reactive moieties using methods well known in the art.

The modified glucagon proteins can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods known in the art.

Glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 is a 31 amino acid peptide synthesized primarily by the L cells of the intestine in response to nutrient ingestion. The protein also exists as a 30 amino acid form called the amide form in which G31 is absent. The protein is expressed as part of a larger polypeptide proglucagon that is proteolytically cleaved to yield GLP 1 glucagon oxyntomodulin OXM and glucagon like peptide 2 GLP 2 and several additional peptides. The amino acid sequence of GLP 1 is conserved among mammals. GLP 1 has several properties that suggest it may prove useful for treating diabetes and obesity. GLP 1 acts on the pancreas to stimulate proinsulin gene expression insulin secretion and inhibit glucagon secretion. These effects of GLP 1 are glucose dependent thus GLP 1 may provide a safe mechanism for lowering elevated blood glucose levels such as is seen in diabetes. GLP 1 also stimulates growth and proliferation of pancreatic beta cells which are the pancreatic cells responsible for synthesizing insulin. Thus GLP 1 could be used to increase beta cell mass or increase insulin secretion potential in patients with diabetes. GLP 1 also reduces caloric intake reduces hunger sensations and slows gastric emptying and acid secretion suggesting that it may prove useful as an anti obesity drug. Since many type 2 diabetics are obese GLP 1 could provide a dual mechanism for improving the physiology of these patients both by decreasing weight and improving their ability to synthesize and utilize insulin.

The amino acid sequence of GLP 1 is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 9. A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid G31. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 V10 S11 S12 Y13 L14 E15 G16 Q17 A18 A19 K20 E21 F22 I23 A24 W25 L26 V27 K28 G29 R30 and G31. These amino acid changes can be made in the context of the 1 30 amino acid form of GLP 1 or the 1 31 amino acid form of GLP 1. These amino acids can be made in the context of GLP 1 analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 458 924 U.S. Pat. No. 6 620 910 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 365 U.S. Pat. No. 7 041 646 U.S. Pat. No. 7 067 488 U.S. Pat. No. 7 101 843 U.S. Pat. No. 7 138 486 U.S. Pat. No. 7 199 217 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 211 557. A preferred GLP 1 analog is one that inhibits cleavage of H1 and A2 from the peptide by proteases. A preferred GLP 1 analog is one in which A2 is changed to a non alanine amino acid preferably serine glycine or cysteine. Another preferred GLP 1 analog is one in which E3 is substituted with an a non glutamic acid amino acid such as proline which prevents proteolytic cleavage of H1 and A2 from the peptide. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively GLP 1 can be modified with PEG at one or both of the lysine residues K20 and K28. To make the PEG reaction specific for a particular lysine residue K20 or K28 can be changed to a non lysine amino acid preferably arginine and the mutant protein modified with PEG at the remaining lysine residue. Additionally both lysine residues K20 and K28 can be changed to non lysine residues and a new lysine residue introduced into the protein. The new lysine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid G31. A lysine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 V10 S11 S12 Y13 L14 E15 G16 Q17 A18 A19 E21 F22 I23 A24 W25 L26 V27 G29 R30 and G31. These amino acid changes can be made in the context of the 1 30 amino acid form of GLP 1 or the 1 31 amino acid form of GLP 1. These amino acids can be made in the context of GLP 1 analogs such as those described in the preceding paragraph. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

GLP 1 also can be modified at its N terminus using methods described in the art. The modified GLP 1 proteins can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods well known in the art.

GLP 2 is a small peptide secreted by intestinal cells. GLP 2 acts locally within the intestine to stimulate intestinal crypt cell proliferation inhibit intestinal cell apoptosis and expand the mucosal epithelium. GLP 2 also promotes nutrient absorption. The amino acid sequence of GLP 2 is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 10. A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid D33. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 D3 G4 S5 F6 S7 D8 E9 M10 N11 T12 I13 L14 D15 N16 L17 A18 A19 R20 D21 F22 I23 N24 W25 L26 I27 Q28 T29 K30 I31 T32 and D33. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence GLP 2 or in the context of GLP 2 analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 567 U.S. Pat. No. 7 056 886 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 952 301. A preferred GLP 3 analog is one that inhibits cleavage of H1 and A2 from the peptide by proteases. A preferred GLP 2 analog is one in which A2 is changed to a non alanine amino acid preferably serine glycine or cysteine. Another preferred GLP 2 analog is one in which D3 is substituted with a non aspartic acid amino acid such as proline which prevents proteolytic cleavage of H1 and A2 from the peptide. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively GLP 1 can be modified with an amine reactive moiety at K30. Alternatively K30 can be changed to a non lysine residue preferably arginine and a new lysine residue introduced into the protein. An amine reactive moiety can then be attached to the newly added lysine residue. The new lysine residue can be inserted preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid D33. A lysine residue also can be added to the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 A2 D3 G4 S5 F6 S7 D8 E9 M10 N11 T12 I13 L14 D15 N16 L17 A18 A19 R20 D21 F22 I23 N24 W25 L26 I27 Q28 T29 I31 T32 D33. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence GLP 2 or GLP 2 analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 567 U.S. Pat. No. 7 056 886 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 952 301. A preferred GLP 2 analog is one in which A2 is changed to a non alanine amino acid preferably serine or glycine. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

GLP 2 also can be modified at its N terminus using methods well known in the art. The modified GLP 2 proteins can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods well known in the art.

The amino acid sequence of exendin 4 is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 11. Exendin is a GLP 1 agonist and exerts similar functions as GLP 1. A cysteine residue can be inserted preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid S38. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 G2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 L10 S11 K12 W13 M14 E15 E16 E17 A18 V19 R20 L21 F22 I23 E24 W25 L26 K27 N28 G29 G30 P31 S32 S33 G34 A35 P36 P37 and S38. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence exendin 4 of exendin 4 analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 767 887 U.S. Pat. No. 6 924 264 U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 569 U.S. Pat. No. 7 153 825 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 157 555. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively exendin 4 can be modified with an amine reactive moiety at one or both of the lysine residues K12 and K27. To make the reaction specific for a particular lysine residue K12 or K27 can be changed to a non lysine amino acid preferably arginine and the mutant protein modified with an amine reactive moiety at the remaining lysine residue. Additionally both lysine residues K12 and K27 can be changed to non lysine residues preferably arginine residues and a new lysine residue introduced elsewhere in the protein. The new lysine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid S38. A lysine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 G2 E3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 L10 S11 W13 M14 E15 E16 E17 A18 V19 R20 L21 F22 I23 E24 W25 L26 N28 G29 G30 P31 S32 S33 G34 A35 P36 P37 and S38. These amino acid changes can be made in the context of native sequence exendin 4 or in the context of exendin 4 analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 767 887 U.S. Pat. No. 6 924 264 U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 569 U.S. Pat. No. 7 153 825 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 157 555. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Exendin 4 also can be modified at its N terminus using methods described in the art. The modified exendin 4 proteins can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods known in the art.

Peptide YY PYY is a small peptide secreted by the intestine. PYY functions to control food intake. The amino acid sequences of human PYY is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 12. A truncated form of PYY in which amino acids 1 and 2 are deleted is referred to as PYY 3 36. An alternative form of PYY includes a P at position 34 P34 . A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid Y1 or following the last amino acid Y36. A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid 13 of the PYY 3 36 form of the peptide. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 P2 I3 K4 P5 E6 A7 P8 G9 E10 D11 A12 S13 P14 E15 E16 L17 N18 R19 Y20 Y21 A22 S23 L24 R25 H26 Y27 L28 N29 L30 V31 T32 R33 Q34 R35 and Y36. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence PYY or PYY 3 36 or in the context of PYY or PYY 3 36 analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 046 167 U.S. Pat. No. 5 328 899 U.S. Pat. No. 5 026 685 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 186 692. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

PYY also can be modified with an amine reactive moiety at the N terminal Y1 amino acid or at the K4 amino acid. Alternatively K4 can be changed to a non lysine amino acid preferably arginine and a new lysine residue introduced into the protein. The new lysine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid Y1 or following the last amino acid Y31. A lysine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 P2 I3 P5 E6 A7 P8 G9 E10 D11 A12 S13 P14 E15 E16 L17 N18 R19 Y20 Y21 A22 S23 L24 R25 H26 Y27 L28 N29 L30 V31 T32 R33 Q34 R35 and Y36. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence PYY or PYY 3 36 or in the context of PYY or PYY 3 36 analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 046 167 U.S. Pat. No. 5 328 899 U.S. Pat. No. 5 026 685 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 186 692. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

PYY or PYY 3 36 also can be modified at its N terminus using methods described in the art. The modified PYY and PYY 3 36 peptides can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods well known in the art.

Ghrelin is a 28 amino acid peptide that was originally isolated from the stomach. The amino acid sequence of Ghrelin is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 13. Ghrelin circulates in the body in both an acylated form AC ghrelin and a non acylated NA ghrelin form with the non acylated form predominating under most situations. AC ghrelin has an n octanoic fatty acid attached to the hydroxyl group of Ser3. AC ghrelin binds a G protein coupled receptor GHSR1a which is preferentially expressed in the pituitary and hypothalamus and is distinct from the growth hormone releasing factor receptor. The GHSR1a receptor also is expressed in a variety of tissues including adrenal and thyroid gland heart liver kidney and skeletal muscle. NA ghrelin can bind a different uncharacterized receptor that is expressed in heart muscle and certain other tissues. AC ghrelin is a naturally occurring growth hormone GH secretagogue. Administration of the AC ghrelin to animals and humans increases circulating GH prolactin ACTH and cortisol levels decreases serum insulin levels increases plasma glucose levels in causes hyperglycemia. NA ghrelin does not cause these changes. NA ghrelin appears to inhibit the endocrine functions of ghrelin but not the neuroendocrine functions of AC ghrelin. NA ghrelin inhibits the appetite stimulating effects of AC ghrelin in humans. NA ghrelin also inhibits apoptosis of cardiac mycotyes. Both AC ghrelin and NA ghrelin share certain functions such as cardiovascular actions and may be useful for treating heart disease. Both AC ghrelin and NA ghrelin inhibit cell death in cardiomyocytes and endothelial cells and both peptides stimulate proliferation of osteoblast cell lines in vitro. NA ghrelin has the potential to function as an anti obesity drug in people. NA ghrelin also slows emptying of gastric contents. AC ghrelin stimulates appetite in people and may prove useful for treating metabolic and eating disorders such as cachexia and anorexia. Ghrelin secretion is stimulated by fasting and energy restriction and inhibited by food intake glucose insulin and somatostatin. Ghrelin levels are increased in anorexia and cachexia and decreased in obesity.

In short term studies mice treated with NA ghrelin decreased food intake and slowed the rate of gastric emptying. These physiological changes were mediated through NA ghrelin action on the hypothalamus. Thus NA ghrelin appears to cause a negative energy balance in the body. Transgenic mice overexpressing NA ghrelin displayed decreased linear growth lower food intake and decreased body weight. These mice displayed lower serum IGF I and GH levels compared to control mice. NA ghrelin transgenic mice responded to GHRH but displayed a blunted response to AC ghrelin administration suggesting that NA ghrelin can function as a specific AC ghrelin antagonist. NA ghrelin transgenic mice still responded normally to GH releasing hormone indicating that the antagonist effect was specific for AC ghrelin and not all GH releasing hormones.

Ghrelin has a circulating half life of 27 31 min following intravenous administration to humans. AC ghrelin has a shorter half life of 9 13 min possibly due to more rapid degradation.

A cysteine residue can be inserted preceding the first amino acid G1 or following the last amino acid R28 of ghrelin. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of G1 S2 S3 F4 L5 S6 P7 E8 H9 Q10 R11 V12 Q13 Q14 R15 K16 E17 S18 K19 K20 P21 P22 A23 K24 L25 Q26 P27 and R28. These amino acids can be made in the context of acylated or nonacylated ghrelin. These amino acid changes can be made in the context of ghrelin analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 176 292 U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 767 U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 562 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 967 237. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively Ghrelin can be modified with an amine reactive moiety at the N terminus or at one or all of the lysine residues K16 K19 K20 and K24. To make the modification reaction specific for a particular lysine residue K16 K19 K20 or K24 can be changed to a non lysine amino acid preferably arginine and the mutant protein modified with an amine reactive moiety at the remaining lysine residue. Additionally all of the lysine residues K16 K19 K20 and K24 can be changed to non lysine residues preferably arginine residues and a new lysine residue introduced into the protein. The new lysine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid G1 or following the last amino acid R28. A lysine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of G1 S2 S3 F4 L5 S6 P7 E8 H9 Q10 R11 V12 Q13 Q14 R15 E17 S18 P21 P22 A23 L25 Q26 P27 and R28. These amino acids can be made in the context of other Ghrelin analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 176 292 U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 767 U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 562 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 967 237. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Ghrelin also can be modified at its N terminus using methods described in the art. The modified ghrelin proteins can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods well known in the art.

Oxyntomodulin OXM is a small peptide secreted by the L cells of the intestine. OXM serves to decrease food intake and decrease weight gain and thus may prove useful for treating obesity. The amino acid sequence of OXM is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 14. OXM is a derivative of glucagon in which the sequence DTKRNKNNIA SEQ ID NO 15 is added to the first 27 amino acids of glucagon. A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid A38. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 K12 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 N28 D29 T30 K31 R32 N33 K34 N35 N36 137 A38. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence OXM or OXM analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 858 975. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively OXM can be modified with an amine reactive moiety at its n terminus or at one or all of the lysine residues K12 K31 and K34. To make the modification reaction specific for a particular lysine residue K12 K31 or K34 can be changed to a non lysine amino acid preferably arginine and the mutant protein modified with an amine reactive moiety at the remaining lysine residue. Additionally all of the lysine residues K12 K31 and K34 can be changed to non lysine residues preferably arginine residues and a new lysine residue introduced into the protein. The new lysine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid H1 or following the last amino acid A38. A lysine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of H1 S2 Q3 G4 T5 F6 T7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 Y13 L14 D15 S16 R17 R18 A19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 Q24 W25 L26 M27 N28 D29 T30 R32 N33 N35 N36 I37 A38. These amino acids can be made in the context of other OXM analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 858 975. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

OXM also can be modified at its N terminus using methods described in the art. The modified OXM proteins can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods well known in the art.

Gastric inhibitory peptide GIP is a small 42 amino acid peptide secreted by the intestine. GIP increases insulin secretion by the pancreas and may prove useful for treating diabetes. The amino acid sequence of GIP is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 16. A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid Y1 or following the last amino acid Q42. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 I7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 I12 A13 M14 D15 K16 I17 H18 Q19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 N24 W25 L26 L27 A28 Q29 K30 G31 K32 K33 N34 D35 W36 K37 H38 N39 I40 T41 and Q42. These amino acids can be made in the context of other native sequence GIP or GIP agonist and antagonist analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 410 508 U.S. Pat. No. 6 921 748 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 091 183 and in Green et al. Curr. Pharm. Des. 2004 v 10 pages 3651 3662 Irwin et al. 2006 Biochem Pharmacol v. 72 pages 719 728 Alana et al. 2006 J. Biol. Chem. 281 16370 16376 Gault et al. 2002 Biochem J. v 367 913 920 Gault et al. 2003 J. Endocrinology v. 176 pages 133 141. A preferred analog is one that prevents cleavage of Y1 and A2 from the peptide by proteases. A preferred analog is one in which E3 is substituted with a non glutamic acid amino acid that prevents cleavage of Y1 and A2 from the peptide. A preferred antagonist analog is one in which E3 is substituted with proline. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively GIP can be modified with an amine reactive moiety at its N terminus or at one or all of the lysine residues K16 K30 K32 K33 and K37. To make the modification reaction specific for a particular lysine residue K16 K30 K32 K33 or K37 can be changed to a non lysine amino acid preferably arginine and the mutant protein modified with an amine reactive moiety at the remaining lysine residue. Additionally all of the lysine residues K16 K30 K32 K33 and K37 can be changed to non lysine residues preferably arginine residues and a new lysine residue introduced into the protein. The new lysine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid Y1 or following the last amino acid Q42. A lysine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of Y1 A2 E3 G4 T5 F6 I7 S8 D9 Y10 S11 I12 A13 M14 D15 I17 H18 Q19 Q20 D21 F22 V23 N24 W25 L26 L27 A28 Q29 G31 N34 D35 W36 H38 N39 I40 T41 and Q42. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence GIP or GIP agonist and antagonist analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 410 508 U.S. Pat. No. 6 921 748 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 091 183 and in Green et al. Curr. Pharm. Des. 2004 v 10 pages 3651 3662 Irwin et al. 2006 Biochem Pharmacol v. 72 pages 719 728 Alana et al. 2006 J. Biol. Chem. 281 16370 16376 Gault et al. 2002 Biochem J. v 367 913 920 Gault et al. 2003 J. Endocrinology v. 176 pages 133 141. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The amine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

GIP also can be modified at its N terminus using methods described in the art. The modified GIP proteins can be tested for in vitro and in vivo biological activity using methods well known in the art.

Amylin is a 37 amino acid peptide that is cosecreted with insulin by the pancreas in response to food intake. Amylin plays a role in maintaining proper glucose levels by inhibiting glucagon secretion under conditions of hyperglycemia. Amylin also slows gastric emptying and promotes satiety and thus may play a role in feeding and nutrition disorders. The amino acid sequence of amylin is represented herein by SEQ ID NO 17. Amylin contains two native cysteine at positions 2 and 7. These two cysteines form a disulfide bond. The carboxy terminal tyrosine residue normally is amidated. A cysteine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid K1 or following the last amino acid Y37. A cysteine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of K1 N3 T4 A5 T6 A8 T9 Q10 R11 L12 A13 N14 F15 L16 V17 H18 S19 S20 N21 N22 F23 G24 A25 I26 L27 S28 S29 T30 N31 V32 G33 S34 N35 T36 Y37. These amino acids can be made in the context of other amylin analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 367 052 U.S. Pat. No. 5 686 411 U.S. Pat. No. 6 087 334 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 610 824. The cysteine variants of the present invention can be modified with cysteine reactive moieties such as cysteine reactive PEGs. The cysteine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

Alternatively amylin can be modified with an amine reactive moiety at its N terminus K1. A lysine residue can be added preceding the first amino acid K1 or following the last amino acid Y37. A lysine residue also can be introduced into the protein by substitution for at least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of C2 N3 T4 A5 T6 C7 A8 T9 Q10 R11 L12 A13 N14 F15 L16 V17 H18 S19 S20 N21 N22 F23 G24 A25 I26 L27 S28 S29 T30 N31 V32 G33 S34 N35 T36 Y37. These amino acids can be made in the context of native sequence amylin or amylin analogs such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 367 052 U.S. Pat. No. 5 686 411 U.S. Pat. No. 6 087 334 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 610 824. These amino acid changes can be made in the context of native sequence amylin or a variant in which K1 is changed to a non lysine amino acid preferably arginine. The lysine variants of the present invention can be modified with amine reactive moieties such as amine reactive PEGs. The lysine modified peptides can be purified from unmodified peptides by any of a number of methods known in the art such as column chromatography.

The peptides of the preceding Examples 11 19 can be synthesized by chemical methods or expressed as recombinant proteins using recombinant DNA technology. Methods for expressing and or refolding proteins containing added or unpaired cysteine residues are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 753 165 and 7 153 943 and 7 306 931 and in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. PCT US01 16088 and US 20070111240 all of which are incorporated herein by reference. In a preferred embodiment bioactive peptides having free cysteines and lacking essential disulfides are refolded using the novel method of refolding a protein or peptide as described in detail herein.

Each of the following applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 870 022 filed Dec. 14 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 773 530 filed Feb. 5 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 7 148 333 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 183 PCT Application Serial No. PCT US98 14497 filed Jul. 13 1998 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 052 516 filed Jul. 14 1997.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it is apparent that modifications and adaptations of those embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art. It is to be expressly understood however that such modifications and adaptations are within the scope of the present invention as set forth above and in the following claims.

