---

title: Reducing acoustic coupling to microphone on printed circuit board
abstract: A mobile computing device comprises a printed circuit board, a processing circuit, a surface mount microphone, and a vibration attenuation portion. The processing circuit is disposed on a first portion of the printed circuit board. The surface mount microphone is disposed on a second portion of the printed circuit board. The vibration attenuation portion of the board is configured to attenuate vibrations from the first to the second portion of the printed circuit board.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08259982&OS=08259982&RS=08259982
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08259982
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070417
---
Microphones are used in a variety of electronic devices such as mobile telephones and wireless headsets. When mounted on a printed circuit board microphones may pick up noise and vibration from the housing of the electronic device when a user presses keys handles the phone etc. This is especially true with surface mount microphones.

One approach is to mount the microphone on a separate daughter PCB and couple the daughter PCB to the main PCB by a flex circuit. However this approach can have drawbacks in the areas of cost reliability manufacturing and size.

Accordingly what is needed is a system and method for reducing acoustic coupling to a microphone on a printed circuit board. Further what is needed is a system and method for reducing acoustic coupling between a microphone and a printed circuit board with improved manufacturability reliability cost and or packaging.

The teachings herein extend to those embodiments which fall within the scope of the appended claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the above mentioned needs.

Referring first to a mobile computing device is shown. Device is a smart phone which is a handheld computer comprising both mobile telephone and personal digital assistant functionality. A handheld computer is a computer small enough to be carried in a user s hand while the device is in use which would include typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but exclude typical laptop computers. While described with regards to a hand held device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices or other electronic devices e.g. a laptop computer a desktop personal computer a wireless headset a digital memo recorder an internet protocol IP telephone a desktop telephone a home or office security system etc. .

Personal digital assistants are configured to synchronize personal information from one or more applications with a remote computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. over a wired or wireless connection.

According to an exemplary embodiment mobile computing device comprises a housing configured to hold a display e.g. a display screen in a fixed relationship above a user input device e.g. a plurality of alphabetic input keys in a substantially parallel or same plane. This fixed relationship embodiment excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and plurality of keys.

Housing could be any size shape dimension and material e.g. plastic metal etc. and comprises a front side and a back side . In some embodiments housing has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm or a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm or a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm or a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. In some embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 2500 cubic centimeters and or up to about 1500 cubic centimeters.

Device further comprises an earpiece speaker loudspeaker and microphone . Earpiece speaker may be an electro acoustic transducer configured to provide audio output with a volume suitable for a user placing earpiece against or near the ear. Loudspeaker may be an electro acoustic transducer that converts electrical signals into sounds loud enough to be heard at a distance. Loudspeaker can be used for a speakerphone function. Microphone e.g. a surface mount or other microphone or other acoustic sense element is coupled to a bottom edge of housing . In alternative embodiments display user input device earpiece loudspeaker and microphone may each be positioned anywhere on front side back side or the edges there between.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Device may be configured to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit comprising various electronic components such as a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise additional processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI etc. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS etc. The operating system may be an open platform operating system to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download Secure Digital card etc.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

User input device may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad an alphanumeric keypad and so forth.

Display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

Device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers configured to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Referring now to a printed circuit board assembly comprising a printed circuit board is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. PCB may alternatively be any type of substrate configured to hold electronic components in an electronic device. Any of the electronic components disclosed in or other components may be disposed on PCB which may be a single PCB or a plurality of PCBs e.g. which may be coupled together by one or more ribbon cables flex circuits etc.

PCB comprises a vibration attenuation portion configured to attenuate vibrations from a first portion of PCB to a second portion of PCB . In this exemplary embodiment vibration attenuation portion comprises a portion of PCB which defines at least one aperture between first and second portions . Aperture attenuates or blocks waves traveling between portions and because sound waves will not travel as well through air as they will along the substrate of PCB . In alternative embodiments a plurality of apertures may be defined which may be perforations or slots and may be elongated or non elongated. In further alternative embodiments vibration attenuation portion can comprise a material extending between first and second portions which may or may not contain apertures or perforations which material may be an acoustic insulating material a vibration isolating material a shock absorbing material and or a material which is different than the material of portions . Vibration attenuation portion can comprise an elastomer polymer rubber sponge or other material. Any of these materials or others or apertures or perforations may be means for reducing vibrations between first and second portions . Vibration attenuation portion can attenuate or isolate a small amount of vibration a large amount of vibration or all vibrations in various embodiments.

Referring again to microphone is coupled to second portion . Microphone may be a surface mount microphone as shown in illustration which is a microphone which is compatible with common surface mount equipment and may be placed on a PCB during the same assembly step during which other surface mount components are placed. According to some embodiments a surface mount microphone may be picked and placed from a tape and reel. The surface mount microphone may be wave soldered along with integrated circuits and passive components. A surface mount microphone provides a more reliable repeatable connection without the need for a hand assembly process or a connector and with less chance of electrostatic discharge ESD related damage. Microphone may be any type of microphone such as a condenser or capacitor dynamic carbon piezo liquid Microelectromechanical System MEMS or silicon laser or speaker microphone. For example microphone may be an electret condenser microphone ECM which may or may not have leads and which may be coupled to a PCB by spring contacts or elastomer connections during mechanical assembly of the product after PCB reflow. The ECM may comprise a cartridge within a cylinder within a rubber case. A surface mount microphone may comprise an electret condenser sense element a silicon or MEMS sense element or any other sensing technology. One example is a SiSonic silicon microphone a MEMS surface mount microphone manufactured by Knowles Acoustics Itasca Ill. such as the one shown in illustration . The exemplary surface mount microphone shown in illustration comprises a package having leadless conductive contacts which mount to conductive contacts on PCB and a rectangular package though other shaped packages are contemplated . A SiSonic microphone contains a MEMS diaphragm a complimentary metal oxide semicondutor CMOS amplifier and various capacitor configurations encased in a grounded metal Faraday cage. Electrically a SiSonic microphone is a three wire microphone ECMs are typically two wire . The teachings herein may be particularly advantageous for certain types of microphones such as surface mount microphones or other surface mount components which tend to be affected more by vibrations and noise traveling along the surface of PCB than their leaded counterparts.

According to some embodiments vibration attenuation portion comprises at least one bridge extending between apertures . Bridges may be of any size thickness or shape and may be of sufficient size to support portion without easily breaking. For example an exemplary PCB having from about 6 to about 8 layers may be about 1 millimeter thick. An exemplary width and length of an aperture of vibration attenuation portion is about 1 millimeter wide and about 0.5 millimeter long though widths less than or greater than about 1 millimeter wide and or lengths of less than or greater than about 0.5 millimeter long are contemplated. In various embodiments bridges may provide support for portion and may provide a path for conductors or wires extending between microphone and components on portion . For example microphone may be coupled via conductors extending on the top bottom or through the middle of bridges to processing circuit .

In the embodiment of processing circuit is disposed on first portion and microphone is disposed on second portion . In some embodiments input device is also coupled to first portion so that vibrations caused by key presses are attenuated before reaching microphone . In some embodiments first portion is coupled to housing e.g. with a suitable fastener or fasteners such as a screw adhesive mount etc. while second portion is not coupled to housing so that vibrations caused by hand movement or rubbing of housing are attenuated by vibrating attenuation portion before reaching microphone . In some embodiments other electrical or electromechanical components may be coupled to portion along with microphone for example a microprocessor a radio circuit a keypad a light emitting diode connectors for a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card connectors for a multi media card MMC or other memory cards backup battery switches light or proximity detectors passive electronic components radio antenna Bluetooth or wi fi module headset connector etc. Alternatively microphone may be the only component coupled to portion .

Referring now to various configurations of vibration attenuation portion are illustrated. shows an embodiment in which second portion extends to at least one edge of PCB and vibration attenuation portion substantially surrounds microphone along with the at least one edge. shows an embodiment in which vibration attenuation portion comprises a single aperture or recess and a single bridge portion connecting portions and . In this embodiment microphone is disposed substantially in a corner of PCB . shows an embodiment in which vibration attenuation portion is curved and does not substantially surround microphone but still provides a level of vibration attenuation. shows an embodiment in which vibration attenuation portion comprises a material coupling portion to portion . In this embodiment an aperture may completely or partially separate portion from and material may wholly or partially couple portion to portion . shows an embodiment in which attenuation portion substantially surrounds microphone and microphone is disposed without a common edge with PCB . In this embodiment portion is substantially surrounded by portion . shows an embodiment having a plurality of portions at least partially isolated from PCB by vibration attenuation portions and in which microphone is a leaded ECM microphone having a cartridge and cylinder arrangement. shows an embodiment having a vibration attenuation portion extending from one edge to an opposite edge of PCB . As can be seen many alternative configurations are contemplated.

Referring now to an embodiment is shown in which PCB is a multi layer PCB which may have any number of a plurality of layers such as at least six layers and less than ten layers. In some embodiments multi layer PCB may have two or more layers. In this embodiment vibration attenuation portion e.g. apertures or perforations in this embodiment extends through all layers of PCB though in alternative embodiments portion may extend only through one or a plurality of all layers. Conductors may extend along any or all layers of multi layer PCB at bridges between first portion and second portion .

Referring now to an embodiment is shown in which microphone or other component on portion is sealed encased and or encapsulated within a shock absorbing or stabilizing material . Shock absorbing material may absorb movement vibration or acoustic waves and may comprise one or more of a rubber a polymer an elastomer a sponge or other material and may be a mass of any shape such as a gasket. Shock absorbing material completely encapsulates microphone in this embodiment but may alternatively only partially encapsulate microphone or may completely or partially encapsulate portion of PCB . Material may also be disposed on a bottom surface of PCB beneath microphone as shown in FIG. C. Material on bottom surface is compressed against housing . To maintain compression pressure is exerted from housing a rear portion thereof on bottom surface behind microphone . Shock absorbing material may be applied to reduce coupling from housing to bottom surface .

According to some embodiments an aperture or recess extends from an audio or sound inlet or aperture within a housing of microphone through material to another surface of material . An outlet of aperture can be aligned with an aperture in housing disposed near the expected area of input of an audio signal e.g. near the bottom edge of housing . In this way acoustic signals can travel through material to microphone unimpeded by material .

Referring now to an exemplary method of making a printed circuit board assembly according to an exemplary embodiment is disclosed. At step a substrate is provided suitable for a printed circuit board. At step conductors apertures and perforations are provided by machining routing lithography and other processes. In an embodiment wherein vibration attenuation portion comprises apertures or perforations such features are machined or routed during this step and may be routed using a computer controlled router. At step surface mount components are attached to the PCB to form the PCB assembly. Advantageously in an embodiment where microphone is a surface mount microphone the microphone may be applied or attached during the same process step as other surface mount components. In an embodiment where microphone is a surface mount microphone the microphone may be placed by a machine instead of by a person. At step the surface mount components are reflowed or wave soldered. At step shock absorbing material can be applied to microphone and or second portion of PCB . Other steps are represented by step such as applying other non surface mount components e.g. through hole components etc . The steps of may be rearranged in any manner in various alternative embodiments.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the FIGS and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

