---

title: Method for reducing the refresh rate of Fiber Bragg Grating sensors
abstract: The invention provides a method of obtaining the FBG data in final form (transforming the raw data into frequency and location data) by taking the raw FBG sensor data and dividing the data into a plurality of segments over time. By transforming the raw data into a plurality of smaller segments, processing time is significantly decreased. Also, by defining the segments over time, only one processing step is required. By employing this method, the refresh rate of FBG sensor systems can be improved from about 1 scan per second to over 20 scans per second.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700358&OS=08700358&RS=08700358
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08700358
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070307
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to improving sensors more particularly to improving Fiber Bragg Grating FBG sensors and most specifically to improving the interrogation refresh rate of fiber bragg grating sensors.

FBG sensors which are basically gratings along optical fibers that act as mirrors to light sources provide many attractive characteristics compared to other sensing systems. These include their inherent light weight small size and immunity to electromagnetic radiation and radio frequency interference.

These features enable using many sensors on a single optical fiber at either interval or arbitrary spacing. Thus a user can interrogate each sensor independently and obtain a distributed measurement over large structures. Because the gratings are multiplexed on a single fiber many sensors can be accessed with a single connection to the optical source and detector. Conventional electronic strain gauge sensors require each sensor to have its lead wires attached and routed to the sensor readout. Therefore for many types of large structures or remote sensing FBG sensors provide a significant improvement over electronic strain gauge sensors.

Due to the above FBG sensors are highly attractive to the aerospace community. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 798 521 discloses an apparatus and method for measuring strain in structures using a plurality of FBG sensors and an improvement to this apparatus and method is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 566 648. These patents are hereby incorporated by reference into this application. While the systems described in these patents do provide certain advantages to electronic strain gauge systems one major disadvantage relates to the interrogation refresh rate. The maximum interrogation refresh rate employing the system described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 798 521 and 6 566 648 has been improved to approximately 1 scan per second. However the desired refresh rate for strain sensor systems for the aerospace community is about a minimum of 10 scans per second.

Therefore it is desired to provide an Optical Frequency Domain Reflectometry OFDR FBG sensor system that increases the refresh rate so OFDR FBG sensor systems may be employed by the aerospace community and other industrial communities requiring increased sensor refresh rates.

The invention proposed herein comprises a method of increasing the interrogation refresh rate of FGB sensors to enable their use more widely within the aerospace community and within other industrial communities requiring sensor systems having fast refresh rates. More specifically the invention significantly decreases the time needed to process the raw data obtained in each scan of an FGB sensor so the sensor refresh rates are significantly increased.

It is a further object of this invention to provide a method of increasing the interrogation refresh rate of FGB sensors.

This invention meets these and other objectives related to improved sensors by providing a method of increasing the interrogation refresh rate of FOB sensors. Using a linearly sweep tunable laser source a first scan of the gratings along the fibers is taken during a single sweep. This results of a raw data stream of data over a period of time. This raw data stream is divided into a plurality of segments based on a portion of the time period. The data segments are transformed using a Fourier Transform resulting in frequency grating position GP . Each transformed segments represents the frequency content of a single time slice of the original raw data. When this data is plotted where the wavelength data is equivalent to the time to obtain the data segments the locations of the gratings of the FOB sensors can be determined. From this information a center of mass calculation can be performed to obtain a final reading for each grating. Because this method increases the speed of processing the information tremendously the next scan of the gratings along the fiber may be done more quickly than using previous methods. When the method is repeated a second set of grating location data is obtained. The change in strain can be seen by comparing the sets of data.

FBG sensors operate under the principle that a change in strain or temperature alters the sensor grating spacing which shifts the reflected wavelength proportionally. To measure wavelength shifts that result directly from changes in temperature or strain OFDR FBG sensor systems must include a light source that continuously interrogates the reflection spectrum and a detection module that records the shifts in the peak reflectivity versus wavelength.

The interrogation refresh rate for OFDR FBG sensor systems depend on the speed of the optical source the bandwidth of the detectors the data acquisition rate and the rate at which the analysis of the wavelength shift can be performed. Due to the latter factor the rate at which the analysis of the wavelength shift can be performed current OFDR FBG sensor systems cannot effectively be employed for in situ aerospace systems. This is due to the fact that current OFDR FBG sensor systems have a refresh rate of about 1 scan per second mainly resulting from the extended time required to accomplish the wavelength shift analysis. However in situ general aerospace system analysis requires a refresh rate of about 10 scans per second to be useful.

The current method of processing the data in order to analyze the wavelength shift is as follows. All of the data is processed using a large order Fast Fourier Transform FFT to map the wavelength varying FBG sensor signal into its frequency components. This is followed by a series of much smaller inverse FFTs for each grating of interest on the FBG sensor. Basically the data is transformed into a frequency GP signal in order to obtain the location of each grating and its associated data and then back into a time wavelength signal. Unfortunately because the complexity of FFTs increases with increased order the large order FFT is an inefficient method of processing the data. This is a major factor in the relatively slow interrogation refresh rate of current OFDR FBG sensor systems.

For the below description of the present invention the time periods discussed herein are analogous to wavelength data and may be used interchangeably. Also the term frequency data is analogous to position data in that the frequency data is the position on the fiber or length traveled down the fiber.

The present invention uses a different approach to processing the data from the FBG sensors to obtain increased interrogation refresh rate. In general the invention provides a method of obtaining the FBG data in final form transforming the raw data into frequency and time wavelength data by taking the raw FBG sensor data and dividing the data into a plurality of segments over time wavelength. By transforming the raw data into a plurality of smaller segments processing time is significantly decreased. Also by defining the segments over time wavelength only one processing step is required rather than requiring the inverse FFT step described above after initial transformation . By employing this method the refresh rate of FBG sensor systems can be improved from about 1 scan per second to over 24 scans per second using current processing technology.

More specifically the invention comprises an improved method for obtaining final sensor data from raw FBG sensor data. Because the improved method is significantly faster than previous methods the refresh rate of the FBG sensor system is significantly increased. Raw data is received from a plurality of FBG gratings located along a single fiber. The raw data stream is divided into a plurality of raw data segments each raw data segment is associated with a portion of the time wavelength. An FFT is performed on each raw data segment to obtain frequency positional magnitudes. The computed frequency magnitudes for a given data segments gives indication of the presence of a grating response for the corresponding time wavelength. This magnitude information is accumulated from one data segment to the next throughout the raw data stream.

To complete the processing of the information in order to obtain changes in strain or temperature etc. related to the FBG sensor s a center of mass CM calculation is performed. A CM calculation is performed for each frequency GP of interest with respect to the accumulated data segment results. When the center of mass data for each grating is identified for second and subsequent scans this data can be analyzed by comparing it to previous scan data to determine the change in strain on the sensor s .

For the above discussed dividing step of the method various methods may be employed. For example a window function may multiply the raw data in order to divide the raw data into segments. The window function can be expressed as w t where t is the time period selected for each data segment. An alternative method of dividing the raw data stream may be the use of wavelet transformation which is discussed further below.

The size of the preferred time period selected which relates directly to the number of data points in each segment is dependent upon several factors. In general the larger time period selected the better frequency resolution obtained but an increased processing time. However the smaller the time period selected the more quickly the data can be processed but decreased frequency resolution. In addition the selection will depend upon the number of gratings per fiber and the distance between the gratings. As the grating placement is further apart on the fiber the less data is required to identify the locations accurately and therefore a smaller time period may be selected . In a preferred embodiment of the invention a time period is selected that provides between 512 points of data and 2048 points per data segment for gratings being separated on a fiber from 0.5 to 2 inches on a 20 ft fiber. In a most preferred embodiment of the invention when gratings are separated by 0.5 inches along a fiber a time period is selected that provides 2048 points of data per segment.

For the above discussed transforming step many types of transformation methods may be employed. In general a transformation method should be able to transform the data segments quickly from time wavelength data into frequency position data. Preferably the transformation method will treat time and wavelength data as analogous and frequency and position data as analogous. Some preferred transformation methods include Short Time Fourier Transform STFT Wavelet Transformation WT a Goertzel algorithm and Wigner Ville Distribution WVD .

STFT is a Fourier related transform used to determine the frequency and phase information of small signal segments as they changes over time. A preferred example of an STFT algorithm that may be employed in the present invention is STFT 1 

WT is inherently a time frequency analysis of a signal. Therefore it is similar to STFT analysis in that it uses finite duration basis functions to estimate the transform but different in that the length of the support is a function of frequency. Because WT inherently divides the raw data being processed into segments when WT is employed in the present invention it provides both the dividing means and transforming means of the method. An example of a WT that may be adapted for use in the present invention is 1 2 

where x u is the signal to be transformed is the wavelet and b and s are the time shift and scale respectively.

While a general FFT algorithm computes evenly across the spectrum along a fiber a Geortzel algorithm is designed to look at only specific frequencies. Generally the Goertzel algorithm was designed to detect certain tones for example in a dual tone multi frequency decoder.

WVD is a time frequency distribution concept which also may be employed in the present invention. An example of a WVD that may be adapted for use in the present invention is 2 2 3 

The following is an example of the present invention employing an STFT transformation method. To reduce the numerical computation required a series of low ordered FFTs sequencing through the wavelength varying FBG signal is presented for interrogating these FBGs. Simply described the function to be transformed is multiplied by a window function which is nonzero for only a short period of time. The Fourier Transform of the resulting signal is taken as the window moves along the time axis resulting in a function representing frequency and magnitude of the signal over time. The continuous time STFT can be expressed as STFT 4 

where the time t variable used relating to FBG signals is analogous to the variable wavelength and likewise frequency is analogous to position . Position represents grating location along a fiber. Here w t is the window function and x t is the FBG signal to be transformed while X is the resulting Fourier Transform of x t w t .

A center of mass calculation is performed at each grating position index of interest with respect to time to achieve the final which is proportional to strain. show results using this method of a steel cantilever beam without and with an applied load respectively.

By implementing the discrete time variation of the above equation a maximum repetition rate of 24 was achieved. The noise was within 5 e and match to within 3 5 of conventional strain gage measurements which were co located. Using this method an FBG sensor refresh rate of 24 scans per second has been achieved.

What is described are specific examples of many possible variations on the same is invention and are not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above.

