---

title: Haptic interface for touch screen embodiments
abstract: A haptic feedback touch control used to provide input to a computer. A touch input device includes a planar touch surface that provides position information to a computer based on a location of user contact. The computer can position a cursor in a displayed graphical environment based at least in part on the position information, or perform a different function. At least one actuator is also coupled to the touch input device and outputs a force to provide a haptic sensation to the user. The actuator can move the touchpad laterally, or a separate surface member can be actuated. A flat E-core actuator, piezoelectric actuator, or other types of actuators can be used to provide forces. The touch input device can include multiple different regions to control different computer functions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08188981&OS=08188981&RS=08188981
owner: Immersion Corporation
number: 08188981
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071030
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 919 798 filed Aug. 17 2004 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 917 263 filed Jul. 26 2001 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 487 737 entitled Haptic Feedback for Touchpads and Other Touch Controls filed Jan. 19 2000. The 09 917 263 application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 274 444 filed Mar. 9 2001 entitled Haptic Interface for Laptop Computers and Other Portable Devices. 

The subject matter relates generally to the interfacing with computer and mechanical devices by a user and more particularly to devices used to interface with computer systems and electronic devices and which provide haptic feedback to the user.

Humans interface with electronic and mechanical devices in a variety of applications and the need for a more natural easy to use and informative interface is a constant concern. In the context herein humans interface with computer devices for a variety of applications. One such application is interacting with computer generated environments such as games simulations and application programs. Computer input devices such as mice and trackballs are often used to control a cursor within a graphical environment and provide input in these applications.

In some interface devices force feedback or tactile feedback is also provided to the user collectively known herein as haptic feedback. For example haptic versions of joysticks mice gamepads steering wheels or other types of devices can output forces to the user based on events or interactions occurring within the graphical environment such as in a game or other application program.

In portable computer or electronic devices such as laptop computers mice typically too large a workspace to be practical. As a result more compact devices such as trackballs are often used. Currently a more popular device for portable computers are touchpads which are small rectangular planar pads provided near the keyboard of the computer. The touchpad senses the location of a pointing object by any of a variety of sensing technologies such as capacitive sensors or pressure sensors that detect pressure applied to the touchpad. The user contacts the touchpad most commonly with a fingertip and moves his or her finger on the pad to move a cursor displayed in the graphical environment. In other embodiments the user can operate a stylus in conjunction with the touchpad by pressing the stylus tip on the touchpad and moving the stylus.

One problem with existing touchpads is that there is no haptic feedback provided to the user. The user of a touchpad is therefore not able to experience haptic sensations that assist and inform the user of targeting and other control tasks within the graphical environment. The touchpads of the prior art also cannot take advantage of existing haptic enabled software run on the portable computer.

The subject matter is directed to a haptic feedback planar touch control used to provide input to a computer system. The control can be a touchpad provided on a portable computer or can be a touch screen found on a variety of devices. The haptic sensations output on the touch control enhance interactions and manipulations in a displayed graphical environment or when controlling an electronic device.

More specifically a haptic feedback touch control for inputting signals to a computer and for outputting forces to a user of the touch control. The control includes a touch input device including an approximately planar touch surface operative to input a position signal to a processor of said computer based on a location of user contact on the touch surface. One or more actuators are coupled to the touch input device which can output a force to laterally move the touch input device approximately parallel to its surface to provide a haptic sensation to the user contacting it. The computer can position a cursor in a graphical environment displayed on a display device based on the position signal. The touch input device can be a separate touchpad or included as a touch screen. The user can contact the touch surface with a finger or other object such as a stylus. Two actuators can move the touch input device in orthogonal directions parallel to the touch surface.

In another embodiment a haptic feedback touch control for inputting signals to a computer and for outputting forces to a user includes a touch input device including an approximately planar touch surface which inputs a position signal to a computer processor a surface member located adjacent to the touch input device where the user can contact the surface when pressing the touch input device and an actuator coupled to the surface member. The actuator outputs a force on the surface member to provide a haptic sensation to the user. The surface member can be translated laterally approximately in a plane parallel to the surface of the touch input device for example the surface member can be positioned over the touch input device and approximately coextensive with the surface of the touch input device. Or the surface member can be positioned to a side of the touch input device such that the user touches the touch input device with one finger and touches the surface member with a different finger or palm for example the surface member can be positioned over a physical button that is located adjacent to said touch input device. Contact or inertial forces can be output on the surface member.

In another aspect an actuator providing a linear force output includes a ferromagnetic piece including a center pole located between two side poles a coil wrapped around the center pole a magnet adjacent to the center pole and side poles and a backing plate coupled to the magnet where the backing plate and magnet move with respect to the ferromagnetic piece when current is flowed in the coil. Rollers can be positioned between the ferromagnetic piece and backing plate to allow the motion. A flexure can reduce the relative motion between plate and ferromagnetic piece in undesired directions and provide a spring centering force.

In another aspect a haptic touch device includes a piezoelectric transducer coupled to a ground and including a metal diaphragm coupled to a ceramic element and a planar sensing element such as a touchpad. A spacer is provided between the piezoelectric transducer and the planar sensing element the metal diaphragm contacting the spacer. A spring element provides a spring restoring force to the planar sensing element.

In another aspect a method for providing haptic feedback to a touch input device includes receiving a position signal from the touch input device indicating a contact location on a surface where said user is pressing and determining in which of a plurality of regions on the surface the contact location is positioned. Force information is provided to cause an actuator to output a force to the user the force associated with the user moving an object on or over the surface of the touch input device. A function can be associated with the region in which the contact location is positioned such as rate control function of a value or moving a displayed cursor. The can be output when the user moves the object over a boundary to the contacted region from a different region of the touch input device.

An embodiment advantageously provides haptic feedback to a planar touch control device of a computer such as a touchpad or touch screen. The haptic feedback can assist and inform the user of interactions and events within a graphical user interface or other environment and ease cursor targeting tasks. Furthermore this allows portable computer devices having such touch controls to take advantage of existing haptic feedback enabled software. The haptic touch devices disclosed herein are also inexpensive compact and consume low power allowing them to be easily incorporated into a wide variety of portable and desktop computers and electronic devices.

These and other advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the following specification and a study of the several figures of the drawing.

Computer may include the various input and output devices as shown including a display device for outputting graphical images to the user a keyboard for providing character or toggle input from the user to the computer and a touchpad . Display device can be any of a variety of types of display devices flat panel displays are most common on portable computers. Display device can display a graphical environment based on application programs and or operating systems that are running on the CPU of computer such as a graphical user interface GUI that can include a cursor that can be moved by user input as well as windows icons and other graphical objects well known in GUI environments. Other graphical environments or images may also be displayed e.g. a game movie or other presentation spreadsheet or other application program etc.

Other devices may also be incorporated or coupled to the computer such as storage devices hard disk drive DVD ROM drive etc. network server or clients game controllers etc. In alternate embodiments the computer can take a wide variety of forms including computing devices that rest on a tabletop or other surface stand up arcade game machines other portable devices or devices worn on the person handled or used with a single hand of the user etc. For example host computer can be a video game console personal computer workstation a television set top box or a network computer or other computing or electronic device.

Touchpad device preferably appears externally to be similar to the touchpads of the prior art. In many embodiments disclosed herein such a pad includes a planar rectangular smooth surface that can be positioned below the keyboard on the housing of the computer as shown or may be positioned at other areas of the housing. When the user operates the computer the user may conveniently place a fingertip or other object on the touchpad and move the fingertip to correspondingly move cursor in the graphical environment .

In operation the touchpad inputs coordinate data to the main microprocessor s of the computer based on the sensed location of an object on or near the touchpad. As with many touchpads of the prior art touchpad can be capacitive resistive or use a different type of sensing. Some existing touchpad embodiments are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 521 336 and 5 943 044. Capacitive touchpads typically sense the location of an object on or near the surface of the touchpad based on capacitive coupling between capacitors in the touchpad and the object. Resistive touchpads are typically pressure sensitive detecting the pressure of a finger stylus or other object against the pad where the pressure causes conductive layers traces switches etc. in the pad to electrically connect. Some resistive or other types of touchpads can detect the amount of pressure applied by the user and can use the degree of pressure for proportional or variable input to the computer . Resistive touchpads typically are at least partially deformable so that when a pressure is applied to a particular location the conductors at that location are brought into electrical contact. Such deformability can be useful since it can potentially amplify the magnitude of output forces such as pulses or vibrations on the touchpad. Forces can be amplified if a tuned compliant suspension is provided between an actuator and the object that is moved as described in provisional application No. 60 157 206. Capacitive touchpads and other types of touchpads that do not require significant contact pressure may be better suited in some embodiments since excessive pressure on the touchpad may in some cases interfere with the motion of the touchpad for haptic feedback. Other types of sensing technologies can also be used in the touchpad. Herein the term touchpad preferably includes the surface of the touchpad as well as any sensing apparatus included in the touchpad unit.

Touchpad can operate similarly to existing touchpads where the speed of the fingertip on the touchpad correlates to the distance that the cursor is moved in the graphical environment. For example if the user moves his or her finger quickly across the pad the cursor is moved a greater distance than if the user moves the fingertip more slowly. If the user s finger reaches the edge of the touchpad before the cursor reaches a desired destination in that direction then the user can simply move his or her finger off the touchpad reposition the finger away from the edge and continue moving the cursor. This is an indexing function similar to lifting a mouse off a surface to change the offset between mouse position and cursor. Furthermore many touchpads can be provided with particular regions that are each assigned to particular functions that can be unrelated to cursor positioning. Such an embodiment is described in greater detail below with respect to . In some embodiments the touchpad may also allow a user to tap the touchpad rapidly touch and remove the object from the pad in a particular location to provide a command. For example the user can tap or double tap the pad with a finger while the controlled cursor is over an icon to select that icon.

In an embodiment the touchpad is provided with the ability to output haptic feedback such as tactile sensations to the user who is physically contacting the touchpad . Various embodiments detailing the structure of the haptic feedback touchpad are described in greater detail below. Some embodiments may move a device housing or separate moving surface not the touchpad itself.

Using one or more actuators coupled to the touchpad or an associated surface a variety of haptic sensations can be output to the user who is contacting the touchpad or housing or separate surface . For example jolts vibrations varying or constant amplitude and textures can be output. Forces output to the user can be at least in part based on the location of the finger on the pad or the state of a controlled object in the graphical environment of the host computer and or independent of finger position or object state. Such forces output to the user are considered computer controlled since a microprocessor or other electronic controller is controlling the magnitude and or direction of the force output of the actuator s using electronic signals.

In other embodiments the touchpad can be provided in a separate housing that is connected to a port of the computer via a cable or via wireless transmission and which receives force information from and sends position information to the computer . For example Universal Serial Bus USB Firewire or a standard serial bus can connect such a touchpad to the computer .

One or more buttons can also be provided on the housing of the computer to be used in conjunction with the touchpad . The user s hands have easy access to the buttons each of which may be pressed by the user to provide a distinct input signal to the host computer . Typically each button corresponds to a similar button found on a mouse input device so that a left button can be used to select a graphical object click or double click a right button can bring up a context menu etc. In some embodiments one or more of the buttons can be provided with tactile feedback as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 184 868 and application Ser. No. 09 467 309. Other features of these disclosures may also be used.

Furthermore in some embodiments one or more moveable portions of the housing of the computer device can be included which is contacted by the user when the user operates the touchpad and which can provide haptic feedback. Having a moveable portion of a housing for haptic feedback is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 184 868 and 6 088 019. In some embodiments both the housing can provide haptic feedback e.g. through the use of an eccentric rotating mass on a motor coupled to the housing and the touchpad can provide separate haptic feedback. This can allow the host to control two different tactile sensations simultaneously to the user for example a vibration of a low frequency can be conveyed through the housing to the user and a higher frequency vibration can be conveyed to the user through the touchpad . Each other button or other control provided with haptic feedback can also provide tactile feedback independently from the other controls.

The host application program s and or operating system preferably displays graphical images of the environment on display device . The software and environment running on the host computer may be of a wide variety. For example the host application program can be a word processor spreadsheet movie video or computer game drawing program operating system graphical user interface simulation Web page or browser that implements HTML or VRML instructions scientific analysis program virtual reality training program or application or other application program that utilizes input from the touchpad and outputs force feedback commands to the touchpad . For example many games and other application programs include force feedback functionality and may communicate with the touchpad using a standard protocol drivers such as I Force FEELit or Touchsense available from Immersion Corporation of San Jose Calif.

The touchpad can include circuitry necessary to report control signals to the microprocessor of the host computer and to process command signals from the host s microprocessor. For example appropriate sensors and related circuitry are used to report the position of the user s finger on the touchpad . The touchpad device also includes circuitry that receives signals from the host and outputs tactile sensations in accordance with the host signals using one or more actuators. Some touchpads may be integrated with a printed circuit board PCB that includes some of these components and circuitry. In some embodiments a separate local microprocessor can be provided for the touchpad to both report touchpad sensor data to the host and or to carry out force commands received from the host such commands including for example the type of haptic sensation and parameters describing the commanded haptic sensation. Alternatively the touchpad microprocessor can simply pass streamed data from the main processor to the actuators. The term force information can include both commands parameters and or streamed data. The touchpad microprocessor can implement haptic sensations independently after receiving a host command by controlling the touchpad actuators or the host processor can maintain a greater degree of control over the haptic sensations by controlling the actuators more directly. In other embodiments logic circuitry such as state machines provided for the touchpad can handle haptic sensations as directed by the host main processor. Architectures and control methods that can be used for reading sensor signals and providing haptic feedback for a device are described in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 734 373 and copending application Ser. Nos. 09 669 029 09 565 207 09 376 649 and 09 687 744.

In existing touchpad embodiments such as those manufactured by Synaptics Corp. particular characteristics and features are provided. The standard surface material for a touchpad is textured Mylar and typically any non conductive object can be used on the touchpad surface and be detected though textured surfaces are better when a user s finger is used to point. The touchpad can also sense through thin overlays. There is typically space available for the additional of haptic feedback components for example on a 40.times.60 touchpad over half of the board can be available for haptic circuitry.

Many touchpads include a palm check feature which allows the laptop to sense whether the user is contacting the touchpad with a finger or with a palm or other part of the hand. Since the user may only be resting his or her palm and not be intending to provide input the palm check feature would ignore input that is determined to be provided by a user s palm. Basically the palm check feature computes the contact area made by the conductive object finger palm arm etc. . If the contact area exceeds a certain threshold the contact is rejected. This feature can be turned off in many embodiments.

In one application the controlled apparatus can be a computer system such as Web TV from Microsoft Corp. or other computing device which displays a graphical user interface and or web pages accessed over a network such as the Internet. The user can control the direction of the cursor by moving a finger or other object on the touchpad . The cursor can be used to select and or manipulate icons windows menu items graphical buttons slider bars scroll bars or other graphical objects in a graphical user interface or desktop interface. The cursor can also be used to select and or manipulate graphical objects on a web page such as links images buttons etc. Other force sensations associated with graphical objects are described below with reference to .

In one embodiment of a device a display screen positioned adjacent a housing may cover a large portion of the surface of the computer device . Screen is preferably a flat panel display as is well known to those skilled in the art and can display text images animations etc. in some embodiments screen is as functional as any personal computer screen. Display screen can be a touch screen that includes sensors which allow the user to input information to the computer device by physically contacting the screen i.e. it is another form of planar touch device similar to the touchpad of . For example a transparent sensor film can be overlaid on the screen where the film can detect pressure from an object contacting the film. The sensor devices for implementing touch screens are well known to those skilled in the art.

The user can select graphically displayed buttons or other graphical objects by pressing a finger or a stylus to the screen at the exact location where the graphical object is displayed. Furthermore some embodiments allow the user to draw or write on the screen by displaying graphical ink images at locations where the user has pressed a tip of a stylus such as stylus or a finger or other object. Handwritten characters can be recognized by software running on the device microprocessor as commands data or other input. In other embodiments the user can provide input additionally or alternatively through voice recognition where a microphone on the device inputs the user s voice which is translated to appropriate commands or data by software running on the device. Physical buttons can also be included in the housing of the device to provide particular commands to the device when the buttons are pressed. Many PDA s are characterized by the lack of a standard keyboard for character input from the user rather an alternative input mode is used such as using a stylus to draw characters on the screen voice recognition etc. However some PDA s also include a fully functional keyboard as well as a touch screen where the keyboard is typically much smaller than a standard sized keyboard. In yet other embodiments standard size laptop computers with standard keyboards may include flat panel touch input display screens and such screens similar to screen of can be provided with haptic feedback.

In some embodiments the touch screen may provide haptic feedback to the user similarly to the touchpad described in previous embodiments. One or more actuators can be coupled to the touchscreen or movable surfaces near the touchscreen in a manner similar to the embodiments described below. The user can experience the haptic feedback through a finger or a held object such as a stylus that is contacting the screen .

The touch screen can be coupled to the housing of the device by one or more spring or compliant elements such as helical springs leaf springs flexures or compliant material foam rubber etc. to allow motion of the screen approximately along the z axis thereby providing haptic feedback. The screen can also be provided with flexures or other couplings allowing side to side x and or y motion similar to the appropriate embodiments described below.

Host computer system preferably includes a host microprocessor a clock a display screen and an audio output device . The host computer also includes other well known components such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and input output I O electronics not shown .

As described above host computer can be a personal computer such as a laptop computer and may operate under any well known operating system. Alternatively host computer system can be one of a variety of home video game console systems commonly connected to a television set or other display such as systems available from Nintendo Sega Sony or Microsoft. In other embodiments host computer system can be an appliance set top box or other electronic device to which the user can provide input. Computer can also be a portable hand held computer such as a PDA or can be a vehicle computer stand up arcade game workstation etc.

Host computer preferably implements a host application program with which a user is interacting via interface device which includes haptic feedback functionality. For example the host application program can be a video game word processor or spreadsheet Web page or browser that implements HTML or VRML instructions scientific analysis program movie player virtual reality training program or application or other application program that may utilize input of mouse and which outputs haptic feedback commands to the device . Herein for simplicity operating systems such as Windows MS DOS MacOS Unix Palm OS etc. are also referred to as application programs. Herein computer may be referred as providing a graphical environment which can be a graphical user interface game simulation or other visual environment and can include graphical objects such as icons windows game objects etc. Suitable software drivers which interface such software with computer input output I O devices are available from Immersion Corporation of San Jose Calif.

Display device can be included in host computer and can be a standard display screen LCD CRT plasma flat panel etc. 3 D goggles or any other visual output device. Audio output device such as speakers is preferably coupled to host microprocessor to provide sound output to user. Other types of peripherals can also be coupled to host processor such as storage devices hard disk drive CD ROM drive floppy disk drive etc. other input and output devices.

Interface device is coupled to the computer by a bus which communicates signals between device and computer and may also in some embodiments provide power to the device . In other embodiments signals can be sent between device and computer by wireless transmission reception. In some embodiments the power for the actuator can be supplemented or solely supplied by a power storage device provided on the device such as a capacitor or one or more batteries. The bus is preferably bidirectional to send signals in either direction between host and device . Bus can be a serial interface bus such as an RS232 serial interface RS 422 Universal Serial Bus USB MIDI or other protocols well known to those skilled in the art or a parallel bus or wireless link.

Device may be a separate device from host with its own housing or may be integrated with the host computer housing as in the laptop computer of . Device can include or be associated with a dedicated local microprocessor . Processor is considered local to device where local herein refers to processor being a separate microprocessor from any host processors in host computer system . Local also may refer to processor being dedicated to haptic feedback and sensor I O of device . Microprocessor can be provided with software instructions e.g. firmware to wait for commands or requests from computer host decode the command or request and handle control input and output signals according to the command or request. In addition processor can operate independently of host computer by reading sensor signals and calculating appropriate forces from those sensor signals time signals and stored or relayed instructions selected in accordance with a host command. Suitable microprocessors for use as local microprocessor include lower end microprocessors as well as more sophisticated force feedback processors such as the Immersion Touchsense Processor. Microprocessor can include one microprocessor chip multiple processors and or co processor chips and or digital signal processor DSP capability.

Microprocessor can receive signals from sensor and provide signals to actuator in accordance with instructions provided by host computer over bus . For example in a local control embodiment host computer provides high level supervisory commands to microprocessor over bus such as a command identifier and one or more parameters characterizing the tactile sensation and microprocessor decodes the commands and manages low level force control loops to sensors and the actuator in accordance with the high level commands and independently of the host computer . This operation is described in greater detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 739 811 and 5 734 373. In the host control loop force commands are output from the host computer to microprocessor and instruct the microprocessor to output a force or force sensation having specified characteristics. The local microprocessor reports data to the host computer such as locative data that describes the position of the device in one or more provided degrees of freedom. The data can also describe the states of buttons switches etc. The host computer uses the locative data to update executed programs. In the local control loop actuator signals are provided from the microprocessor to an actuator and sensor signals are provided from the sensor and other input devices to the microprocessor . Herein the term tactile sensation refers to either a single force or a sequence of forces output by the actuator which provide a sensation to the user. For example vibrations a single jolt or a texture sensation are all considered tactile sensations. The microprocessor can process inputted sensor signals to determine appropriate output actuator signals by following stored instructions. The microprocessor may use sensor signals in the local determination of forces to be output on the user object as well as reporting locative data derived from the sensor signals to the host computer.

In yet other embodiments other hardware instead of microprocessor can be provided locally to device to provide functionality similar to microprocessor . For example a hardware state machine incorporating fixed logic can be used to provide signals to the actuator and receive sensor signals from sensors and to output tactile signals.

In a different host controlled embodiment host computer can provide low level force commands over bus which are directly transmitted to the actuator via microprocessor or other circuitry if there is no microprocessor . Host computer thus directly controls and processes all signals to and from the device e.g. the host computer directly controls the forces output by actuator and directly receives sensor signals from sensor and input devices . Other embodiments may employ a hybrid organization where some types of forces e.g. closed loop effects are controlled purely by the local microprocessor while other types of effects e.g. open loop effects may be controlled by the host.

Local memory such as RAM and or ROM is preferably coupled to microprocessor in device to store instructions for microprocessor and store temporary and other data. In addition a local clock can be coupled to the microprocessor to provide timing data.

Sensors sense the position or motion e.g. an object on a touchpad in desired degrees of freedom and provides signals to microprocessor or host including information representative of the position or motion. Sensors suitable for detecting motion include capacitive or resistive sensors in a touchpad contact sensors in a touchscreen etc. Other types of sensors can also be used. Optional sensor interface can be used to convert sensor signals to signals that can be interpreted by the microprocessor and or host computer system .

Actuator s transmits forces to the housing manipulandum buttons or other portion of the device in response to signals received from microprocessor and or host computer . Device preferably includes one or more actuators which are operative to produce forces on the device or a component thereof and haptic sensations to the user. The actuator s are computer controlled e.g. the force output from the actuators is ultimately controlled by signals originating from a controller such as a microprocessor ASIC etc. Many types of actuators can be used including rotary DC motors voice coil actuators moving magnet actuators E core actuators pneumatic hydraulic actuators solenoids speaker voice coils piezoelectric actuators passive actuators brakes etc. Some preferred actuator types are described below. Actuator interface can be optionally connected between actuator and microprocessor to convert signals from microprocessor into signals appropriate to drive actuator . Interface can include power amplifiers switches digital to analog controllers DACs analog to digital controllers ADCs and other components as is well known to those skilled in the art.

In some of the implementations herein the actuator has the ability to apply short duration force sensation on the housing or manipulandum of the device or via moving an inertial mass. This short duration force sensation can be described as a pulse. The pulse can be directed substantially along a particular direction in some embodiments. In some embodiments the magnitude of the pulse can be controlled the sense of the pulse can be controlled either positive or negative biased a periodic force sensation can be applied and can have a magnitude and a frequency e.g. the periodic sensation can be selectable among a sine wave square wave saw toothed up wave saw toothed down and triangle wave an envelope can be applied to the period signal allowing for variation in magnitude over time. The wave forms can be streamed from the host to the device as described in copending application Ser. No. 09 687 744 or can be conveyed through high level commands that include parameters such as magnitude frequency and duration.

Other input devices can be included in device and send input signals to microprocessor or to host when manipulated by the user. Such input devices include buttons dials switches scroll wheels knobs or other controls or mechanisms. Power supply can optionally be included in device coupled to actuator interface and or actuator to provide electrical power to the actuator. Alternatively power can be drawn from a power supply separate from device or power can be received across bus . Also received power can be stored and regulated by device and or host and thus used when needed to drive actuator or used in a supplementary fashion.

The interface device can be any of a variety of types some embodiments are described further below. The touchpads or touchscreen described herein can be provided on a variety of types of devices such as gamepads joysticks steering wheels touchpads spherical controllers finger pads knobs track balls remote control device cell phone personal digital assistant etc.

The specification presents a variety of embodiments in which haptic feedback is provided to a user of a laptop computer or other portable computing device and or to the user of any computing device having a touchpad or similar input device.

Some embodiments are based on displacing the skin of a user s finger when it is in contact with a touchpad. These embodiments deliver high fidelity sensations while offering a good correlation between input and output right at the user s fingertip. Actuator and linkage solutions are described to drive any of the translation embodiments. Other embodiments are based on the stimulation of palm surfaces of the user that are normally in contact with the laptop computer . These surfaces can provide haptic sensations based on inertially coupled forces or translation of the palm surfaces. Translations of surfaces in plane with the upper surface of the touchpad or laptop i.e. in the X and or Y axes are as effective at conveying haptic information as vibrations or displacements in the Z axis those normal to the touchpad or laptop upper surface . This can be important when the volumetric constraints of a laptop are considered.

In many of the embodiments described herein it is also advantageous that contact of the user is detected by a touch input device. Since haptic feedback need only be output when the user is contacting the touch device this detection allows haptic feedback to be stopped actuators turned off when no objects are contacting the touch input device. This feature can conserve battery power for portable devices. If a local touch device microprocessor or similar circuitry is being used in the computer such a microprocessor can turn off actuator output when no user contact is sensed thus alleviating the host processor of additional computational burden until touch is again detected when the actuator output is resumed.

In many preferred embodiments haptics are added to a laptop computer or other device in a way that does not force the user to relearn how to control the laptop or force the manufacturer to stretch design and manufacturing too far from existing designs to provide the haptic content. For example in laptop embodiments as the user moves his or her finger across the touchpad a cursor displayed on the laptop screen is correspondingly moved. Haptic effects can be output on the touchpad or other laptop component contacted by the user when the cursor interacts with a graphical object or area when an event occurs etc. In other applications haptic effects can be output when events or interactions occur in a game or other application running on the laptop.

Other embodiments and descriptions of touchpads devices applications and other component is suitable for use are described in copending patent application Ser. No. 09 487 737 filed Jan. 19 2000. Many types of actuators sensors linkages amplification transmissions etc. can be used.

A touchpad surface as manufactured currently typically is coupled to a printed circuit board PCB that includes necessary electronics and standard connections for connecting and operating the touchpad in a laptop. Thus when forces are applied to the touchpad they are also applied to the PCB that is often directly coupled to the touchpad e.g. underneath the touchpad.

The embodiments herein are designed with particular guidelines and characteristics. For example the particular haptic experiences that feel compelling in a certain embodiment the location where the tactile content is focused or located physically the spatial correlation of the haptic feedback with the pointing of the user s finger on the touchpad e.g. the feedback can be right under the finger or originate somewhere in the case housing of the laptop the required force strength and power for compelling feedback the way the user interacts with the device and effect on quality and content of the feedback angle of finger contact etc and which actuators and mechanisms that can fit into the laptop form factor housing are most desirable.

Preferably existing haptic feedback software and drivers can be used with the embodiments described herein such as TouchSense software from Immersion Corp. A standardized module such as a particular touchpad that works for many different types of products is desirable such as PDAs laptops cell phones and remote controls.

The focus of these inventive embodiments is primarily on tactile feedback implementations not kinesthetic force feedback embodiments. As described herein there are two basic classes of tactile feedback as applied inertial haptic feedback and moving contact haptic feedback. Inertial feedback is generated using inertially coupled vibrations and is based on moving an inertial mass that is coupled to the housing user through a compliant flexure where the mass motions cause inertial vibrations in a surface contacted by the user. Moving contact feedback relates to directly moving a surface or member with respect to an earth ground against the user and usually is generated by creating small displacements of the user s skin.

The distinction between inertial and moving contact feedback can be made in terms of the actual mechanism used to provide information to the user. Both inertial and tactile stimulation cause displacement of the hand or finger tissue the inertial feedback is coupled through some enclosure by the transmissibility of that enclosure and the compliance of whatever holds the enclosure e.g. a mouse pad plus the user s hand for an inertial feedback mouse . Moving contact feedback refers to a mechanism that is more direct in how it stimulates the user s tissue. Examples would be tactile dots or surfaces that shear the skin of the finger to cause sensation by locally deforming the finger or palm tissue. This distinction is made for the purposes of classifying two types of embodiments described below inertial and surface translation.

A novel actuator referred to as Flat E herein is described below and can be used in all of the embodiments herein and represents a class of very low profile power efficient high performance planar actuators. A Flat E actuator can achieve acceptable performance levels and approach the limited volume and form factor required for laptop and other device applications.

These embodiments move an inertial mass to cause inertial haptic feedback to the user which is typically transmitted through an enclosure or mechanism such as a housing or other surface. In many cases inertial mass does not impact any surfaces in its travel although such impacts can alternatively be used to provide additional haptic effects.

Actuator is coupled to the flexure . The housing of the actuator is coupled to a receptacle portion of the flexure which houses the actuator as shown. A rotating shaft of the actuator is coupled to the flexure in a bore of the flexure and is rigidly coupled to a central rotating member . The rotating shaft of the actuator is rotated about an axis A which also rotates member about axis A. Rotating member is coupled to a first portion of an angled member by a flex joint . The flex joint preferably is made very thin in the dimension it is to flex so that the flex joint will bend when the rotating portion moves the first portion approximately linearly. The first portion is coupled to the grounded portion of the flexure by a flex joint and the first portion is coupled to a second portion of the angled member by flex joint . The second portion in turn is coupled at its other end to the receptacle portion of the flexure by a flex joint .

The angled member that includes first portion and second portion moves linearly along the x axis as shown by arrow . In actuality the portions and move only approximately linearly. When the flexure is in its origin position rest position the portions and are preferably angled as shown with respect to their lengthwise axes. This allows the rotating member to push or pull the angled member along either direction as shown by arrow .

The actuator is operated in only a fraction of its rotational range when driving the rotating member in two directions allowing high bandwidth operation and high frequencies of pulses or vibrations to be output. A flex joint is provided in the flexure portion between the receptacle portion and the grounded portion . The flex joint allows the receptacle portion as well as the actuator rotating member and second portion to move approximately linearly in the z axis in response to motion of the portions and . A flex joint is provided in the first portion of the angled member to allow the flexing about flex joint in the z direction to more easily occur.

By quickly changing the rotation direction of the actuator shaft the actuator receptacle can be made to oscillate along the z axis and create a vibration on the housing with the actuator acting as an inertial mass. Preferably enough space is provided above and below the actuator to allow its range of motion without impacting any surfaces or portions of the housing. In addition the flex joints included in flexure such as flex joint act as spring members to provide a restoring force toward the origin position rest position of the actuator and receptacle portion . In some embodiments the stops can be included in the flexure to limit the motion of the receptacle portion and actuator .

Other embodiments can provide other types of actuator assemblies to provide inertial sensations such as a flexure that moves a separate inertial mass instead of the actuator itself. Or an eccentric mass coupled to a rotating shaft of an actuator can be oscillated to provide rotational inertial tactile sensations to the housing. The eccentric mass can be unidirectionally driven or bidirectionally driven. Other types of actuator assemblies may also be used as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 184 868 such as a linear voice coil actuator solenoid moving magnet actuator etc.

In one embodiment an actuator assembly such as described above may be coupled to any of various locations of a laptop housing or other device housing and used to vibrate parts of the housing relying on the transmission of vibrations through the product housing by the remotely mounted actuator module. The actuator assembly can be attached to different areas of the laptop housing or components to provide inertial haptic feedback when the inertial mass is oscillated.

The experience of the user may vary depending on the precise location of the actuator assembly on the laptop and with different tactile effects that are output. Locations for the coupling of the actuator assembly include the housing bottom side or front a surface engaged by the user s palm when operating the device an area adjacent to the touchpad or touchscreen or coupled to the touchpad or touchscreen. An effective location may be the touchpad itself e.g. coupling the actuator assembly to the bottom of the touchpad . In some embodiments if the touchpad is rectangular more compliance may be achieved along the long axis of the touchpad.

In general haptic content is received by the user over a limited frequency range by attaching the actuator assembly to several locations on the laptop. Some locations or specific surfaces of the laptop or other device may act merely as sounding boards turning mechanical vibrations into more sound than tactile signal. Performance can depend on the compliance of the surface and actuator mounting. In some embodiments higher force levels may be required to generate vibrations from the housing that will propagate effectively to the touchpad or touchscreen.

In many cases the output of several types of haptic effects can be faint and muddy to the user and effects having predominantly higher frequencies may be more perceptible. One effective tactile effect for this embodiment is a relatively high frequency ringing effect. Synpathetic vibrations in the laptop case and the touchpad may amplify these vibrations. An actuator designed to resonate at a certain ideal frequency may be used to present a wide spectrum of frequencies by amplitude modulation techniques. For example a compelling 25 Hz square wave can be generated by modulating a 250 Hz natural frequency generated by a tuned resonant actuator such as a large piezo ceramic resonator see . Such modulation schemes may rely on the actuator being tuned to the environment it lives in and the object it must drive. Some type of vibration isolation system can be used in some embodiments to keep the energy confined to the haptic module as opposed to allowing the energy to dissipate off into sympathetic modes in other portions of the laptop computer or other device.

In another embodiment a stand alone touchpad device can be used where the touchpad is housed in a separate housing and communicates with the laptop or other device via wires or transmissions. In one embodiment the stand alone touchpad device can be attached to a palm pad or other member with the actuator assembly coupled to the pad. When the inertial mass of the actuator assembly is oscillated the inertial sensations are transmitted through the member to the touchpad i.e. this effectively provides inertial coupling from the actuator assembly to the touchpad surface. A foam layer or other compliant layer can be coupled between the pad and ground to provide compliance and allow the pad and touchpad to move inertially. This embodiment may feel more compelling than the embodiments in which the actuator assembly is mounted to the laptop near or on the built in touchpad possibly due to the compliance of the foam which can allow stronger sensations to be output.

The entire touchpad can be provided with haptic sensations as a single unitary member or in other embodiments individually moving portions of the pad can each be provided with its own haptic feedback actuator and related transmissions so that haptic sensations can be provided for only a particular portion. For example some embodiments may include a touchpad having different portions that may be flexed or otherwise moved with respect to other portions of the touchpad.

In another embodiment the surface around or adjacent to the touchpad is coupled to harmonic vibration source e.g. actuator assembly and vibrates in one or more axes. For example palm rest surfaces may be driven by an inertial actuator assembly housed in the laptop. is a perspective view of one example of an inertially driven palm rest surface. A laptop computer includes a touchpad that functions like a typical touchpad. A palm rest surface is positioned adjacent to the touchpad where the surface can be attached to the laptop housing on a layer of resilient open cell foam or other compliant material. In some embodiments the surface can be textured with divots and or bumps to allow a stronger contact by the user to the surface. An actuator assembly is coupled to the palm rest surface in the embodiment shown the assembly is coupled to the underside of the surface . The assembly can be any of the actuator assemblies described above. For example the actuator assembly can provide z axis oscillations to the palm rest surface .

The user preferably rests a palm and or some fingers on the palm rest surface while the user is using the touchpad with a pointing finger s . Thus the user is able to feel haptic sensations through the palm rest surface while operating the touchpad. Alternatively one hand of the user is used to point and operate the touchpad while the other hand rests on the palm surface and senses haptic feedback. The palm surfaces are implemented as practically unavoidable contact surfaces and consequently a user is not likely to miss very many haptic events while using the touchpad. In some embodiments how hard the user rests the palms on the surface can make a slight difference in perceived magnitude over the useful bandwidth and may be a result of stiffness and mass of the particular device used. The stiffness of the coupling of the palm surface with the housing can be adjusted for a particular feel in different embodiments.

In a related embodiment the actuator assembly can be mounted in different areas. For example the actuator assembly can be attached to the bottom of an extension of a palm rest surface made of textured material mounted on a layer of resilient open cell foam or other compliant material.

In other embodiments the palm surface can be translated in the X and or Y directions similarly to the touchpad translation described below. The inertial actuator assembly could be used to force the translation or a different type of actuator e.g. high actuator authority and fairly high stiffness in the translation mode to avoid unintentional hard stop limiting distortion etc. The translating palm surface can be suitable for a flat actuator so that the assembly can be integrated into the laptop housing flat actuators are described below.

Actuator can function as a harmonic oscillator that runs at a relatively high frequency that transmits sensations to the hand or part of the laptop to which it is attached. Amplitude modulation envelope control may be used to produce a wider haptic spectrum than the single fundamental drum mode. Large diameter piezo drivers are available for example from Kingstate of Taiwan. Differently sized discs can also be used.

To provide the desired haptic sensations a large piezo buzzer should provide large sustainable displacements accelerations of the mass and the carrier frequency the frequency at which it oscillates should be modulated with the haptic signal. Some electronics may be needed to operate this type of actuator. A high voltage supply can be generated from 5 volts. An oscillation circuit e.g. self exciting can drive the element. There can be a gating feature to start and stop the oscillation as well as a proportional control to allow modulation of the amplitude of the output. An all digital implementation may be provided by gating the oscillator on and off.

In operation the piezo transducer moves along the z axis when an oscillating current from signal source is flowed through the diaphragm and the ceramic element . Thus spacer is provided only at the edges of the diaphragm to allow the inner portion of the diaphragm and the ceramic element to move and the ceramic element pushes against the bottom housing causing the diaphragm to push against the spacer which in turn pushes against the touchpad element . This pushes the touchpad element up and the spring elements provide a spring return force on the touchpad so that it will return to its neutral position. When the piezo transducer similarly moves in the opposite direction as directed by the oscillating signal this moves the touchpact element down toward the bottom housing . The touchpad element thus oscillates along the z axis and provides haptic sensations to the user contacting the touchpad element.

In some embodiments the components of the touchpad embodiment can be chosen to provide more effective haptic sensations. For example if the piezo transducer oscillates at close to a natural frequency of the mechanical system including the transducer itself then stronger forces and more effective haptic sensations can be output. The natural frequency of this moving mechanical system can be approximately expressed as the square root of the expression k1 plus k2 divided by m as shown below f square root over k1 k m 

where fn is the natural frequency k1 is the spring constant of the metal diaphragm of the piezo transducer k2 is the spring constant of the spring elements and m is the total mass of the spacer the touchpad and the parts of the suspension attached to the touchpad. This mass as well as the spring constants can be selected to provide a desirable low natural frequency such as about 120 Hz or less which tends to cause effective haptic sensations. The spacer can allow multiple piezo transducers e.g. positioned side by side to be positioned against the bottom housing so that the multiple transducers can be driven in unison for stronger haptic effects or at different times to provide sensations at particular locations of the touchpad element .

One way to provide the drive signal is to provide an initial oscillating carrier signal at or near the natural frequency fn modulate the carrier signal with an effect envelope if applicable e.g. shape the amplitude to a desired configuration to provide a desired frequency or effect and drive an amplifier with the modulated signal which in turn drives the piezo transducer. A sine wave carrier signal as opposed to square wave or other types used in such an embodiment tends to produce quieter haptic effects in the described embodiment of which is often more desirable. Some ways of producing lower frequencies with a high frequency oscillation are described in copending patent application Ser. No. 09 908 184 filed Jul. 17 2001 entitled Providing Enhanced Haptic Feedback Effects. 

In an alternate embodiment the piezoelectric transducer and spacer can be reversed in orientation so that the spacer contacts the bottom housing the diaphragm rests on the spacer the ceramic element is positioned above the diaphragm and the ceramic element directly impacts the touchpad element or a pad coupled to the touchpad member when it is oscillated by the driving signal. In yet other embodiments the ceramic element can be directly coupled to the touchpad element but in general less strong and effective haptic effects are the result.

These embodiments translate a surface that is in contact with the user to provide haptic feedback to the user. The user feels the translating surface in shear with his or her skin creating an immediate sensation. This type of haptic feedback is based on either surface motion in plane without interactions with fixed surfaces or relative motion between adjacent surfaces that are in contact with the users finger or hand. Both translation of a surface in contact with or adjacent to the touchpad module surface as well as displacement of the touchpad surface itself are embodiments described below as well as actuators that may be used for either application . Moving surface embodiments described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 184 868 can also be applied.

Displacing a separate surface member positioned on top of a touchpad module is very effective at providing well correlated feedback. The feedback feels sufficiently synchronized that clear surfaces may be translated above visual displays as in PDAs or touch screens. Translation of other surfaces to the side or otherwise adjacent to the touchpad can also be performed in other embodiments.

The sliding surface can be any of a variety of stiff or substantially stiff materials for example Kapton polyamid flexible printed circuit board material can be used. The extension members can incorporate a stiffener section to prevent buckling. The sliding surface can be a textured surface that provides a friction force to engage the user skin tissue in contact with the surface. A region on the top of the moving surface can include the texture having sufficient surface roughness to provide purchase on the skin without feeling rough to touch. On the underside of the moving surface a low friction coating can be included to promote sliding between surface and touchpad . This underside component can be very thin for example less than 0.010 inches 0.25 mm thick.

The user points to and contacts the moving surface just as if it were the touchpad itself The surface is made thin enough so that the touchpad can detect all the contact of the user to the surface as if the user were touching the location of the touchpad directly underneath the location touched on the surface .

In some embodiments the actuators can be located relatively far from the moving surface e.g. 10 cm and in these cases the stiffer extension members may need to transmit tension and compression with as little friction or out of plane movement as possible. Fiber laminations of glass or carbon can perform this function for example.

In some moving magnet actuator embodiments thin rare earth magnetic pieces can be laminated to the moving surface to act as the moving magnets. A high level of integration can be achieved for example if the moving magnet pieces are on the order of 

In this embodiment a translating surface is positioned over a touchpad similar to the embodiment of . An extension member can protrude in a direction x direction here towards a rotary actuator which is this example is grounded to the laptop housing . The actuator can be a DC rotary motor having a rotatable shaft that is coupled to a coupling linkage that is in turn coupled to the extension member . For example a portion of the linkage from the actuator assembly described above can be used. When the actuator rotates the shaft in either direction the linkage converts the rotation to surface translation in a corresponding direction left or right . For example a displacement of about 1 mm can be achieved. The user feels the surface translation when moving a finger over the surface . Motor rotation can result in very clean high fidelity translation in the X axis. A DC motor design may work in a laptop given spare volume out at the sides or locations in the front of the enclosure or housing. A similar extension linkage and motor can be provided in the y direction to move the surface in that direction. The input of the user is detected on the touchpad through the moving tactile surface.

The thin surface can be trimmed to fit inside the touchpad area with a small border all around. A rectangular extension can be cut out of a larger lamination to provide a fairly rigid strip that is driven with an actuator. This strip should be wide enough to allow the actuator to push on it in operation without the strip buckling.

As in the embodiment of a smooth surface can be provided on the underside of surface that contacts the touchpad to provide a smooth low friction sliding interface with the touchpad plastic covering that the user s finger normally touches. The top side of the moving surface can be made frictional to allow a good user grip e.g. a texture like fine sandpaper. This can provide an excellent contact surface because it provides some mechanical bonding with the finger surface but is not rough enough to feel rough to touch. Other embodiments can use a variety of types of friction surfaces. Other embodiments may also use flatter actuators such as moving magnet actuators or voice coil actuators.

Two strips of plastic or other material can be attached to the bezel surrounding the touchpad i.e the rim of the housing opening for the touchpad and covering the edges of the surface in order to constrain the moving surface and keep it flat against and parallel to the touchpad .

The embodiments of can provide compelling haptic sensations. Adding a surface above the touchpad does not substantially interfere with the sensor operation of the touchpad. A user can concurrently point and receive haptic feedback through motion of this surface relative to the fixed touchpad. The perceived correlation of the imparted feedback with movement is good. It is simple for the user to point and navigate a cursor or other object i.e. provide input to the laptop or other electronic device when touching and moving a finger over the translation surface above the touchpad. In some embodiments the moving surface can be held above not in close contact with the touchpad and so some compression by the user may be required to take the free play out and come into proximity with the sensor array.

When moving a cursor over displayed scroll bars and around on the desktop GUI displayed by the laptop the user feels distinct high fidelity effects that are well correlated spatially with the cursor. The character of the correlation may be different depending on whether the user moves a finger or object in the x or the y axis. The actuator in the shown embodiment moves the surface in the x axis. Consequently moving the cursor up and down over icons the user may feel pops or similar tactile effects as unidirectional if the user does not concentrate on or observe that the motion of the surface is perpendicular to the cursor motion.

Motion of the user s finger in the translated direction the x axis in the example of FIG. tends to be more compelling. For example as the user drags a finger in the x direction to move a cursor from one displayed radio button to the next the surface may lead the user into the next button and can feel like a detent even though very small motions of the surface are being generated. A surface translation force opposing the direction of motion can be effective e.g. if the user is moving left onto an icon a translation force directed to the right feels crisp and natural. If haptic feedback is allowed in only one axis the y axis may be a better choice in some embodiments because there may be more vertically oriented content on a GUI desktop and in applications.

A short distinct pulse can provide excellent transitions when moving the cursor from one object to another such as between graphical buttons. Vibrations can be conveyed to the user in surface translation embodiments by oscillating the actuator driving the surface e.g. with a sine or other periodic wave and thereby oscillating the translating surface in opposite directions.

The user also may naturally tend to take his or her finger off of the touchpad between motions that control the cursor and an inherent spring centering of the motor and linkage can return the moving surface or to a neutral origin position ready for the next interaction. The controlled cursor is not moved while the feedback apparatus has moved back to the neutral origin position since only the surface above the touchpad moves and does not provide input to the computer through the touchpad like a user s finger. This subtlety is more readily provided in this embodiment than if the touchpad surface itself were translated as in other embodiments described herein.

Motion in a particular direction allows the surface translation embodiments to act in some embodiments as a relative pointing device with local pseudo kinesthetic feedback. Tactile feedback is still the primary type of haptic feedback provided in such an embodiment but the small displacements of the surface can be dramatically perceived as directed spring forces acting in such a way that they feel like detent slopes that force the user s finger in a direction even though they are just pops.

The overall stiffness of the actuator can affect results. If the user presses too strongly on the moving surface then the user may move the surface while dragging pointing the finger and this can run the actuator out of its spring center. A preferred embodiment has a forceful but stiff actuator one that the user can barely back drive by pressing strongly.

Having particular amount of travel or compliance on the moving surface e.g. about 2 mm is desirable in some embodiments. There is a strong spring centering from the motor and linkage and moving the cursor between two objects such as buttons in a GUI can be very realistic because the user may perceive true kinesthetic force feedback until finger pressure is decreased and the finger is moved quickly across the screen in a relative mode. The haptic effects which are output are simple tactile pops and no actual kinesthetic springs are providing force in the X or Y directions. However the user senses that his or her finger is being pulled into an adjacent object e.g. the next button.

It should be noted that kinesthetic force feedback is possible in a different embodiment. For example if the user keeps his or her finger in one place on the moving surface and the moving surface has a large enough displacement forces can be output in the degrees of freedom of motion of the moving surface providing kinesthetic force feedback. The sensor of the touchpad can be used as the sensor indicating the position of the finger moving surface for computation of the force such as a spring force having a magnitude dependent on the distance that is moved from an origin of the spring. Thus such an embodiment would be a dual mode haptic system including both tactile and kinesthetic modes.

Some embodiments of the moving surface may allow sliding by the user while others may be very stiff with little sliding. In many embodiments if the maximum permitted movement of the surface is enough to allow traversal between two adjacent graphical targets then the kinesthetic mode can be effective and user may not notice that he or she is moving the surface it feels natural. Some embodiments can provide translation and forces in two axes X and Y allowing this kinesthetic directed feedback real springs in all directions of the touchpad.

Haptic effects may not feel the same if the user is not moving his or her finger or object on the touchpad. There is often content and value in the correspondence of touchpad motion with the haptic effect e.g. a detent pop effect . For example it is effective when the user finger is moving and receiving the pop effect when the finger translates the moving surface to the transition point between the icons or buttons.

Many of the advantages described above for separate translating surfaces are also applicable to translating the touchpad surface described in detail below.

Thus the magnetic fields of the magnet and the current flowing through coil interact to cause a linear force on the frame which causes the frame and portion to move as indicated by arrow . This provides haptic sensations to the user similarly to the separate translating surface embodiments described above. The housing can surround the entire frame except for an opening surrounding the portion of the frame . In some embodiments wires from the coil can be connected to the touchpad PCB using a separate flex circuit finger that branches off of the moving frame .

The user can rest his or her thumb palm or finger on the thumb surface while operating the touchpad in order to feel the haptic sensations. To press the button located underneath the thumb surface the user simply presses down on the surface . Overall the sensations tend to be similar to the sensations for the other translating surfaces described above. In other embodiments the link member can be much longer to allow desired placement of the actuator in the housing of the laptop or other device.

One disadvantage is that there is no feedback to the user unless the user has a thumb finger or palm on the thumb surface area. The user may have to reach for other buttons to type and then lose the haptic experience. A larger surface or palm pad extension can be used in embodiments in which it may be difficult to keep the user s thumb on the surface while using the same hand to point with the touchpad.

These embodiments translate the touchpad surface itself rather than moving a separate surface. The user feels the translating touchpad moving laterally in shear with his or her skin creating an immediate sensation. The touchpad can be moved relative to a fixed surround such as a laptop housing.

For example a standard DC motor can be used for actuator and a polypropylene linkage assembly for linkage . In one embodiment the haptic feedback components can reside where optional components for the laptop are normally placed such as an optional disc drive.

In other embodiments the actuator can be located remotely from the touchpad e.g. wherever space is available in the housing as opposed to directly underneath the touchpad as illustrated in . Linkages can be used to locate the actuator s remotely from the touchpad as shown in below.

Translating the entire touchpad in one or two axes may be one good overall haptics approach. Very small displacements 0.2 mm

Some advantages are apparent in this type of embodiment. Feedback experience is direct well correlated with pointing and precise. Implementation can be flexible and unobtrusive and addition of haptic components does not alter how the touchpad is used. The translating surface has a small displacement requirement compared with inertial approaches this can lead to reduced power consumption and manufacturing benefits. In some embodiments the motion of the touchpad can be oriented at an angle in the x y plane. Some disadvantages may include use of a DC motor which are relatively large a flexible linkage may need a lot of clearance and may cause friction and power consumption may be relatively high.

A second actuator grounded to the laptop housing is coupled to the other end of the second linkage member by a flexible member where the axis of rotation of the rotating shaft of the actuator is substantially the same as the axis of rotation of the actuator . The rotary force output by the rotating shaft of the actuator is converted to a linear force by the flexible member . This linear force causes the second linkage member to move linearly along its length which in turn causes the first linkage member to pivot approximately about its end near actuator along the y axis and cause the touchpad to move approximately along the y axis. The actuators and can be for example DC motors or any other type of actuator e.g. linear actuators can also be used as described below in . The linkage members can be made of any suitable material e.g. carbon fiber. Preferably very little energy is absorbed by the grounded structure or by unwanted deformations in the linkage assembly.

Thus the mechanism decouples the x and y motions by activating actuator x axis motion is provided and by activating actuator y axis motion is provided both x and y axis motion can be provided by activating both motors simultaneously. Both actuators can be driven either together common mode or differentially differential mode to achieve pure X or Y movement without binding the linkage parts. Furthermore any combination of drive current will produce a resultant force along any arbitrary axis with the same fidelity and lack of binding.

One embodiment may use firmware for rapid evaluation and output of X and Y forces e.g. software running on a local controller such as a microprocessor or running off the host CPU. In some embodiments such firmware may be too complex so that alternatively a mechanism with an electronic way of switching between the two principle feedback axes can be used. In one embodiment the two DC motors can be connected in a series circuit with switch that reverses the current through one of the two motors.

In the embodiment of the user may feel the difference between x and y directional forces when moving a finger or object on the touchpad in the x direction. There is haptic value in having the correlation or alignment of tactile feedback with finger cursor motion in some cases alignment can boost the haptic signal to noise ratio. For example moving the cursor right to left over icons or buttons may feel better and more like real buttons to the user when the feedback is directed horizontally along the x axis. Less power may be required overall if the feedback is aligned with the cursor direction instead of being omnidirectional or misaligned. In some cases a weaker aligned haptic effect may be more meaningful than a stronger misaligned effect.

The touchpad surface with enhanced texture moves relative to a fixed surrounding surface with enhanced texture. The enhanced texture is more rough corrugated or otherwise textured allowing a stronger user contact.

In some other embodiments the touchpad surface can be comprised of interdigitated surface features that move relative to each other in x and or y directions. For example two halves of a touchpad can be driven by actuator s to move relative to each other.

In other embodiments other actuators can be used to move the touchpad touchscreen or other touch device in the z direction. For example piezo electric actuators voice coil actuators or moving magnet actuators can be directly coupled to the touchpad or touchscreen to provide direct motion of the touch surface. Piezo electric actuators are described with reference to copending patent application Ser. No. 09 487 737. Also the touchpad surface can be comprised of a fixed tactile surface and a reference surface where the reference surface can displaced along the z axis with respect to the fixed tactile surface.

Actuator presents a inventive embodiment of an E core that can be used to translate the touchpad or alternatively to translate a separate surface as in the embodiments of . A folded over flat 3 D embodiment shown in that may behave substantially like a 2 D case but with more leakage and non uniform flux at the poles.

Actuator includes a ferromagnetic piece shaped as an E which can be made of a metal such as a ferrous metal or carbon steel plate and can be a single piece of metal or a lamination. A coil of wire is wound about the central pole of the E of the ferromagnetic piece . A floating plastic cage can be positioned on the ferromagnetic piece and can include two or more rollers positioned in apertures in the cage and oriented so that the rollers roll about axes parallel to the axis passing through the coil about which the coil is wound. The cage can be plastic and is floating i.e. unattached to other components to allow the rollers to roll. A two pole magnet is positioned above the poles of the ferromagnetic piece and cage so that there is an air gap between magnet and ferromagnetic piece. The magnet is coupled to the underside in the orientation of the figures other orientations are possible of a backing steel piece which is positioned on top of and contacting the rollers . The rollers thus set the nominal magnetic gap between the magnet and the ferromagnetic piece . The backing steel piece can be rigidly coupled to the touchpad as shown in so that the touchpad steel piece and magnet can translate relative to the ferromagnetic piece . For example the magnet may in some embodiments be a two pole bonded neodymium wafer and the steel parts may be stamped from single sheets about 1 mm thick. Additional rollers or foam can be used to support the end of the ferromagnetic piece opposite the magnet . The magnet cage and backing piece are located to the side of the E poles rather than at the front edge as in other E core type actuators this allows the actuator to be made very flat for laptop and other portable device applications.

In operation an electrical current is flowed through the coil which causes magnetic flux to flow through the ferromagnetic piece in the direction of arrows . In reaction the steel plate moves in a direction along the axis indicated by arrow the direction is dependent on the direction of the current in the coil . The rollers rotate to allow the steel plate and magnet to translate relative to the ferromagnetic piece . The floating cage keeps the rollers from moving in undesired directions as they rotate. Also the magnetic attractive normal forces which occur between ferromagnetic piece and magnet are reacted with the rollers . Other Flat E related embodiments can include flexure and knife edge suspensions to react allow motion from magnetic normal forces.

The flat E actuator embodiments described herein can be used to translate the touchpad or touchscreen or a separate surface member above or to the side of the touchpad. For example two flat E actuators can be used in a configuration similar to that of to drive the touchpad or surface member in two axes x and y.

The actuator can be made very thin in comparison with other actuators e.g. the assembly can be made approximately 3 or 4 mm thick less than half as thick as other E core actuators. The magnetics design can be iterated for optimal performance. Linearity and detent forces can be traded for thickness.

Advantages include a planar thin geometry which is suitable for laptops PDA and other portable devices. The moving magnet approach does not require a large air gap so it may be more attractive for laptop haptic feedback. An E core prototype was 10 mm.times.20 mm.times.8 mm and is smaller than most DC motors with equivalent force and power consumption Furthermore it is a direct drive configuration so no transmission is required between actuator and touchpad. Efficient low cost and easy to manufacture components allow the actuator to be produced cheaply. The actuator is simple to integrate with existing touchpad PCB s and modules. One disadvantage is that magnetic attractive normal forces exist which may necessitate a suspension. Rollers and or flexure and knife edge suspensions can be used in some embodiments to react magnetic normal forces.

The actuator generally provides good bandwidth. Larger e.g. 1 mm displacements can be achieved. Those embodiments employing foam to support the opposite end of the ferromagnetic piece have a return spring having a low spring constant mostly from the foam suspension operated in shear mode. Audible noise may also be reduced by using the foam and or rollers. While the haptic performance is good the displacement of the surface is small enough so that when the user is moving a finger over the touchpad to move the cursor over the desktop the surface displacement does not noticeably affect the cursor motion.

Embodiment also includes a flexible suspension which can be coupled to the middle layer plastic cage and can include two linkages that are thus effectively coupled between the steel plate and the ferromagnetic piece . The linkages contact the steel plate at ends and are coupled to the cage layer at ends or molded with the cage layer as a single plastic piece . Each linkage includes a thinner portion and a thicker portion .

In operation a current is flowed through coil and the magnetic forces resulting from the current and magnet cause the plate and the touchpad to move as indicated by axis . The suspension including linkages prevents the plate from skewing due to magnetic normal forces and any other forces. Each linkage flexes to accommodate the motion of the plate where the thinner members flex first and the thicker members flex if the limits of flex are reached for members . The thinner thicker structure allows spring centering to operate until the thicker stiffer beams are engaged which provide a softer feeling stop to motion. The final limit to motion is caused by either of the stops hitting the inner edge of the plate .

The flexible suspension described above effectively allows lateral desired motion of the plate and touchpad but prevent motion in any other direction. This creates a much more stable motion of the plate and does not allow the plate to drift in its position over time. Furthermore the suspension provides a desirable spring centering force on the plate and touchpad allowing the touchpad to move to the center of its range of motion when the user stops touching and forcing the touchpad.

A flat E actuator as described above can be used to translate touchpad modules or palm surfaces directly. In the described embodiments the total thickness of the flat E actuator can be about 3 mm or less. Flat E magnetic assemblies that can be integrated into the an existing touchpad product line represent a preferred embodiment in terms of size manufacturability and economy of scale.

In other embodiments other moving magnet actuator designs such as described in copending application Ser. No. 09 608 130 and other voice coil actuator designs such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 166 723 and 6 100 874 can be used. Voice coil actuators may be thicker since the coil is positioned in a relatively large magnetic gap. Moving magnet actuators typically have smaller inherent air gaps.

In other embodiments other types of input surfaces or display screens can be similarly translated using any of the actuators described herein. For example a clear surface such as the input sensing device s covering a display screen of a personal digital assistant PDA or a touch screen on a monitor or CRT can be similarly translated in the X and or Y directions parallel to the screen surface to provide haptic feedback. One application for such clear screen translation is ATM machines where the user typically inputs information on a touch screen. Haptic feedback can make such input more accessible and easy for people with below average vision. Haptic feedback can indicate when the user s finger is over a graphically displayed button or can identify particular displayed buttons with different haptic sensations. This can be useful in many ATM applications since there is not a cursor that is moved haptic feedback can thus be useful to indicate to the user that a button has been pressed e.g. a small vibration is output when a button is activated. Haptic feedback may also assist users in noisy environments such as in areas with high vehicular traffic where sound may not be easily heard by the user.

The embodiments described herein can also provide haptic feedback in an embodiment where the user is using a stylus or other object to input data on the touchpad touch screen or input area. The haptic sensations can be transmitted to the user from the touchpad or other moving surface and through the stylus or other object.

A human factor issue related to haptic feedback in some embodiments may include force overload protection. Ideally for non inertial feedback actuators and transmission designs such as the translating surfaces and differential surfaces it is desired for the actuator to produce large forces with fidelity regardless of the load on the actuator or the position within the actuator travel. Put another way the finger or hand of the user should not move the actuator against a limit or reach an end of travel condition where half of a vibration cycle is attenuated. For this reason it is desirable to design actuator and transmission mechanisms that are inherently decoupled from the user loading. An example of this would be an E core actuator with very high spring centering provided by a stiff suspension as in the embodiment of . A forceful actuator can overcome this spring force easily and the forces of a finger dragging on a touchpad surface are a small percentage of full scale actuator output. A weaker actuator may require a more compliant suspension and this would allow the user interaction to interfere with oscillations and create non linear output.

Another human factor related issue with haptic feedback in some embodiments can be audibility. The use of palm rest surfaces and inertial actuator assemblies for example causes sound that is the unavoidable side effect of a haptic sounding board. Loaded surfaces such as when the user is touching the housing or touchpad radiate sound poorly and still transmit forces quite well. Thus in some embodiments a load measuring device can be used to determine when the user s hands are present on moving surfaces to allow forces to be output only when such hands are present.

To save costs when providing haptic functionality to a laptop touchpad or other similar input device the existing sound electronics within the laptop PDA or other device can be utilized in some embodiments. For example the existing sound analog output e.g. digital to analog converter and the sound power amplifiers can drive the actuator used for haptic feedback for the touchpad or other laptop component as described above without having to add an additional microprocessor and or additional power electronics. A notch filter or other pickoff from the sound signal can be used to provide the haptic feedback signal. For example haptic effect control signals can be provided in the inaudible range of the sound spectrum and filtered so that these control signals can be provided to the haptic actuator while the remainder of the signal in the audible range is routed to the audio speakers of the laptop. Or dedicated signals that are outside the audible range and not included with audio signals can be filtered or routed to control the haptic feedback actuator s .

Furthermore existing software on many laptops tracks the battery power for the laptop to indicate power level warn the user or shutoff the laptop to conserve battery power. This tracking software can be tapped into for haptic feedback applications. For example if battery power gets below a certain level the haptic feedback software routines can scale down or even turn off the output forces to the user. This can be accomplished by dropping the magnitude of the forces or by reducing the types or number of graphical objects in the GUI that have haptic effects associated with them. This can also be accomplished by shortening the duration of haptic effects e.g. effects that are normally 50 ms can be reduced to 40 ms etc. Also a combination of such methods can be used. Finally some laptop computers have different settings such as high power medium power and low power which a user can select according to his or her needs e.g. lower power setting allows the batteries to last longer. The haptic feedback control can link into the setting and be governed by this setting as well. For example if the user selects low power mode the haptic feedback controller can adapt as described above to reduce power requirements of the haptic effects.

The cursor control region of a touchpad can cause forces to be output on the touchpad based on interactions of the controlled cursor with the graphical environment and or events in that environment. The user moves a finger or other object within region for example to correspondingly move the cursor . Forces are preferably associated with the interactions of the cursor with displayed graphical objects. For example a jolt or pulse sensation can be output which is a single impulse of force that quickly rises to the desired magnitude and then is turned off or quickly decays back to zero or small magnitude. The touchpad can be jolted in one direction or as an oscillation in the z axis or other axis inertially in the inertial haptic feedback embodiments or the touchpad can be translated in one direction or oscillated one or more times to provide the pulse. A vibration sensation can also be output which is a time varying force that is typically periodic. The vibration can cause the touchpad or portions thereof to oscillate back and forth multiple times and can be out put by a host or local microprocessor to simulate a particular effect that is occurring in a host application.

Another type of force sensation that can be output on the touchpad is a texture force. This type of force is similar to a pulse force but depends on the position of the user s finger on the area of the touchpad and or on the location of the cursor in a graphical environment. Thus texture bumps can be output depending on whether the cursor has moved over a location of a bump in a graphical object. This type of force is spatially dependent i.e. a force is output depending on the location of the cursor as it moves over a designated textured area when the cursor is positioned between bumps of the texture no force is output and when the cursor moves over a bump a force is output. This can be achieved by host control e.g. the host sends the pulse signals as the cursor is dragged over the grating . In some embodiments a separate touchpad microprocessor can be dedicated for haptic feedback with the touchpad and the texture effect and be achieved using local control e.g. the host sends a high level command with texture parameters and the sensation is directly controlled by the touchpad processor . In other cases a texture can be performed by presenting a vibration to a user the vibration being dependent upon the current velocity of the user s finger or other object on the touchpad. When the finger is stationary the vibration is deactivated as the finger is moved faster the frequency and magnitude of the vibration is increased. This sensation can be controlled locally by the touchpad processor if present or be controlled by the host. Such texture sensations are described in copending application Ser. No. 09 504 201. Other spatial force sensations can also be output. In addition any of the described force sensations herein can be output simultaneously or otherwise combined as desired.

Different types of graphical objects can be associated with haptic sensations. Haptic sensations can output on the touchpad based on interaction between a cursor and a window menu icon web page link etc. For example a bump or pulse can be output on the touchpad to signal the user of the location of the cursor when the cursor is moved over a border of a window. In other related interactions when a rate control or scrolling function is performed with the touchpad through use of the cursor sensations can be output related to the rate control functions. Furthermore the magnitude of output forces on the touchpad can depend on the event or interaction in the graphical environment including user independent events. These force sensations can also be used in games or simulations. These and other haptic sensations are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 211 861 and copending patent application Ser. No. 09 585 741. Other control devices or grips that can include a touchpad in its housing include a gamepad mouse or trackball device for manipulating a cursor or other graphical objects in a computer generated environment or a pressure sphere or the like.

Some forms of touchpads and touchscreens allow the amount of pressure the user is exerting on the touchpad to be sensed. This allows a variety of haptic sensations to be determined based at least in part on the sensed pressure. For example a periodic vibration can be output having a frequency that depends on the sensed pressure. Or the gain magnitude of output haptic sensations can be adjusted based on the sensed pressure. Those users that always tend to use the touchpad with more pressure can be allowed to select an automatic magnitude increase that would be in effect constantly.

Other embodiments of touchpads and touchscreens allow the user to enter gestures or shortcuts by tracing a symbol on the cursor control region or other region which is recognized as a command or data by a processor. Haptic sensations can be associated with or dependent on particular gestures. For example a confirmation of modes can be conveyed haptically with a particular haptic sensation when a mode confirmation gesture is recognized. Characters recognized from gestures also may each have a particular haptic sensation associated with them. In most touchpad embodiments a user can select a graphical object or menu item by tapping the touchpad. Some touchpads may recognize a tap and a half or double tap which is the user doing a tap and then again touching the pad and maintaining the finger or object on the pad while moving the finger. For example such a gesture can provide a drag mode in which objects may be moved with the cursor. When the user is in such a drag mode a vibration or other haptic sensation can be output to indicate to the user that this mode is active.

As stated above the touchpad can also be provided with different control regions that provide separate input from the main cursor control region . In some embodiments the different regions can be physically marked with lines borders or textures on the surface of the touchpad and or sounds from the computer so that the user can visually audibly and or or tactilely tell which region he or she is contacting on the touchpad.

For example scroll or rate control regions and can be used to provide input to perform a rate control task such as scrolling documents adjusting a value such as audio volume speaker balance monitor display brightness etc. or panning tilting the view in a game or simulation. Region can be used by placing a finger or other object within the region where the upper portion of the region will increase the value scroll up etc. and the lower portion of the region will decrease the value scroll down etc. In embodiments that can read the amount of pressure placed on the touchpad the amount of pressure can directly control the rate of adjustment e.g. a greater pressure will cause a document to scroll faster. The region can similarly be used for horizontal left right scrolling or rate control adjustment of a different value view etc.

Particular haptic effects can be associated with the control regions and . For example when using the rate control region or a vibration of a particular frequency can be output on the touchpad. In those embodiments having multiple actuators an actuator placed directly under the region or can be activated to provide a more localized tactile sensation for the active currently used region. As a portion of a region is pressed for rate control pulses can be output on the touchpad or region of the touchpad to indicate when a page has scroll by a particular value has passed etc. A vibration can also be continually output while the user contacts the region or

Other regions can also be positioned on the touchpad . For example each of regions can be a small rectangular area like a button which the user can point to in order to initiate a function associated with the pointed to region. The regions can initiate such computer functions as running a program opening or closing a window going forward or back in a queue of web pages in a web browser powering the computer or initiating a sleep mode checking mail firing a gun in a game cutting or pasting data from a buffer saving a file to a storage device selecting a font etc. The regions can duplicate functions and buttons provided in an application program or provide new different functions.

Similarly to regions the regions an each be associated with haptic sensations for example a region can provide a pulse sensation when it has been selected by the user providing instant feedback that the function has been selected. For example a haptic sensation such as a pulse can be output when the user taps a finger or object on a region or to make a selection. Similar to physical analog buttons that provide a range of output based on how far the button is pushed one or more regions can be an analog like button by providing a proportional stepped or analog output based on the pressure the user is exerting on the touchpad.

Furthermore the same types of regions can be associated with similar feeling haptic sensations. For example each word processor related region can when pointed to cause a pulse of a particular strength while each game related region can provide a pulse of different strength or a vibration. Furthermore when the user moves the pointing object from one region or to another a haptic sensation such as a pulse can be output on the touchpad to signify that a region border has been crossed For example a high frequency vibration which quickly decays to zero magnitude can be output when the pointing object enters a designated region. This can be valuable since it provides an indication of the borders to the regions and which the user would not otherwise know. This also allows region reconfiguration of size and or location and allows the user to quickly learn the new layout haptically. Regions can also be associated with enclosures which define areas in a graphical environment and the different haptic sensations which are output when the cursor enters exits and is moved within the enclosure and the particular borders having such haptic associations.

In addition the regions are preferably programmable in size and shape as well as in the function with which they are associated. Thus the functions for regions can change based on an active application program in the graphical environment and or based on user preferences input to and or stored on the computer . Preferably the size and location of each of the regions can be adjusted by the user or by an application program and any or all of the regions can be completely removed if desired. Furthermore the user is preferably able to assign particular haptic sensations to particular areas or types of areas based on types of functions associated with those areas as desired. Different haptic sensations can be designed in a tool such as Immersion Studio available from Immersion Corp. of San Jose Calif.

It should be noted that the regions and need not be physical regions of the touchpad . That is the entire touchpad surface need merely provide coordinates of user contact to the processor of the computer and software on the computer can designate where different regions are located. The computer can interpret the coordinates and based on the location of the user contact can interpret the touchpad input signal as a cursor control signal or a different type of signal such as rate control button function etc. e.g. a driver program can provide this interpreting function if desired . A local touchpad microprocessor if present may alternatively interpret the function associated with the user contact location and report appropriate signal or data to the host processor such as position coordinates or a button signal thus keeping the host processor or software ignorant of the lower level processing. In other embodiments the touchpad can be physically designed to output different signals to the computer based on different regions physically marked on the touchpad surface that are contacted by the user e.g. each region can be sensed by a different sensor or sensor array.

Any of those embodiments described herein which provide haptic feedback to the finger or object of the user that contacts the touchpad or touchscreen may be used with the regions of touchpad .

While this subject matter has been described in terms of several preferred embodiments it is contemplated that alterations permutations and equivalents thereof will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and study of the drawings. For example many of the features described in one embodiment can be used interchangeably with other embodiments. Furthermore certain terminology has been used for the purposes of descriptive clarity and not to be limiting.

