---

title: Method and apparatus for mitigating interference from terrestrial broadcasts sharing the same channel with satellite broadcasts using an antenna with posterior sidelobes
abstract: A method of transmitting information is also disclosed. In this method the information is transmitted on at least one frequency simultaneously usable by at least one satellite transmitting to a satellite receive antenna having a sensitivity characterizable by a primary sensitive axis directed substantially at the satellite and a posterior secondary sensitive axis. The method is performed by transmitting the information from a terrestrially-based transmitter to a terrestrial receive antenna in a direction substantially away from the Equator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07917080&OS=07917080&RS=07917080
owner: The DIRECTV Group, Inc.
number: 07917080
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070711
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 872 810 filed Jun. 21 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 257 370 by Paul R. Anderson and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MITIGATING INTERFERENCE FROM TERRESTRIAL BROADCASTS SHARING THE SAME CHANNEL WITH SATELLITE BROADCASTS USING AN ANTENNA WITH POSTERIOR SIDELOBES which application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 480 089 filed Jan. 10 2000 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 778 810 which application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 169 005 filed Dec. 3 1999 by Paul R. Anderson and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MITIGATING INTERFERENCE FROM TERRESTRIAL BROADCASTS SHARING THE SAME CHANNEL WITH SATELLITE BROADCASTS USING AN ANTENNA WITH POSTERIOR SIDELOBES all of which application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to systems and methods receiving broadcast signals and in particular to a system and method for receiving simultaneous terrestrial and satellite broadcasts sharing the same channel using an antenna with posterior sidelobes and anterior nulls.

It has been proposed to cooperatively share the current Broadcast Satellite Service BSS frequency bands to allow additional programming material to be transmitted to BSS users or subscribers using the same frequency bands as currently used by BSS satellites. This is implemented through the use of terrestrial based transmitters to transmit the additional programming.

One such system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 761 605 issued to Tawil et al. on Jun. 2 1998 which patent is hereby incorporated by reference herein. This patent describes a system in which transmissions from the terrestrial transmitter are received by a second antenna at the user s premises that faces in the opposite azimuthal direction from the BSS satellite receive antenna.

Fundamental to any such system including the system disclosed in the 605 patent is that the isolation between the signals from the terrestrial source and the satellite source must be sufficient to prevent interference. While the foregoing system applies to simultaneous channel sharing between satellite and terrestrial transmitters it requires a BSS satellite ground antenna having highly directional monocular sensitivity characteristics in order to realize low interference levels. Such antennae can be difficult and expensive to design and produce. Further it is impractical to replace or modify the several million BSS satellite receive antennae now in use which do not have the desired highly directional monocular sensitivity. Thus any simultaneous use of the BSS bandwidth for terrestrial transmissions according to the 605 patent would cause large areas of unacceptably high interference with existing systems.

What is needed is a system and method that provides significantly improved interference isolation to provide simultaneous channel sharing without requiring a satellite ground antenna e.g. a BSS antenna with highly directional sensitivity characteristics. Preferably such a system and method would permit terrestrial re use of the subject BSS broadcast frequencies with reduced and more acceptable potential interference levels particularly when used with standard BSS antennae already in widespread use. The present invention satisfies that need.

To address the requirements described above the present invention discloses a method and apparatus for simultaneously receiving a first signal from a non terrestrial source and a second signal from a terrestrial source on the same or overlapping channels.

In one embodiment the apparatus comprises at least one terrestrial transmitter transmitting information on at least one frequency simultaneously usable by at least one satellite transmitting to a satellite receive antenna having a sensitivity characterizable by a primary sensitive axis directed substantially at the satellite. The terrestrial transmitter includes an azimuthal gain characteristic directed substantially away from the Earth s Equator. In another embodiment the terrestrial transmitter is disposed at a location defining a vector angularly displaced from the primary sensitive axis by an angle of less than 90 degrees.

In still another embodiment the apparatus comprises a terrestrial receive antenna for receiving a first signal from a terrestrial transmitter on a frequency usable by at least one satellite transmitting to a satellite receive antenna having a sensitivity characterizable by a primary sensitive axis directed substantially at the satellite. The terrestrial receive antenna includes a primary sensitive axis directed substantially in the direction of the Earth s Equator. In another embodiment the terrestrial receive antenna sensitive axis is displaced away from the satellite receive antenna primary sensitive axis by an offset angle of less than 90 degrees.

In yet another embodiment the present invention includes a first antenna having a sensitivity characteristic with a plurality of lobes and nulls therebetween and a second antenna having a sensitivity characteristic with a plurality of lobes and nulls therebetween. The first antenna includes an anteriorly arranged main lobe and one or more posteriorly arranged sidelobes. At least one of the lobes of the first antenna is directed substantially at the non terrestrial source and at least one of the nulls of the first antenna is directed substantially at the terrestrial source so that the first antenna receives the first signal from the non terrestrial source while substantially rejecting the second signal from the terrestrial source. At least one of the second antenna nodes is directed substantially at the terrestrial source so that the second antenna may receive the second signal. In one embodiment to further enhance isolation between the first signal and the second signal the second antenna is directed so that in addition to the foregoing one of the second antenna nulls is directed substantially at the non terrestrial source.

The present invention is also embodied in a method of transmitting information on at least one frequency simultaneously usable by at least one satellite transmitting to a satellite receive antenna having a sensitivity characterizable by a primary sensitive axis directed substantially at the satellite and a posterior secondary sensitive axis. The method is performed by transmitting the information from a terrestrially based transmitter to a terrestrial receive antenna in a direction substantially away from the Equator. In another embodiment the invention is embodied by a method for receiving information transmitted on at least one frequency simultaneously usable by at least one satellite transmitting to a satellite receive antenna having a sensitivity characterizable by a primary sensitive axis directed substantially at the satellite and a posterior secondary sensitive axis. In this embodiment the method is performed by receiving the information with a terrestrial receive antenna from a terrestrially based transmitter transmitting the information in a direction substantially away from the Equator.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which is shown by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Depending on the sensitivity and rejection characteristics of the satellite receive antenna and the sensitivity characteristic used to transmit the terrestrial signal the terrestrial signal may impinge on the satellite receive antenna whether or not the terrestrial receive antenna is present. This terrestrial signal will be detected by satellite receive antenna as determined by the sensitivity or gain characteristic of the satellite receive antenna in the direction of the terrestrial transmitter and the received power flux density level of the interfering terrestrial signal at the subscriber premises.

Some portion of the satellite signal also impinges on the terrestrial receive antenna whether or not the satellite receive antenna is present. This satellite signal is detected by the terrestrial receive antenna as determined by the sensitivity or gain characteristic of the terrestrial receive antenna in the direction of the satellite transmitter and the received power flux density level of the interfering satellite signal at the subscriber premises .

One approach to reduce the above described signal interference is to use a satellite receive and terrestrial receive antennae and with highly directional gain characteristics. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 761 605 relies on the use of a satellite receive antenna with a maximum directional reception range das measured from the satellite receive antenna center line. In this approach the satellite receive antenna is designed so that only signals inside the directional reception range can be received and signals outside of this reception range cannot be received by the satellite receive antenna . The difficulty with this approach is that antennae with such characteristics are difficult to design and produce inexpensively.

The polar sensitivity characteristic of the satellite receive antenna is a function of a number of interrelated physical and electrical antenna characteristics. These characteristics include among other things the sensitivity characteristics and physical location of the LNB relative to the reflector and the shape of the surface of the reflector .

For example the LNB may be disposed closer to the surface of the reflector but the focus of the parabolic reflector and hence its external surface contour must be changed to account for this modified LNB location. Further the beamwidth of the sensitive axis of the LNB must be modified to achieve the desired antenna sensitivity. Similarly the LNB may be placed farther away from the reflector and other antenna parameters must be modified to reflect this difference.

To maximize the antenna sensitivity along its centerline it is desirable that the beamwidth of the sensitive axis of the LNB be wide enough to accept signals from as much of the reflector surface as possible including the outer periphery. At the same time if the beamwidth of the LNB is too wide exceeding the periphery of the reflector spillover from behind the reflector can be received by the LNB . In such cases the sensitivity characteristic of the antenna will include sidelobes in the posterior rear side of the antenna having a significant sensitivity.

The sensitivity characteristic shown in show that for all elevation angles the antenna gain response is relatively high for sidelobes at and angles of 50 degrees on either side of the back antenna centerline at locations corresponding to approximately 50 degrees and 310 degrees . At these angles the antenna gain is approximately 0 dBi due at least on part to spillover from the LNB . Thus interference sources located behind the antenna will be received by the antenna at the indicated significant gain levels.

Returning to for an interference source located in front of the satellite receive antenna the worst case or highest relative gain at the horizon where a terrestrial transmitter would be located occurs at angles very close to the front antenna centerline reference angles depicted in as near 180 degrees . Note however that the gain values near reference angles of 180 degrees are only troublesome for an elevation angle of about 10 degrees or equivalently 10 degrees below the front antenna centerline . That is at an elevation angle of 10 the gain of the antenna at a 180 reference angle the front of the antenna is greater than the gain at reference angles of about 50 at and at about 310 at . At higher elevation angles the gain of the satellite receive antenna at the 180 reference angle is in fact significantly lower that the gain seen off the back of the antenna at the 50 and 310 reference angles. This is because at sufficiently high elevation angles the interfering source is being received at an angle sufficiently far away from the main beam of the antenna that there is sufficient isolation. At elevation angles of 10 degrees and below the interfering source is within the main lobe of the antenna and isolation becomes poor.

For satellite receive antennae with the foregoing characteristics the interference regions for all but the lowest elevation angles is reduced when the terrestrial transmitter or other interference source is located in front of the satellite receive antenna not behind the satellite receive antenna as is the case with the high directivity antennae used in the Tawil patent.

Unfortunately the terrestrial transmitter C also transmits the second signal to the satellite receive antenna along path . However in this channel sharing system the terrestrial transmitters A D hereinafter alternatively referred to as terrestrial transmitter s are disposed so that the offset angle of their transmissions from the axis defined by the path are greater than a particular offset angle from the axis defined by path . This offset angle which can be defined in terms of an elevation component and an azimuth component depends on the beamwidth of the main lobe of the satellite receive antenna . So long as the terrestrial transmitters are disposed so that the offset angle in azimuth and elevation is greater than the effective beamwidth of the satellite receive antenna sufficient isolation can be realized. It is also noted that for the continental United States CONUS these low elevation angles are only associated with two narrow azimuth ranges one near 105 almost due East and one near 225 almost due West . Conversely the significant posterior side lobes are a significant factor over a much wider azimuth range.

In one embodiment of the invention the terrestrial transmitter can be disposed anywhere in front of the satellite receive antenna including directly in front of it so long as a minimum elevation angle is maintained. When the sensitivity characteristic of the satellite receive antenna in the direction of terrestrial transmitter C is either in a null or in one of the low sensitivity lobes the second signal is greatly attenuated when compared to the signal received from the satellite transmitter thus providing improved isolation between the first signal from the satellite transmitter and the second signal from the terrestrial transmitter C. Similarly terrestrial transmitter D also undesirably transmits the second signal to the satellite receive antenna . However since the satellite receive antenna is elevated by elevation angle terrestrial transmitter D is substantially aligned with null axis B and thus within null B. Hence the signal from terrestrial transmitter D transmitted along path is sufficiently attenuated so that the second signal from the terrestrial transmitter D does not interfere with the first signal transmitted along path . The main lobe and hence the primary axis however is substantially aligned with the path to the satellite transmitter . Hence the satellite receive antenna will receive a strong signal from this source.

Hence unlike the system disclosed in the Tawil patent which requires the use of a satellite receive antenna with a highly directive monocular antennae gain characteristic the present system is usable with a satellite receive antenna described by a sensitivity characteristic which may include significant posteriorly disposed sidelobes. Since transmission paths and from all of the potentially interfering transmitters C D respectively are at sufficient offset angle determined by the combination of the azimuth offset component and the elevation offset component of the angle between the satellite receive antenna and the terrestrial transmitter interference is minimized.

As can be seen by the foregoing all but the lowest elevation angles create smaller interference zones when the interference source is located in front of and not behind the satellite receive antenna . For the Northern Hemisphere this means that the preferred direction for a potentially interfering terrestrial transmission is from a southerly direction so that the transmissions are received on the anterior side but below the main beam of the satellite receive antenna .

This technique can be applied in either hemisphere. For example for use in the Southern Hemisphere the terrestrial transmission system is designed to transmit in a southerly direction so that the interference source is in front of the satellite receive antennas which face north. This concept is also extendable to use with other overlapping transmission channels where there is a desire to minimize interference between terrestrial transmissions and satellite transmissions.

In one embodiment of the present invention elevation angle is selected to be at least approximately 10 degrees. This value provides a reasonable angular distance from the main lobe while making the most of the transmitting satellite coverage. For 45 cm diameter satellite receive antennae elevation angles below 10 degrees are at the edge of coverage for a satellite transmitter because the satellite receive antennae appear from the satellite transmitter s perspective to be very close to the limb of the Earth.

In another embodiment of the present invention the terrestrial receive antenna can also be described by a polar sensitivity characteristic having lobes and nulls. The terrestrial receive antenna can be aligned so that one of the nulls of the terrestrial receive antenna is substantially aligned with an axis between the terrestrial receive antenna and the satellite transmitter while a lobe preferably the main lobe of the terrestrial receive antenna is substantially aligned with an axis between the terrestrial receive antenna and the terrestrial transmitter C.

Satellite transmitters are typically designed such that the transmitted power levels fall off from higher to significantly lower values at the edge of the primary coverage area allowing transmitted power to be concentrated on this primary coverage area. Because of this reduced transmitted power at edge of coverage larger and typically more expensive ground receive antennas are required to receive these signals. These larger antennas have greater gain and smaller beamwidths. Thus they provide increased isolation to in line terrestrial transmitters relative to the isolation that could be achieved with 45 cm antennas. This improved isolation compensates for the reduced vertical separation angle between any in line terrestrial transmitters and the beam peak and should tend to maintain the advantage of northerly directed transmissions over southerly directed transmissions for some range of elevation angles below 10 degrees.

As described above the present invention describes a system which can cooperatively share the current Broadcast Satellite Service BSS frequency bands to allow additional programming material to be transmitted to BSS users or subscribers using the same frequency bands as currently used by BSS satellites. Further the present invention achieves this goal without requiring expensive specially designed satellite receive antennae .

Although not necessary to practice the present invention the terrestrial receive antenna may be disposed proximate the satellite receive antenna . For example the terrestrial receive antenna and the satellite receive antenna may be attached to the same support structure or installed on different portions of the customer s residence. However it is noted that in the general case the transmit receive antenna will be used by different customers than the satellite receive antenna and generally will not be located proximate the satellite receive antenna.

A useful yardstick to measure the performance of the two systems depicted in is to determine the size of the interference zones for each system. In this context the interference zone is defined as the minimum separation distance that must be maintained between the terrestrial transmitter and the satellite receive antenna in order to maintain a pre defined level of interference between the signals. While the present invention reduces the size of these interference zones they are not entirely eliminated. Hence even with the substantially improved performance offered by the present invention satellite communications will be negatively affected by the use of the channel sharing terrestrial transmission system. An interference zone analysis is presented below.

In order to calculate the size of interference zones for both a northerly transmitting system and a southerly transmitting system it is important to determine for each possible azimuth angle to the terrestrial source the worst case gain of the satellite receive antenna . The satellite receive antenna must be protected from interference when it is pointing to any visible portion of the geosynchronous arc down to some minimum elevation angle.

For each possible geometric alignment of the terrestrial transmitter satellite receive antenna and satellite transmitter the worst case highest satellite receive antenna gain sensitivity at the horizon in the direction of the terrestrial transmitter is calculated. This is equivalent to the maximum gain of the satellite receive antenna at the horizon at any given azimuth angle from an easternmost elevation angle e.g. with the satellite receive antenna disposed as in A to a westernmost minimum elevation angle e.g. with the satellite receive antenna disposed as in B thus providing the worst case potential for interference for all possible orientations of the satellite receive antenna . This result can be used to compute a minimum separation distance to determine the interference zones and also to quantify the required azimuthal transmission characteristic of the terrestrial transmitters.

These results were generated using the sensitivity characteristic for a typical offset feed parabolic reflector 45 cm satellite receive antenna having the characteristics shown in . Table 1 presented in the appendix illustrates the computations used to generate the results shown in . The last three columns of Table 1 labeled AL AM and AN describe the maximum horizon gain of the satellite receive antenna for minimum elevation angles restricted to 15 10 and 5 degrees respectively. This calculation is performed as a function of both the relative difference in longitude between the location of the satellite receive antenna and the location of the satellite transmitter and the relative azimuth angle from the terrestrial transmitter to the satellite receive antenna AZ .

Each interior column in Table 1 represents a specific longitudinal difference between the location of the satellite receive antenna and satellite transmitter . The elevation angle from the satellite receive antenna to the satellite transmitter is different for each column and the value is shown in degrees at the bottom of the Table. Each interior row in Table 1 represents a different azimuth angle from the terrestrial transmitter towards the satellite receive antenna .

The entry at the intersection of each interior row and column represents the horizon gain of the satellite receive antenna as calculated for a particular geometry and for a particular elevation angle to the satellite transmitter . Rows and in Table 1 provide the particular azimuth and elevation angles in degrees. For the purposes of example the horizon gain is chosen from the horizon gain antenna pattern closest in elevation angle to the true elevation angle.

The worst case maximum horizon gain for each row i.e. each selected azimuth angle from the terrestrial transmitter is then noted and recorded in the rightmost columns of the Table columns AL AN . This is the gain value that is used in the separation distance calculation to protect reception of a satellite receive antenna to all considered locations of satellite transmitters located along that particular radial line from the terrestrial transmitter .

From it is apparent that the maximum satellite receive antenna gain is minimized for northerly directed terrestrial transmitter transmissions between the angles AZ and AZ. Note that over a significant angular range the maximum gain values for northerly directed terrestrial transmissions are significantly lower than are seen for southerly directed transmissions providing increased isolation to interference sources.

Table 2 illustrates the terrestrial transmitter vertical elevation sensitivity characteristic which is used in the calculations that follow.

Table 3 presents a path loss calculation as a function of the distance from the terrestrial transmitter . The equation used to derive path loss values which can be expressed in decibels dB is 

Table 4 shows a computation of the isotropic signal received at the satellite receive antenna as a function of distance from the terrestrial transmitter and the azimuth angle from that transmitter. This was computed using the terrestrial transmitter antenna characteristics shown in and the vertical sensitivity characteristic shown in Table 2. The isotropic signal strength is the power that would be seen at the output port of an omnidirectional receive antenna with exactly 0 dB of gain.

Note that since the transmitter antenna provides the greatest sensitivity at 180 degrees the results presented in Table 4 refers to southerly directed transmissions. The equation used to derive the RSSvalue is as follows in dB 2 wherein P represents the terrestrial transmitter power in dBW L represents line losses from the terrestrial transmitter to the satellite receive antenna in dB A represents atmospheric losses in dB Grepresents the terrestrial transmitter antenna peak gain in dB Grepresents the terrestrial transmitter antenna relative horizontal gain in dB and Grepresents the terrestrial transmitter antenna relative vertical gain in dB.

Table 5 provides a calculation of the threshold or trigger value of RSSthat exceeds a given interference criteria. For purposes of this example and for an isotropic receive antenna with a gain of 0 dBi the threshold interfering signal level is set at 152.1 dBW. Where the horizon gain of the satellite receive antenna is different from 0 dBi this gain difference must be taken into account. The BSS Ant Gain column column P of Table 5 is the maximum horizon gain for a satellite receive antenna at the azimuth angles indicated in column O. This column comes directly from column AM of Table 1. The value in this column is subtracted from the RSSthreshold or trigger value to arrive at the RSSvalue needed to protect the satellite receive antenna . These results are shown in the rightmost column of Table 5.

Given the threshold RSSvalue calculated in Table 5 each row in Table 5 can be examined to identify the minimum satellite receive antenna separation distance at which the RSSlevel falls below the corresponding threshold value. This is repeated for each row in the Table representing a range of azimuth angles from the terrestrial transmitter to the satellite receive antenna.

The inner curve in represents the required minimum separation distance for satellite receive antenna . Inside of this curve the interfering signal level to a satellite receive antenna is above the calculated RSSthreshold level and unacceptable levels of interference result.

The same calculation can be performed for northerly directed terrestrial transmissions. This calculation uses the same parameters for satellite receive antenna gain sensitivity patterns terrestrial transmitter antenna gain patterns and power required service area signal strength and interference threshold criteria. The only difference is that the terrestrial transmissions are now directed substantially away from the Equator in the Northern Hemisphere in a Northerly direction instead of a Southerly direction and in the Southern Hemisphere in a Southerly direction instead of a Northerly direction .

Table 6 shows a path loss calculation for northerly directed transmissions. This table is the same as Table 3 except that the terrestrial transmitter to satellite receive antenna azimuth angle has been adjusted for the northerly directed transmissions.

Table 7 provides a calculation of received isotropic signal strength. The Table is similar to Table 4 but presents the result for northerly directed transmissions. The equation used to derive the RSSvalue is the same as described above for Table 4.

Table 8 provides the calculation of the threshold or trigger value of RSSthat exceeds the same interference criteria used in the derivation of . The BSS Ant Gain column column P is the maximum horizon gain for a satellite receive antenna at each of the indicated azimuth angles. The data in this column comes directly from the column AM of Table 1. The value in this column is subtracted from the RSSthreshold or trigger value to arrive at the RSSvalue needed to protect the satellite receive antenna . These results are shown in the rightmost column of Table 8.

Note that the values in the rightmost column of Table 8 are significantly higher overall than the values in the rightmost column of Table 5. This means that the separation distances can be shorter for northerly directed transmissions resulting in a smaller interference zone.

The outer curve of as it did in represents the service area of the terrestrial transmissions. Similarly the inner curve in represents the required minimum separation distance for a satellite receive antenna . The interference zone enclosed by the line defined by the minimum separation distance is significantly smaller than the corresponding zone in . For this example the area of the interference zone for southerly directed transmissions is approximately 36 square kilometers. The area of the interference zone for northerly directed transmissions is approximately 16 square kilometers less than half the area of that required for southerly directed transmissions.

As the foregoing discussion illustrates the use of northerly directed terrestrial transmissions significantly minimizes interference from terrestrial transmitters in the satellite receive antenna . The foregoing analysis can be extended to further refine these results to determine the optimal horizontal sensitivity characteristic of the terrestrial transmitter .

Note that the interference zone can be further reduced in size by selecting the horizontal sensitivity characteristic of the terrestrial transmitter to limit the angle of transmission so that the small wings of the interference zone are substantially excluded. As can be seen by comparing this technique is especially well suited to a system with terrestrial transmissions in a generally northerly direction. This is discussed more fully below.

The foregoing results can be improved even more by limiting the transmissions from the terrestrial transmitter to be within specific azimuthal angular limits.

Because the shape of the worst case horizon gain characteristic shown in it is preferred to direct transmissions from the terrestrial transmitters in a direction such that they are directed at the satellite receive antenna between AZ and AZ.

The foregoing can be generalized to determine AZand AZfor different satellite receive antenna location latitudes and minimum elevation angles as follows.

Assuming satellite transmitters are in orbits with a substantially zero inclination i 0 the elevation angle and azimuth angle of the satellite receive antenna with its primary sensitive axis directed at the satellite transmitter can be shown to be

Using the above relationships AZor AZcan be determined from AZor AZ respectively. AZis a function of the latitude of the satellite receive antenna location and the minimum allowed elevation angle of the satellite receive antenna . In other words AZ . To find AZfor a given latitude different values of the longitude difference are tried until reaches the desired value

Table 9 shows the longitude difference for satellite receive antenna locations from 0 to 70 degrees North and for minimum satellite receive antenna minimum elevation angles of 5 10 and 15 degrees.

Once the longitude difference is known one can solve for the easternmost azimuth angle corresponding to the specified minimum elevation angle using equation 5 . The result of the foregoing computation of AZ including the interim computation of the great circle arc is shown in Tables 10 and 11. Given the easternmost AZ angle of the satellite receive antenna the preferred easternmost AZ angle for significant terrestrial transmitter transmissions can be computed. AZcan be computed from the equation 3a . Recalling the diagram presented in it can be seen that terrestrial transmissions should approach the satellite receive antenna between the AZradial and the AZradial . The azimuth angle of a terrestrial transmitter pointing along AZand toward the satellite receive antenna is

Table 12 presents values for AZfor a typical 45 cm offset feed parabolic satellite receive antenna corresponding to the Table 10. Similarly the value for AZis 360 . 8 

Hence the preferred azimuthal angular limits as illustrated generically in for transmissions from the terrestrial transmitter are as shown in the Table 13.

This concludes the description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention. In summary the present invention discloses a method and apparatus for simultaneously receiving a first signal from a non terrestrial source and a second signal from a terrestrial source on the same or overlapping channels.

The apparatus comprises at least one terrestrial transmitter transmitting information on at least one frequency simultaneously usable by at least one satellite transmitting to a satellite receive antenna having a sensitivity characterizable by a primary sensitive axis directed substantially at the satellite. The terrestrial transmitter includes a azimuthal gain characteristic directed substantially away from the Earth s Equator. In an alternative embodiment the terrestrial transmitter is disposed at a location defining a vector angularly displaced from the primary sensitive axis by an angle of less than 90 degrees.

A method of transmitting information has also been disclosed. In this method the information is transmitted on at least one frequency simultaneously usable by at least one satellite transmitting to a satellite receive antenna having a sensitivity characterizable by a primary sensitive axis directed substantially at the satellite and a posterior secondary sensitive axis. The method is performed by transmitting the information from a terrestrially based transmitter to a terrestrial receive antenna in a direction substantially away from the Equator.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

For example in the foregoing discussion mention is made of lobes and nulls in the satellite receive antenna and the terrestrial receive antenna . It should be understood that the antenna nulls do not necessarily reflect a region of zero antenna sensitivity. In practice some residual sensitivity exists even at the antenna null points. Hence such nulls include regions where the gain of the antenna is such that the relevant signal is essentially rejected. Further it should be noted that although the foregoing invention has been described in terms of a satellite receive antenna and a terrestrial receive antenna disposed proximate thereto it is possible and perhaps desirable in some instances to fashion both antennae from a single structure with shared components. Hence the satellite receive antenna and the terrestrial receive antenna can be broadly described as antennas which may or may not share structural components. For example it is possible to design a dual feed antenna with a single reflector perhaps of a more complex shape to implement the foregoing invention.

Further in the foregoing description mention is made of frequency sharing between the terrestrial and non terrestrial transmission networks. However it is understood that there exist transmission networks using modulation techniques such as code division multiple access CDMA in which frequency sharing can be described in terms of channel sharing.

It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

