---

title: Architectural design for expense reimbursement application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing expense reimbursement. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Expense and Reimbursement Management process component, a Due Item Processing process component, a Payment Processing process component, a Payroll Processing process component, and an Accounting process component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401936&OS=08401936&RS=08401936
owner: SAP AG
number: 08401936
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071231
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for expense reimbursement.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems may require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for an expense reimbursement software application.

In various aspects the software architecture design can be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing expense reimbursement. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service operations each implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Expense and Reimbursement Management process component a Due Item Processing process component a Payment Processing process component a Payroll Processing process component and an Accounting process component.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in the expense reimbursement design includes five deployment units an Expense and Reimbursement Management deployment unit a Due Item Management deployment unit a Payment deployment unit a Payroll deployment unit and a Financial Accounting deployment unit .

The Expense and Reimbursement Management deployment unit includes an Expense and Reimbursement Management process component that involves the management and or monitoring of expenses incurred by employees and or the reimbursement of such expenses to employees. In some implementations it comprises the process of verifying the validity of expenses submitted by internal or external employees settling the expenses in conformance with legal requirements and company policy reimbursing the expenses to the employees transferring the expenses to financial accounting and or transferring taxable amounts to payroll for internal employees.

The Due Item Management deployment unit includes a Due Item Processing process component that involves the collection management and or monitoring of trade receivables or payables and or corresponding sales tax or withholding tax.

The Payment deployment unit includes a Payment Processing process component that involves the processing and or management of all payments. The Payment Processing process component may also responsible for the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks and or provides the primary input for liquidity management.

The Payroll deployment unit includes a Payroll Processing process component that involves the execution and or monitoring of regular and or off cycle payroll processes. The processes may include completeness checks of payroll relevant employee data the payroll run itself verification of the results and or the transfer to financial accounting.

The Financial Accounting deployment unit includes an Accounting process component that records business transactions for valuation and or profitability analysis.

A number of external process components described below may be used to describe the architectural design. These can include in some implementations a Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component and or a Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component .

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit .

It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent.

The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

Interactions Between Process Components Expense and Reimbursement Management and Due Item Processing 

As shown in the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component includes an Expense Report business object . The Expense Report business object may represent a list of receipts for the expenses incurred for the company within a certain period of time that are to be reimbursed to an expense reporter. In the case of a business trip it may also contain the reason for the trip and or general information such as destinations dates and times and or mileages.

The Expense Report business object may use a Notify of Settlement Result from Expense Report to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Settlement Result operation and or a Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation . The agent may invoke the Notify of Settlement Result operation to notify Receivables and Payables about the settlement results to reimburse for an expense. The agent may invoke the Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation to notify Receivables and Payables that an expense report was canceled. The operations and are included in a Receivables Payables Out interface . The operation may send a Receivables Payables Notification message . The operation may send a Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message .

The Receivables Payables Notification message may be received in a Create Receivables Payables operation . The Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message may be received in a Cancel Receivables Payables operation . The operations and are included in a Receivables Payables In interface . If the Receivables Payables Notification message is received then the Create Receivables Payables operation can in some implementations be performed to create a trade and or tax receivable or payable. If the Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message is received then the Cancel Receivables Payables operation can in some implementations be performed to cancel a trade and or tax receivable or payable. The operations and may use a Maintain Trade and Tax Receivables Payables inbound process agent to update one or more of three business objects such as a Trade Receivables Payables Register business object a Tax Receivables Payables Register business object and or a Due Clearing business object . The Trade Receivables Payables Register business object may represent the register of trade receivables and or payables of a company to or from its business partners. The Tax Receivables Payables Register business object may represent the register of tax receivables and or payables of a company for the delivered goods and or rendered services between buyers and sellers the consumption of goods the transfer of goods and or amounts withheld from payments to sellers. The Due Clearing business object may represent a group of receivables and or payables for clearing. Clearing can refer to the amounts of the receivables and or payables of a group balance to zero taking cash discounts and or other deductions into account. The group can be payments and or invoices that belong together but it can also be credit memos and or invoices or customer and or vendor invoices. A group can in some implementations result uniquely from the invoice reference information of a payment.

As shown in a bank statement may be created at a bank and an IT CBI Bank Account Statement Notification message with statement information may be generated. The IT CBI Bank Account Statement Notification message may use Mapping Entity to transform the IT CBI formatted message to a Bank Account Statement Notification message . The message can in some implementations be received in the Payment Processing process component where a Create Bank Statement operation may be invoked to create a bank statement. The Create Bank Statement operation is included in a Payment Processing Incoming Payment Advicing In interface . A Maintain Bank Statement inbound process agent may update a House Bank Statement business object by for example creating a new bank statement. The House Bank Statement business object may represent a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues items within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and or closing balance.

The Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component may receive information from an IT CBI Notify Of Bank Account Statement communication channel template . The communication channel template can in some implementations provide information from an external party about a bank statement.

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes the Due Clearing business object a Due Payment business object a Product Tax Declaration business object a Withholding Tax Declaration business object and a Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Clearing business object may represent a group of receivables and or payables for clearing. The Due Payment business object may represent a payment request and or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The Product Tax Declaration business object may represent a declaration of the product tax payables and or receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and or country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority if required. The Withholding Tax Declaration business object may represent a declaration of withholding tax payables of a company to a tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and or country specific legal requirements. The Tax Due Payment business object may represent a payment request and or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Clearing business object may use a Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation and or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface .

The Due Payment business object may use a Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Product Tax Declaration business object may use a Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Withholding Tax Declaration business object may use a Notify of Payment from Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Tax Due Payment business object may use a Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Notify of Payment operation may be invoked if a VAT value added tax declaration is released. The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation may be invoked if the VAT declaration is cancelled.

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Accounting Notification message . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

The Payment Accounting Notification message may be received in a Create Accounting Document operation . The Create Accounting Document operation may handle the Payment Accounting Notification message . The Create Accounting Document operation is included in a Payment Accounting In interface .

The Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message may be received in a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The Cancel Accounting Document operation may handle the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The Cancel Accounting Document operation is included in the Payment Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation may both use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update an Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object may represent a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object may represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and may include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Order Processing at House Bank 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Payment Order business object . The Bank Payment Order business object may represent an order to a house bank to make a transfer and or direct debit from a specified house bank account to fulfill a payment order. The house bank can be a bank located in France.

The Bank Payment Order business object may use a Request File Based Payment Order from Bank Payment Order to House Bank outbound process agent to invoke a Request File based Payment Order operation . The Request File based Payment Order operation may instruct a house bank using a file to make a bank transfer and or a direct debit. The operation is included in a Payment Ordering Out interface . The Request File based Payment Order operation may generate a File based Collective Payment Order Request message . The File based Collective Payment Order Request message may use Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Collective Payment Order Request message that can be received by the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Collective Payment Order Request message may be in a format that the house bank a bank located in France can understand. A collective payment order may be an instruction based on a file transfer to a credit institution to carry out one or more payment transactions e.g. bank transfers or direct debits . The Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component may receive information from a Payment Order Request communication channel template . The communication channel template may provide information from a third party about a payment order request.

As shown in the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component includes the Expense Report business object . The Expense Report business object may represent a list of receipts for the expenses incurred for the company within a certain period of time that are to be reimbursed to an expense reporter. In the case of a business trip it may also contain the reason for the trip and general information such as destinations dates and times and or mileages.

The Expense Report business object may use a Notify of Settlement Result from Expense Report to Payroll Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Settlement Result operation and or a Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation . The agent may invoke the Notify of Settlement Result operation to notify Payroll about settlement results in order to handle all amounts subject to taxation. The agent may invoke the Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation to notify Payroll about the cancellation of settlement results in order to handle all amounts subject to taxation.

The operations and are included in a Receivables Payables Out interface . The operation may send a Receivables Payables Notification message . The operation may generate a Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message .

The Receivables Payables Notification message may be received in a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result operation . The Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message may be received in a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in an Expense Report in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface . If the Receivables Payables Notification message is received then the Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result operation may be performed to create a trade and or tax receivable or payable. If the Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message is received then the Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result Cancellation operation may be performed to cancel a trade and or tax receivable or payable. The operations and may use a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Expense Report Settlement Result inbound process agent to update one or more of six business objects including a DE Employee Payroll Input business object a US Employee Payroll Input business object a CN Employee Payroll Input business object an FR Employee Payroll Input business object a GB Employee Payroll Input business object and or an IT Employee Payroll Input business object . The DE Employee Payroll Input business object may represent a summary of all employee specific input for German payroll for one employee. The US Employee Payroll Input business object may represent a summary of all employee specific input for US payroll for one employee. The CN Employee Payroll Input business object may represent a summary of all employee specific input for Chinese payroll for one employee. The FR Employee Payroll Input business object may represent a summary of all employee specific input for French payroll for one employee. The GB Employee Payroll Input business object may represent a summary of all employee specific input for Great Britain payroll for one employee. The IT Employee Payroll Input business object may represent a summary of all employee specific input for Italian payroll for one employee.

As shown in the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component includes the Expense Report business object . The Expense Report business object may represent a list of receipts for the expenses incurred for the company within a certain period of time that are to be reimbursed to an expense reporter. In the case of a business trip it may also contain the reason for the trip and general information such as destinations dates and times and or mileages.

The Expense Report business object may use a Notify of Settlement Result from Expense Report to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Settlement Result operation and or a Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation . The agent may invoke the Notify of Settlement Result operation to notify Accounting about the settlement results to post the costs of an expense report. The agent may invoke the Notify of Settlement Result Cancellation operation to notify Accounting that an expense report was canceled. The operations and are included in an Expense Accounting Out interface . The operation may send an Expense Report Accounting Notification message . The operation may generate an Expense Report Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

The Expense Report Accounting Notification message may be received in a Create Accounting Document operation . The Create Accounting Document operation may handle the Expense Report Accounting Notification message . The Create Accounting Document operation is included in an Expense Accounting In interface .

The Expense Report Cancellation Accounting Notification message may be received in a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The Cancel Accounting Document operation may handle the Expense Report Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The Cancel Accounting Document operation may included in the Expense Accounting In interface .

The Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation may both use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Expense inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object may represent a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object may represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and or can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Incoming Check business object a Check Deposit business object the Payment Order business object the House Bank Statement business object a Payment Allocation business object a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object a Bill of Exchange Deposit business object a Cash Transfer business object and a Payment Advice business object . The Incoming Check business object may represent a check issued by a business partner payable to the company. The Check Deposit business object may represent a deposit of checks at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Payment Allocation business object may represent an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. The Payment Order business object may represent an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. For example a payment order may be a collective order that includes several individual orders. The House Bank Statement business object may represent a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues items within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance. The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object may represent a bill of exchange issued either by the company or by a business partner for the benefit of the company. The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object may represent a deposit of bills of exchange receivable at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Cash Transfer business object may represent a company internal money transfer that can include the following payments from one house bank account to another house bank account transfer from one cash storage to another cash transfer from a cash storage to a house bank account cash deposit and or from a house bank account to a cash storage cash withdrawal . The Payment Advice business object may represent an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons.

The Incoming Check business object may use a Notify of Payment from Incoming Check to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Payment operation and or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface .

The Check Deposit business object may use a Notify of Payment from Check Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Order business object may use a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The House Bank Statement business object may use a Notify of Payment from Bank Statement to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Allocation business object may use a Notify of Payment from Payment Allocation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object may use a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object may use a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Cash Transfer business object may use a Notify of Payment Cash Transfer to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

The Payment Advice business object may use a Notify of Payment Advice to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke the Notify of Payment operation and or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation .

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Accounting Notification message . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

A Create Accounting Document operation may receive the Payment Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation may receive the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface . The operations and may use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object may represent a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object may represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and or can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked then the Payment Accounting Notification message may send to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message may send to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes the Due Payment business object the Product Tax Declaration business object and the Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Payment business object may represent a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The Product Tax Declaration business object may represent a declaration of the product tax payables and receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and or country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority. The Tax Due Payment business object may represent a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Payment business object may use a Synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke one or more operations including a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation and or a Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation may request payment information with a provisional reservation of money in payment processing. The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation may request payment information with a change of provisional reservation of money in payment processing. The Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Cancellation operation may register a change of a provisional payment to the last transactional or saved state.

If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Order Reservation Request message . If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . If the Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message .

The Due Payment business object may also use a Request Payment from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment operation and or a Request Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in the Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment operation may send a request for payment to the Payment Processing process component . This may confirm a previously made provisional payment. The Request Payment Cancellation operation may cancel at least one provisional requested and or ordered payment. If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message may be generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation may generate a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Product Tax Declaration business object may use a Request Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation and or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked the Payment Order Request message may be generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation may generate the Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Tax Due Payment business object may use a Request Payment from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation and or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked the Payment Order Request message may be generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation may generate the Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

As shown in a Create Payment Reservation operation may receive the Payment Order Reservation Request message . The operation may use a synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to create change and or cancel a payment order for a reservation request. The synchronous inbound process agent may update the Payment Order business object . The Payment Order business object may represent an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. A payment order may be a collective order that includes several individual orders.

A Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation may receive a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . The operation may use the synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object .

A Change Payment Reservation operation may receive the Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message . A Create Payment Order operation may receive the Payment Order Request message . A Cancel Payment Order operation may receive the Payment Order Cancellation Request message . The operations and may use a Maintain Payment Order inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object . The Cancel Payment Order operation may cancel a previously sent payment request by reference. The Create Payment Order operation may create a request for payment. The Change Payment Reservation operation may change a reservation of payment without confirmation to the caller. The operations and are included in a Payment Request In interface .

The Payment Order business object may use a Confirm Payment Request from Payment Order to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Payment Request operation . The operation may confirm a processing status of a payment to a sender. The operation is included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Confirm Payment Request operation may generate a Payment Order Confirmation message .

As shown in the Payment Order Confirmation message may be received in a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation . The operation may confirm the execution of a payment request or a payment request cancellation. The operation is included in a Payment Request In interface . The Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation may use a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Due Payment business object .

The Create Payment Reservation operation shown in may send a Payment Order Reservation Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message may be a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation .

The Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation shown in may send a Payment Order Reservation Change Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message may be a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation .

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file.

A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the software architecture design or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the software architecture design. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

