---

title: Systems and methods for mobile data storage and acquisition
abstract: Various data acquisition, storage and/or distribution systems and devices are described herein. As one example, a mobile data acquisition and distribution device is described. The device includes a non-volatile storage medium, a wireless interface, and a processor. The non-volatile storage medium includes instructions executable by the processor to: receive a user data set, and to store the user data set to the non-volatile storage medium. The instructions are further executable by the processor to receive a request initiated through a remote user interface via the wireless interface. Where the request is to provide the user data set to a recipient device, the instructions are further executable by the processor to provide the user data set to the recipient device via the wireless interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301195&OS=08301195&RS=08301195
owner: Agere Systems Inc.
number: 08301195
owner_city: Allentown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070625
---
The present application claims priority to is a non provisional filing of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 806 610 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE DATA STORAGE AND ACQUISITION and filed Jul. 5 2006 by Al Refaee et al. U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 829 007 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE DATA STORAGE AND ACQUISITION and filed Oct. 11 2006 by Al Refaee et al. and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 869 453 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE DATA STORAGE AND ACQUISITION and filed Dec. 11 2006 by Al Refaee et al. Each of the aforementioned applications is assigned to an entity common hereto and is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Further the present application is related to the following patent applications filed on a date even herewith PCT Application No. PCT US07 71989 entitled Systems and Methods for Implementing Hands Free Operational Environments and filed by Bahram et al. PCT Application No. PCT US07 71991 entitled Systems and Methods for Multiport Communication Distribution and filed by Haddad et al. PCT Application No. PCT US07 71994 entitled Systems and Methods for Power Management in Relation to a Wireless Storage Device and filed by Warren et al. PCT Application No. PCT US07 72000 entitled Systems and Methods for Enabling Consumption of Copy Protected Content Across Multiple Devices and filed by Al Refaee et al. and PCT Application No. PCT US07 72003 entitled Systems and Methods for Multi user Access to a Wireless Storage Device and filed by Al Refaee et al. All of the aforementioned related applications are assigned to an entity common hereto and are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present invention is generally related to devices and methods for distributing data and in particular to systems and methods for storing and distributing data in a wireless mobile environment.

The computer architecture with a central processor governing a local data repository has been a standard in computing for decades. The architecture utilizes a central repository that is perceived as a slave to an associated processor. The processor governs the central repository by commanding storage and retrieval of information from the central storage on demand. This architecture has been modified over the decades to increase accessibility by the governing processor by for example providing separate instruction and data repositories and providing sophisticated caching and other hierarchical access schemes. Other more dramatic changes have included adding separately accessed memories for specialized functions such as for example the graphics function in a personal computer. While these changes have aided in throughput the integrity of the standard architecture with a data depository maintained on demand of a central processor has been maintained.

A myriad of devices utilizing the familiar processor and memory structure have been developed. For example a number of application devices including audio recorders audio players cellular telephones video players video game devices video recorders and the like have been developed that include a central memory local to the particular device and operating as a slave to a governing processor within the device. Such devices have proliferated in the market and have satisfied a continuing consumer demand. However the growth of digital rights management has exposed various limitations of a data repository governed by a local processor. In particular digital content providers are willing to sell content to consumers and allow the consumers to maintain and use the content for as long as the consumer desires. This promise however has proven to be somewhat illusory as digital rights management often limits the use of purchased content to a device on which the content was originally deployed. Thus for example a consumer may purchase a particular ring tone from a content provider and download the purchased ring tone to a cellular telephone. The consumer may then use the ring tone as long as the consumer continues to use the cellular telephone. Once the cellular telephone is replaced the consumer is forced to re purchase the ring tone. As cellular telephones are replaced approximately every two years a consumer is never able to realize the promise of content use for as long as the consumer desires. A consumer may seek to avoid this effect by moving the ring tone to the newly purchased cellular telephone but such is typically both technically challenging and illegal.

In addition while a number of application devices including the aforementioned devices have proven capabilities as stand alone devices the interoperability of such devices has and continues to leave much to be desired. For starters interconnection of the various devices is often a complicated process. Each of the devices may utilize a different interface type and in some cases the interface may be proprietary. This has left a consumer in what feels like a hopeless morass of wires and interface connectors. Personal computer manufacturers are now offering machines that include a variety of interface ports accessible on the front panel of the machines and operating system developers have long envisioned a common grouping of drivers for different types of devices. While these efforts have aided interoperability they have had the deleterious effect of forcing a consumer to maintain a personal computer as a hub for the myriad of application devices operated by the consumer. This has at times proven to be cumbersome expensive and otherwise undesirable to the consumer.

One possible solution is to increase the capability of various application devices to avoid the need to use a personal computer as an interoperability hub. Such an approach has proven effective from a technical standpoint in limited circumstances. However such an approach requires a substantial distribution and replication of processor capability. This results in both increased complexity and costs. As most application devices are very cost sensitive it is unlikely that such an approach will find a business model that supports its use as a general solution.

Hence for at least the aforementioned reasons there exists a need in the art for advanced devices and methods for connectivity interoperability data storage data retrieval and or data acquisition.

The present invention is generally related to devices and methods for distributing data and in particular to systems and methods for storing and distributing data in a wireless mobile environment.

Various embodiments of the present invention provide an intelligent data repository that is capable of binding to a variety of mobile and or fixed application devices and performing data storage and retrieval in relation to the bound devices. In some cases intelligent data repositories are referred to herein as Universal Mobile Connected Storage UMCS devices. Through use of the aforementioned intelligent data repository the autonomy of data maintained on the repository is increased when compared with the traditional computer architecture where memory access is governed by a processor local to the application device. Indeed in some cases such an approach eliminates or reduces the need for sophisticated processor control in various interoperating application devices that are bound to the intelligent data repository.

In some cases of the aforementioned embodiments transmission from the intelligent data repository is accomplished via a wireless interface allowing for increased interoperability and user friendliness. In particular instances a single antenna is provided such that wireless communication is limited to one interoperable device at a time. In other instances multiple antennae or a single multiplexed antenna is provided such that interoperability can be performed in relation to multiple application devices at any given time.

In various cases of the aforementioned embodiments the intelligent data repository is a highly mobile stand alone device with capability to auto detect bind and authorize devices that come into proximity to the intelligent repository. As such various instances of the aforementioned embodiments are deployed as stand alone devices that may be used in relation to any number of different interoperable application devices. In other cases an intelligent repository in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention is deployed in relation to a particular consumer device. For example an intelligent repository may be deployed as part of a cellular telephone or in conjunction with a cellular telephone. As such the ubiquitous nature of a cellular telephone provides a unique opportunity to interact with the intelligent data repository using the user interface of the cellular telephone. This limits the need for an extensive user interface on the intelligent data repository. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a myriad of application devices with which an intelligent data repository in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention may be deployed.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide systems for maintaining and distributing reusable content objects. Such systems include one or more mobile application devices that each includes a processor that is operable to utilize a user data set in a particular application and a mobile storage device that is communicably coupled to the mobile application device via a wireless interface. The wireless interface may be but is not limited to a Bluetooth wireless interface or an 802.11 compliant interface. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of wireless interfaces that may be used in relation to embodiments of the present invention. The mobile storage device includes a memory system with a non volatile storage medium and a processor. The non volatile storage medium may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive and or a flash memory.

The memory system includes instructions executable by the processor of the mobile storage device to store the user data set in the non volatile storage medium receive a request to provide the user data set to the mobile application device and provide the user data set to the mobile application device via the wireless interface. In some instances of the aforementioned embodiments the system further includes a graphical user interface that is incorporated with the mobile application device. In such cases the graphical user interface operates as a remote graphical user interface for the mobile storage device. In various cases the memory system includes instructions further executable by the processor to receive the user data set from an identified source that is different from the mobile data storage device and the mobile application device. The mobile application device may be for example an audio player such as a headset or an MP3 player a video player such as an MPEG player or a cellular telephone.

In one particular instance of the aforementioned embodiments the mobile application device is the cellular telephone that includes a graphical user interface. In such a case the graphical user interface of the cellular telephone operates as a remote graphical user interface for the mobile storage device. One or more operations of the mobile storage device may be controllable via the remote graphical user interface. For example an operation governing transfer of data between the mobile storage device and another mobile application device may be controlled via the graphical user interface. As another example an operation controlling the connection of another mobile application device to the mobile storage device may be controlled through use of the remote graphical interface.

Other embodiments of the present invention provide mobile data acquisition and distribution devices. Such devices include a memory system with a non volatile storage medium a wireless interface and a processor. The memory system includes instructions executable by the processor to receive a user data set and to store the user data set to the non volatile storage medium. The instructions are further executable to receive a request initiated through a remote user interface via the wireless interface to provide the user data set to a recipient device and provide the user data set to the recipient device via the wireless interface. In some instances of the aforementioned embodiments at least the non volatile storage medium and the processor are enclosed in a case including a limited input output functionality. Such limited input output functionality includes three or fewer switches. Such switches may be for example slide switches push buttons or rocker switches. One of the aforementioned switches may be a power switch while another of the buttons may be an on off switch for a transmitter associated with the wireless interface.

In some instances of the aforementioned embodiments the recipient device is a mobile application device and the remote user interface is a graphical user interface integrated with the mobile application device. In such instances the instructions are further executable by the processor to provide a menu list to the graphical user interface. In other instances the recipient device may be one mobile application device and the remote user interface may be a graphical user interface integrated with another mobile application device. In such cases the instructions may still be executable to provide a menu list to the graphical user interface.

Yet other embodiments of the present invention provide mobile storage devices that include a storage medium a wireless interface and a processor. The storage medium includes instructions executable by the processor to provide a menu of data available on the storage medium to a user interface via the wireless interface receive a control direction from the mobile application device and execute the control instruction. The aforementioned user interface is integrated into a mobile application device.

This summary provides only a general outline of some embodiments according to the present invention. Many other objects features advantages and other embodiments of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following detailed description the appended claims and the accompanying drawings.

The present invention is generally related to devices and methods for distributing data and in particular to systems and methods for storing and distributing data in a wireless mobile environment.

Turning to a diagram depicts an exemplary content usage network in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention. Exemplary content usage network includes a Universal Mobile Connected Storage device UMCS at the core thereof. UMCS is able to receive content from one or more online and wireless content providers as well as from various self maintained content equipment such as for example audio recorders and video recorders. In some cases UMCS may be intermittently wired to a personal computer via a cable . In such cases UMCS may be configured via personal computer using the standard I O interfaces associated with personal computer . For the purposes of this document personal computer is considered a fixed or wired application device. Alternatively UMCS may be communicably coupled to personal computer via a wireless network . In such cases UMCS may be configured via personal computer . It should be noted however that UMCS may be configured using one or more of the other application devices discussed in the succeeding paragraphs.

Wireless network may be any wireless network known in the art. Thus for example wireless network may be but is not limited to a Bluetooth network as is known in the art. It should be noted that while UMCS may be configured across wireless network using the user interface of another application device and it may also be configured using other approaches. Thus for example UMCS may be self configuring. In such a case UMCS is implemented with enough intelligence to auto detect an available wireless network as well as devices attached via the wireless network. As a particular example UMCS may be implemented such that when power is applied to the device it automatically scans for Bluetooth devices that are within range of UMCS . Based on the detected Bluetooth devices UMCS may form a service offering as is more fully discussed below.

UMCS is capable of interacting with various devices and classes of devices via wireless network . For example in some cases UMCS is operable to interact directly with UMCS enabled application devices via wireless network . Such UMCS enabled application devices include capability to authenticate to UMCS and to accept and transfer information from to UMCS and to provide digital rights management whereby content is secured not only in the transfer between UMCS and the UMCS enabled application device but is also maintained secure within the UMCS enabled application device. In the situation where wireless network is a Bluetooth network the aforementioned UMCS enabled application devices would include Bluetooth capability.

As suggested above one or more embodiments of the present invention may incorporate functionality that allows it to distribute copy protected content across multiple application devices while maintaining the integrity of the copy protection. Some examples of accessing and distributing copy protected content are disclosed in the application entitled Systems and Methods for Enabling Consumption of Copy Protected Content Across Multiple Devices that was previously incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

In some cases the UMCS enabled application devices include the ability to decode content objects received from UMCS . In such cases UMCS may include the ability to unwrap i.e. satisfy any digital rights management requirements content accessed from a storage medium incorporated within UMCS . Further UMCS includes capability to transmit the unwrapped content to the enabled recipient device. In such cases the enabled recipient device would decode the received content and assure security thereof. In some cases the decoding algorithm is provided to the enabled device from UMCS and in other cases the decoding algorithm is maintained on the enabled recipient device and is selected in relation to the received content from UMCS . UMCS enabled application devices include but are not limited to a UMCS enabled digital audio player a UMCS enabled digital still camera a UMCS enabled digital video recorder a UMCS enabled television a UMCS enabled set top box a UMCS enabled video cassette player a UMCS enabled digital audio recorder a UMCS enabled cellular telephone and a UMCS enabled GPS receiver . Based on this disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of interactions between UMCS and UMCS enabled application devices in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention. For example in some of the aforementioned cases UMCS may not include the ability to unwrap content but rather the recipient UMCS enabled application device may include the capability to unwrap any content provided from UMCS . Further based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of other UMCS enabled application devices that may be used in relation to one or more embodiments of the present invention.

In various cases UMCS is operable to interact directly with non UMCS enabled application devices via wireless network . In such cases either UMCS includes capability to tailor output and receive input from the non UMCS enabled application device or the non UMCS enabled application devices may interact with UMCS via a specialized UMCS converter that is tailored for operation with a class of devices. Thus for example where wireless network is a Bluetooth network the UMCS converter may be enabled to receive from and provided information to a non UMCS enabled application device via any one of a number of communication approaches and to communicate the information to from UMCS using a Bluetooth protocol. As an example UMCS may interact with digital audio devices e.g. a digital audio player and a digital audio recorder via a UMCS digital audio converter . As another example a cellular telephone or personal digital assistant not shown may interact with UMCS either directly or via a UMCS audio video converter . As yet another example UMCS may interact with video devices e.g. a set top box a video cassette player a digital video recorder and a television via a UMCS digital video converter . As yet a further example UMCS may interact with still image devices such as a digital still camera or a printer not shown via a UMCS digital image converter . As yet another example UMCS may interact with a GPS receiver display via a UMCS GPS converter .

In such cases decoding of content accessed from a storage medium included in UMCS is done using a decoder provided in the respective UMCS converters . Thus the content is unwrapped by UMCS and the unwrapped content is provided to the particular UMCS converter via wireless network . The UMCS converter decodes the content and provides it to the appropriate recipient device while at the same time assuring that any demanded digital rights management is maintained. In some cases the various UMCS converters may be implemented as dongles associated with one or more recipient devices.

In other cases UMCS incorporates the decoding function. In such cases UMCS authenticates the device to which content is to be transferred accesses content maintained on a storage medium associated with UMCS unwraps the retrieved content decodes the unwrapped content and transfers the decoded content to the recipient device. In such a case UMCS may include a number of standard decoders installed on UMCS . Alternatively in some cases UMCS may download an appropriate decoder from a UMCS enabled application device or from a UMCS converter.

In various cases UMCS is operable to interact directly with non UMCS enabled application devices via a UMCS composite converter . UMCS composite converter is operable to provide for UMCS interaction with multiple classes of recipient devices. Thus for example where wireless network is a Bluetooth network UMCS composite converter may be enabled to receive from and provided information to different classes of non UMCS enabled application devices via any one of a number of communication approaches and to communicate the information to from UMCS using a Bluetooth protocol. As an example UMCS composite converter may couple UMCS to for example a digital audio player a digital video recorder a television a set top box a digital still camera a video cassette player a digital audio recorder a cellular telephone and a GPS receiver or some combination of the aforementioned device classes. In such cases decoding of content accessed from a storage medium included in UMCS is done using a decoder provided in UMCS composite converter . Thus the content is unwrapped by UMCS and the unwrapped content is provided to the UMCS composite converter via wireless network . UMCS composite converter decodes the content and provides it to the appropriate recipient device while at the same time assuring that any demanded digital rights management is maintained. In some cases UMCS composite converter may be implemented as a dongle associated with one or more recipient devices.

In some instances of the aforementioned embodiments UMCS includes an ability to detect wireless network and UMCS enabled application devices associated with wireless network . Further UMCS is capable of binding the detected device s through a process of authenticating the detected network devices and for automatically providing access to from the detected devices. Where for example wireless network is a Bluetooth network the process of detecting binding and authenticating may be satisfied in accordance with the Bluetooth specification. In such cases UMCS may also be brought into proximity of a router not shown personal computer and or some UMCS enabled display device. In such cases UMCS is operable to display its contents and bound devices in one of a variety of ways. For example UMCS may be displayed as a drive attached to personal computer with content thereon as well as devices bound thereto being displayed as available content. Where the content is displayed on a bound device only capable of handling certain content types the displayed content may be limited to only that which is germane to the proximate device. Thus for example it may be that only audio content may be displayed to an audio player. In such a case video or other content types may be hidden from the audio player.

Interaction of the devices set forth above in relation to may be facilitated by an application programming interface API . Such an API allows for communication between various device classes. In some cases the interaction may occur regardless of the operating system or other operational details related to both the UMCS and the application device. In some cases the UMCS of may be accessed by more than a single user. Such access may include use of various authorization and or authentication techniques. Exemplary approaches to such multi user access are discussed in the application entitled Systems and Methods for Multi user Access to a Wireless Storage Device that was previously incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Turning to a mobile data acquisition storage and or distribution system mobile storage system in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention is depicted. Mobile storage system includes a UMCS communicably coupled to a mobile application device via a wireless network . Wireless network may be any wireless network capable of transferring information between UMCS and mobile application device . Thus for example wireless network may be but is not limited to a Bluetooth network or a Wi Fi network that is for example 802.11 compliant. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of wireless networks that may be used in relation to one or more embodiments of the present invention. In some embodiments communication between UMCS and mobile application device is accomplished directly between the two devices without utilizing an intervening wired hub.

UMCS includes a memory system that includes both application memory and user data memory . As used herein the phrase application memory is used in its broadest sense to mean memory allocated to include software or firmware applications. As known in the art such software and firmware applications include instructions executable by a processor to perform one of a number of desired operations. As used herein the phrase user data memory is used in its broadest sense to mean any memory allocated for data other than application data. Thus for example user data memory may store but is not limited to audio files video files documents and other types of user data. As is more fully discussed below in relation to memory system may be implemented with one or both of volatile and non volatile memory media. As used herein the phrase non volatile memory is used in its broadest sense to mean any memory that maintains its contents when power is removed from the memory. As used herein the phrase volatile memory is used in its broadest sense to mean any memory that does not maintain its contents when power is removed from the memory.

UMCS also includes a memory access system that may be any circuitry and or programmable controller that provides for access to and from memory system . UMCS also includes a processor that is capable of directing operation of UMCS . In one particular case processor is capable of accessing application memory that includes instructions executable by processor to receive a user data set via wireless distribution interface store the user data set to memory system receive a request initiated through a remote user interface to provide the user data set to a recipient device and provide the user data set to the recipient device via the wireless interface. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a myriad of instructions that maybe executable by processor to cause any of a number of operations to be performed by UMCS .

UMCS further includes a wireless interface that includes a wireless distribution interface and an antenna . Wireless distribution interface includes all of the circuitry required to format data for transmission via a wireless protocol recognized by wireless network . Thus where wireless network is a Bluetooth network wireless distribution interface may be any Bluetooth interface for transferring data between UMCS and wireless network . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art where wireless network uses another wireless protocol wireless distribution interface may be any interface capable of transferring data between UMCS and wireless network using the other interface protocol.

It should be noted that while mobile storage system may include any number of application devices mobile application device is examplary of such application devices that are communicably coupled to UMCS via wireless interface . In some cases one or more of the aforementioned application devices may be mobile application devices while others are wired application devices. As used herein the phrase mobile application device is used in its broadest sense to mean any electronic device capable of implementing one or more applications without being wired to any other device or power source. Thus for example a mobile application device may be but is not limited to a cellular telephone a wireless headset a personal digital assistant a laptop computer an MP3 player and a mobile DVD player. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of mobile application devices that may be used in relation to one or more embodiments of the present inventions.

Mobile application device includes a wireless interface that comprises a wireless network interface and an antenna . Wireless network interface may be any wireless interface known in the art that is capable of transferring data between mobile application device and another device on wireless network . Mobile application device also includes a processor that controls operation of the device. Mobile application device includes a memory system comprising a cache a random access memory and a non volatile random access memory . Further mobile application device includes a variety of input output services including a graphical user interface controller an audio controller and a USER I O controller . Graphical user interface controller supports a graphical user interface that may be integrated with mobile application device . Audio controller supports an audio input device such as microphone and an audio output device such as speaker . User I O controller supports a keyboard and in some cases a mouse or pen interface device as are known in the art.

Turning to a flow diagram illustrates a method in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention for operating a UMCS device. Following flow diagram UMCS identifies one or more known application devices within wireless range block and binds itself to the identified devices such that communication between the devices is enabled block . In this example the identified device includes a graphical user interface. As one example UMCS may be programmed to automatically connect to a particular cellular telephone or a mobile media player using a Bluetooth network. In such a case when UMCS identifies the cellular telephone or mobile media player it establishes a communication link between UMCS and the particular device.

Later UMCS receives a request to connect from another unknown or otherwise unauthorized application device block . Such a request may be from another device capable of communicating via the wireless network on which UMCS is communicating. Thus for example a car stereo may be within range and may desire a communication link between it and UMCS . Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of application devices that may request a connection with UMCS . A command representing the received connection request is uploaded from UMCS to the previously bound known application device including a graphical user interface block . The command causes a graphical request to be displayed to the user via the graphical user interface of the known application device block . The user then responds to the request using the graphical user interface of the known application device block . As indicated by the dashed line around an area the operations of block and block are performed on the known application device. The response to the command is then transferred to UMCS block .

Where the request was denied by the user block a corresponding denial of the request to connect is issued block . Alternatively where the request is granted by the user block a communication link is established between the requesting device and UMCS block . In turn the requesting device may ask for a menu of operations available from UMCS block . Thus for example where the requesting device is an MP3 audio player it may request a list of all music maintained in the memory system of UMCS . As another example where the requesting device is a video player it may request a list of all of the video clips maintained in the memory system of UMCS . Based on this request UMCS determines what operations are to be made available to the requesting device and a menu of contents or operations available to the requesting device are provided as a command to the graphical user interface of the known application device block .

This menu of available operations is displayed using the graphical user interface of the known application device block and the user enters their selection s from the list via the graphical user interface block . As indicated by the dashed line around an area the operations of block and block are performed on the known application device. The response from the user is then transferred to UMCS block . UMCS then executes the user selection block . Thus for example where the user selects a particular music file the selected music file is accessed from the memory system of UMCS and transferred to the requesting device via a wireless network. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a myriad of devices that may bind to UMCS and thereafter be controlled via a graphical user interface of another device bound to UMCS . Further one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a myriad of commands and or selections that may be received by UMCS from a variety of sources and handled using the graphical user interface of another connected application device.

Based on the aforementioned discussion one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that UMCS may be designed without a graphical user interface and may include functionality allowing it to bind to another device that includes a graphical user interface and to utilize that graphical user interface. In some cases UMCS may be encased in such a way that when operated wirelessly only a very limited user interface is available directly on UMCS . This limited user interface may include three or fewer switches e.g. selector buttons rocker switches slide switches or the like . As an example one of the buttons may be a power on button and another may be operable to turn off the wireless interface when for example power consumption is to be limited or interference concerns exist. Turning to an exemplary case for UMCS including only a limited user interface is shown. As shown case includes a hard shell with a power switch as shown it is a button but could be any other switch type and a wireless switch as shown it is a button but could be any other switch type . Also one or more electrical interfaces are included to allow for wired connection via for example a USB interface or for receiving for example a memory card. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art based on the disclosure provided herein the lack of a graphical display reduces the cost and increases the durability of case .

In some cases an application interface API including a number of software instructions executable to access UMCS may be defined. As one of many examples the following command set may be defined to access UMCS 

Turning to a UMCS in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention is depicted. UMCS includes a hard disk drive that is accessible to a processor via a hard disk drive interface . Hard disk drive interface may be any interface known in the art that allows for transferring data to and from hard disk drive . Further hard disk drive may be any hard disk drive known in the art. It should be noted that in various embodiments of the present invention that the hard disk drive can be replaced or augmented by a bank of solid state memory such as flash memory or some constantly powered random access memory. Indeed hard disk drive may be replaced or augmented by any non volatile memory known in the art. Where hard disk drive is replaced or augmented hard disk drive controller may correspondingly be replaced or modified to allow the transfer of data to or from the chosen non volatile storage medium.

In one particular case hard disk drive interface is a standard ATA interface and hard disk drive is an ATA hard disk drive. In addition UMCS includes multiple transmission paths each coupled to processor via a system bus . As depicted UMCS includes three distinct transmission paths each including a transmitter receiver electrically coupled to a respective antenna and a local buffering memory . It should be noted that UMCS may include more or fewer transmission paths depending upon the intended use and or design of UMCS . Some embodiments of the present invention utilize Bluetooth transmission paths. Such paths are low power paths that are useful for mobile devices that are expected to operate for many hours. Further such paths offer sufficient bandwidth for audio video streaming. For example in one particular embodiment of the present invention the combination of the transmission paths offers 1.5 Mbits sec. This level of bandwidth allows MPEG4 Divx content at full 720 380 resolution. Such transmission paths allows for operation in relation to various hard disk drives including one inch to 1.8 inch drives. It should be noted that while three separate antennae are shown that some embodiments may utilize a single antenna capable of use by all of the implemented transmission paths.

In other cases the bandwidth supported by the transmission paths is 1.5 Mbits sec per path. In yet other cases higher bandwidth transmission paths may be utilized. In some particular cases the bandwidth of one or more of transmission paths are less than 1 Mbit sec which is sufficient for use in relation with various consumer audio and phone devices. Particular embodiments of the present invention provides an overall bandwidth of 3 Mbit sec that is sufficient for a serial data stream and two to three audio streams simultaneously. Further some embodiments of the present invention incorporate a USB 2.0 port for high speed upload and download capability. In some cases the USB port is implemented as a wireless port while in other cases the USB port is a wired port. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of wireless transmission protocols that may be supported by one or more of transmission paths and the circuitry implemented to support such transmission paths.

UMCS also includes a memory system comprising a flash memory and a system memory electrically coupled to processor via system bus . It should be noted that based on the disclosure provided herein that one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of memory system designs that may be used depending upon the desired characteristics and operational requirements of the end device. Processor is also electrically coupled to an I O controller that in some cases is integrated into processor and in other cases is a separate device. I O controller provides capability for UMCS to interact via one or more of a USB bus a 1394 i.e. firewire bus a UART a keyboard a mouse and or a display. Interaction via a USB bus includes use of a USB PHY and USB connector . Interaction via 1394 includes use of a 1394 PHY and 1394 connector . Interaction via a UART includes use of a UART transmitter receiver . Interaction via a keyboard mouse and or display includes the appropriate connectors and internal drivers . UMCS further includes a power interface that is capable of regulating power from a rechargeable power source . Further UMCS may include an audio CODEC interface capable of providing audio in and out capabilities to UMCS through use of processor .

In operation a content object may be received via one of antennae and transferred to hard disk drive under direction of processor . In some cases multiple content objects may be received or transmitted by using multiple of antennas . Thus as just one particular example UMCS may be receiving a video content object from a content provider and transmitting the same video content object to a UMCS enabled television capable of decoding the content object. In such a case reception and buffering of the content object is performed by one of transmission paths and the received content is provided to hard disk drive under the direction of processor . At the same time the content object is retrieved by processor from hard disk drive and unwrapped using a digital rights management protocol indicated by the particular content. In addition processor authenticates the television via another of transmission paths and transmits the unwrapped content to the television. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of combinations of transmission and reception that are possible using UMCS devices in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. For example three content objects may be simultaneously received and stored or three content objects may be distributed simultaneously.

The interaction between flash memory hard disk drive and processor may be carefully tailored to assure power savings. Such power management is more fully discussed in the application entitled Systems and Methods for Power Management in Relation to a Wireless Storage Device that was previously incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Turning to a UMCS in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention is depicted. UMCS is similar to UMCS with the exception of an added specialized system processor in place of processor and decoder processor . Decoder processor is specifically added to perform any decoding encoding of data that may be needed in relation to information being maintained on hard disk drive . Decoder processor may be a DSP a CISC or a RISC processor. In one particular case decoder processor is a DSP and system processor is an ARM processor.

In operation a content object may be provided to a recipient device. In such a case the recipient device is authenticated by system processor via one of transmission paths . In turn the content object is retrieved from hard disk drive and unwrapped. The unwrapped content object is provided to decoder processor that proceeds to decode the unwrapped content object and to transmit the decoded content object to the recipient device via one of transmission paths . As with UMCS based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various transmission reception scenarios may be facilitated using UMCS . Further it will be recognized that multiple transmission paths receiving and or transmitting may be operating simultaneously.

Turning to a software package that may be used in relation to one or both of UMCS and UMCS is depicted. Software package includes both system software and decoder software . Decoder software includes a host interface module capable of governing the interaction between the host and decoder. Various buffer modules allow for interaction between host interface module and any number of decoders and or controller modules. For example the decoder controller modules may include but are not limited to CODECS such as an MP3 codec Optional Security such as AES security Mixers and volume control modules various DMA modules . In addition decoder software includes a system interface module API a real time kernel and various other utilities .

System software includes a VxWorks Kernel and various system services . System services may include but are not limited to diagnostic services boot and startup services DMA services configuration services interrupt services wireless network services display services wired communication services infrared transmission reception services I O services and hard disk drive access services . In addition system software includes networking services including RTP RTCP services DHCP services TCP IP services HTTP services and XML services. System software further includes wireless LAN configuration software system configuration software USB storage class software HTTP server software UPnP server software Samba file server software media file system software content database software a content navigation API transcoding software digital rights management software content import and management software and firmware upgrade software .

In one particular embodiment of the present invention the software stack supports the following profiles DVRCP A2DP FTP which dovetails nicely with USB and one or more video profiles. Software for the USB port may be configured to support two or more connected devices such that both a camera and a phone or some other combination of devices may be simultaneously connected to the UMCS. Further the software implemented on the UMCS may further include a file system that manages data stored and deleted from the storage media implemented in relation to the device. Further the UMCS may include a JAVA application tailored for controlling a cellular telephone. This JAVA application would allow a cellular telephone to wirelessly control the UMCS and utilize the UMCS as its storage portable PVR. In some cases the JAVA application may include DVB tuners that allow for data from the cellular telephone to be piped directly to the storage media through Bluetooth. Such an application may utilize compression to fit the transfer bandwidth to an acceptable bandwidth of the UMCS.

Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that different variants of UMCS devices in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention may be developed and deployed. For example some embodiments of the present invention provide a UMCS device that includes a wireless storage capability. Such a wireless storage capability may consist of a hard disk drive operated under the direction of an ARM processor that is accessible via for example an 802.11g n compliant wireless network. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other network protocols such as for example WIMAX UWB Bluetooth and or the like may also be implemented in relation to one or more embodiments of the present invention. The software may be implemented such that the UMCS is capable of binding to and interacting with a number of different devices that operate the Windows CE operating system. The only interface is a battery status indicator and a wireless interface allowing for configuration by a bound device. More advanced UMCS devices may include media encoding decoding services implementing multiple algorithms and may include a more sophisticated user interface with for example record and playback buttons. The user interface may be even further advanced to include an LCD. Yet more advanced UMCS devices may include backup archiving and synchronization capability making the UMCS operate very simply as an extension of another device. The UMCS may have advanced software capable of managing expired content objects providing Internet access and firewall capability. Further in some cases the UMCS device may include U3 capability. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other features that may be included with different embodiments of the present invention.

Turning to an exemplary UMCS in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention is depicted. As shown UMCS includes a storage component . Storage component may be but is not limited to a hard disk drive a block of flash memory and InPhase Holographic memory Random Access Memory combinations of the aforementioned and or the like. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other memory types that may be utilized in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention. UMCS further includes a file system manager that is operable to control reads from and writes to storage component . UMCS includes a Bluetooth wireless interface. Bluetooth wireless interfaces provide for short range communications intended to replace the cables connecting portable and or fixed electronic devices. The key advantages of Bluetooth wireless interfaces are robustness low power and low cost. A typical Bluetooth interface includes an antenna that operates as an RF transceiver a baseband protocol processor and a Bluetooth enhanced data rate PHY . A Bluetooth interface offers services that enable the connection of Bluetooth enabled devices and the exchange of a variety of data classes between the connected devices. The Bluetooth interface includes one or more Bluetooth ports and software firmware that allows UMCS to operate as a hub router for all connections in and out of storage component and as more fully described below as a hub router for a variety of connected Bluetooth devices that may or may not interact with storage component . UMCS may also be configured via the above mentioned Bluetooth interface.

UMCS also includes a flash or SDRAM cache that may be used to reduce latency in accessing storage component . Where storage component is implemented in Flash or SDRAM cache may be eliminated. Yet further UMCS includes a USB port that allows for access to storage component and or configuration of UMCS . UMCS may also include a power controller and a mobile power source . Baseband protocol processor may include ports and software firmware that allows it to operate as a hub router for all connections in and out of storage component .

In some embodiments of the present invention UMCS is augmented to include a multiport Bluetooth router. Such a multiport Bluetooth router allows for the cross connect of a number of Bluetooth devices. This can be particularly useful where a number of single port Bluetooth devices are to be used together in an overall system. Thus as just one example a typical cellular telephone includes a Bluetooth interface capable of connecting to a single Bluetooth device at a time. This interface has traditionally been used to transfer audio data to from a single a headset. It may be desirable however to not only transfer audio data to from a headset but to also provide an audio output to a car stereo and to receive dialing information from a personal digital assistant. Such a configuration is not practical as the above mentioned cellular telephone can only support one single Bluetooth connection at a time and changing between devices connected via the single Bluetooth port is cumbersome. Where the multiport Bluetooth router is incorporated into UMCS UMCS may be connected to the cellular telephone via one Bluetooth protocol interface supported by UMCS and that Bluetooth protocol interface may be cross connected to one or more other Bluetooth protocol interfaces that are in turn connected to respective Bluetooth devices. This allows for practical implementation the above mentioned exemplary configuration involving the cellular telephone car stereo and personal digital assistant. Among other things such an approach offers an advantage in a wireless communications market skewing toward low priced basic featured cellular telephones. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other applications for multiport Bluetooth routers in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Further it should be noted that while multiport Bluetooth routers in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention may be incorporated with a UMCS device other embodiments of the present invention provide multiport Bluetooth routers that do not include one or more features of a UMCS device as described herein.

Turning to a multiport Bluetooth router in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention is depicted. As previously discussed multiport Bluetooth router may be integrated into a UMCS device or may be implemented as a stand alone router device. Multiport Bluetooth router includes a number of Bluetooth pipes that are each coupled to a multiport processor . Each of the Bluetooth pipes includes a Bluetooth protocol interface that allows for the transfer of data two from a connected Bluetooth device. For example Bluetooth pipe is communicably coupled to a Bluetooth source destination . As used herein a Bluetooth source destination is any device that is capable of transferring data to and or from another Bluetooth device. Similarly Bluetooth pipe is communicably coupled to a Bluetooth source destination and Bluetooth pipe is communicably coupled to a Bluetooth source destination . Bluetooth pipe is communicably coupled to a Single Port Bluetooth device . As used herein a single port Bluetooth device is any device that supports connection with only one other Bluetooth device at a time. An example of such a single port device is a low cost cellular telephone that is implemented with only a single Bluetooth port. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure low cost single port Bluetooth devices may be extended to function as multiport Bluetooth devices where a stand alone multiport Bluetooth router hub is used in concert with the single port device. Further detail regarding a variety of multiport Bluetooth functionality that may be incorporated into one or more embodiments of the present invention is found in the application entitled Systems and Methods for Multiport Communication Distribution that was previously incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The various systems and methods for data storage and acquisition may be used in relation to a large number of use scenarios. For example various hands free environments may utilize one or more wireless memory devices. Examples of such user scenarios are more fully discussed in the application entitled Systems and Methods for Utilizing a Wireless Storage Device that was previously incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

In conclusion the present invention provides novel systems devices methods and arrangements for mobile data storage and acquisition. While detailed descriptions of one or more embodiments of the invention have been given above various alternatives modifications and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without varying from the spirit of the invention. Therefore the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims.

