---

title: Reducing mobile-terminated call set up by identifying and mitigating overlap between paging and system information broadcast
abstract: In a Universal Mobile Telecommunications (UMTS) system, a mobile device reads scheduling information for uplink interference (SIB7) from a Master Information Block, broadcasted on the Broadcast Channel (BCCH). The UE wakes up from the sleep during its periodic paging occasions and reads the paging indicator channel (PICH). If the UE needs to read the PCH, then the UE computes the timing of the next broadcast of SIB7 using the scheduling information broadcast in the MIB on BCCH. Knowing the timing of the next SIB7, the UE can determine if there is an overlap. If overlap is detected, the mobile device demodulates both the paging channel carried by the Secondary Common Control Physical Channel (S-CCPCH) and the broadcast channel carried by the Primary CCPCH, avoiding a mobile-terminated (MT) call setup delay by waiting for the next SIB7 broadcast, which depending upon a SIB7 repetition ranges from 360 msec to 2.56 seconds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07974643&OS=07974643&RS=07974643
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 07974643
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071102
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 865 124 entitled REDUCING MOBILE TERMINATED CALL SETUP TIME BY IDENTIFYING AND MITIGATING OVERLAP BETWEEN PAGING AND SYSTEM INFORMATION BROADCAST filed 9 Nov. 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This application relates in general to UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System and in particular to a method and apparatus for monitoring paging and broadcast system information in universal mobile telecommunications system user equipment.

In a typical cellular radio system mobile user equipment UE communicates via a radio access radio network RAN to one or more core networks. User equipment UE comprises various types of equipment such as mobile telephones also known as cellular or cell phones lap tops with wireless communication capability personal digital assistants PDAs etc. These may be portable hand held pocket sized installed in a vehicle etc and communicate voice and or data signals with the radio access network.

The radio access network covers a geographical area divided into a plurality of cell areas. Each cell area is served by at least one base station which may be referred to as a Node B. Each cell is identified by a unique identifier which is broadcast in the cell. The base stations communicate at radio frequencies over an air interface with the UEs within range of the base station. Several base stations may be connected to a radio network controller RNC which controls various activities of the base stations. The radio network controllers are typically connected to a core network.

UMTS is a third generation public land mobile telecommunication system. Various standardization bodies are known to publish and set standards for UMTS each in their respective areas of competence. For instance the 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project has been known to publish and set standards for GSM Global System for Mobile Communications based UMTS and the 3GPP2 Third Generation Partnership Project 2 has been known to publish and set standards for CDMA Code Division Multiple Access based UMTS. Within the scope of a particular standardization body specific partners publish and set standards in their respective areas.

Consider a wireless mobile device generally referred to as user equipment UE that complies with the 3GPP specifications for the UMTS protocol. The 3GPP 25.331 specification version 7.5.0 Release 7 referred to herein as the 25.331 specification addresses the subject of UMTS RRC Radio Resource Control protocol requirements between the UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN and the UE. Clause 8.5.7 of the 25.331 specification describes a protocol for open loop power control wherein system information from the network is used to calculate an appropriate transmit power level of a connection request message by the UE. One of the factors received is uplink interference contained in System Information Block 7 SIB7 broadcast by the network. The UE wakes up at regular intervals to monitor the paging indicator channel in order to be able to respond to an in bound call. In order to preserve battery service life the UE sleeps between these waking periods.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed versions. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such versions. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described versions in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

It has been realized that the priority given to monitoring the paging channel can collide with the need to monitor broadcasts of system information necessary for initiation of a call setup causing the need to wait for another broadcast of system information before proceeding. Being able to predict and remedy this situation can improve the user experience.

In one aspect a method for mobile terminated call setup in a mobile telecommunications system comprised of a network of a plurality of cells and at least one user equipment device reduces call setup time by avoiding missing a required system information block. In particular if there is a need to read a paging block on the paging channel the time of the next broadcast of the system information block carrying the uplink interference value is calculated. When an overlap between a required system information block and a paging block is predicted both the broadcast channel and the paging channel are simultaneously demodulated. Thereby a delay in call set up caused by the missed system information broadcasts is avoided. Moreover unnecessary simultaneous demodulation that occupies additional hardware at the cost of battery service life and or processing other communications is avoided unless the overlap occurs.

In other aspects a computer program product contains computer recorded medium having sets of code to cause a computer at least one processor contains modules and an apparatus contains means each for performing the method for mobile terminated call setup.

In another aspect an apparatus has a receiver for receiving broadcast system information on a broadcast channel and a paging indicator on a paging indicator channel. A processor calculates any overlap of an assigned paging block on a paging channel and a system information block required for call setup. An interface responds to an overlap prediction by simultaneously demodulating the broadcast channel and the paging channel to reduce call setup time.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more versions comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the versions may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed versions are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

In a Universal Mobile Telecommunications UMTS system UE wakes up from the sleep during its periodic paging occasions and reads the paging indicator channel PICH . PICH consists of many paging indicators belonging to different UEs that wake up at the same time. If the UE s paging indicator is detected as set by the network the UE needs to read the next paging block on the paging channel PCH in order to determine of there is a page from the network destined to the UE. If the paging indicator is detected as not set the UE does not need to read the PCH. If the UE reads the PCH and determines that there is a page destined to it the UE will respond to the page by initiating a mobile terminated call setup procedure. As a pre requisite for initiation of the call set up procedure the UE needs to have a valid value of the uplink interference which is broadcast by the network in the system information block 7 SIB7 on the broadacst common channel BCCH . The UE computes the timing of the next broadcast of SIB7 using the scheduling information broadcast in the master information block MIB on BCCH. Knowing the timing of the next SIB7 the UE can determine if there is an overlap between the paging block on the PCH and the SIB7 broadcast on the BCCH. If overlap is detected the mobile device will then take appropriate action to demodulate both the paging channel carried by the Secondary Common Control Physical Channel S CCPCH and the broadcast common channel carried by the Primary Common Control Physical Channel P CCPCH . The mobile device will therefore get the paging block as well as read the SIB7 even in the overlap scenario avoiding a mobile terminated MT call setup delay caused by waiting for the next SIB7 broadcast which depending upon a SIB7 repetition factor occurs every 360 msec to 2.56 seconds.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to concisely describing these versions.

The apparatus and methods are especially well suited for use in wireless environments but may be suited in any type of network environment including but not limited to communication networks public networks such as the Internet private networks such as virtual private networks VPN local area networks wide area networks long haul networks or any other type of data communication network.

In a mobile cellular system includes a mobile device depicted as user equipment UE that communicates via a wireless channel with a network base station receiver and a radio network controller RNC depicted together as a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Radio Access Technology RAN . As part of mobile terminated call setup procedure in particular Radio resource control RRC protocol under Clause 8.5.7 of the 25.331 specification the UE uses the Open Loop Power Control module to set a transmit power to a value appropriate so that reception of the initial connection request message occurs without undue interference to other devices. One factor in determining the proper transmit power is an amount of uplink interference that the UMTS RAN senses and stores in an uplink interference information element as part of system information data . The UMTS RAN disseminates this system information by a broadcast channel component . Information specific to a subset of UEs regarding incoming calls is sent over a paging channel component .

The UE employs the P CCPCH demodulation component to demodulate the P CCPCH and decode the BCCH data which includes the SIBs and the MIBs. There are many SIB types containing various system parameters such as various timers thresholds etc. One of these SIBs is SIB7 containing current uplink interference value that is decoded and stored by the UE in an uplink interference information element IE . The MIBs carry the scheduling information of all SIBs as well as their validity timer values. The UE utilizes an SIB7 update tracker to keep track of the validity of the uplink interference IE as well as the timing of the next occurrence of the SIB7.

During the UE s paging occasion whose repetition interval is fixed and broadcasted in system information the UE wakes up from the sleep mode and reads its paging indicator on the PICH. If the UEs paging indicator is detected as set by the network the UE will then read the paging block on the S CCPCH. For example the page can pertain to an incoming call that a call setup component of the UE needs to handle. A problem exists in that the timing of the paging block broadcast can overlap with the timing of the SIB7 broadcast. In such scenario the priority given to the demodulation of S CCPCH takes away the resources from the demodulation of the P CCPCH and causes the SIB7 broadcast to be missed. If the stored value of the uplink interference IE is determined as invalid by the SIB7 update tracker the stored uplink interference IE cannot be used in the call setup and therefore the call setup must be delayed until the next occurrence of the SIB7 broadcast An overlap prediction component can anticipate these overlap scenarios and utilize a radio resource control RRC Physical L1 PHY layer interface to configure simultaneous demodulation of both P CCPCH and S CCPCH by the P CCPCH demodulation component and the S CCPCH component so that the overlap does not cause a call setup delay.

When the network via the UMTS RAN want to page a UE e.g. to connect an incoming voice call a paging indicator PI corresponding to the UE is set on a paging indicator channel PICH received by a PICH demodulation component . The paging mechanism uses two channels namely the PICH Paging Indicator Channel and the PCH Paging Channel . Paging messages are carried in the PCH and the PICH carries only indications if paging messages relating to mobile terminals UEs in a given paging group are to be expected. The paging channel is transmitted over a paging area PA which may comprise one or more cells. The number of mobile terminals within the paging area can be large whereby the traffic volume of the paging channel can also be large. This means that if a mobile terminal were to receive paging messages only with the help of the PCH the mobile terminal would have to listen to paging messages of PCH which would consume an excessive amount of time for the terminal. This would cause excessive power consumption especially during sleep mode in which the power consumption of mobile terminals should be as low as possible. The paging indicators carried in PICH indicate to each paging group of mobile terminals if a paging message is to be expected on the PCH to some terminal of the paging group. Receiving of a paging indicator requires only receiving of a single burst and decoding the data bits of the burst to obtain the paging indicator values. The paging indicators are sent at predetermined intervals so that terminals can stay in sleep mode between the paging indicator bursts. If a paging indicator indicates that a paging message is to be expected for the paging group of a particular mobile terminal that mobile terminal begins to listen to PCH for a certain period to find out if any paging messages are intended to that mobile terminal. Terminals in a paging area are divided into paging groups e.g. 60 which allow the number of mobile terminals to stay rather low. The low number of terminals in a paging group results in a low number of paging messages intended for terminals in the group whereby the terminals need to listen to PCH only for short periods of time. This results in low power consumption in the sleep mode. In particular paging indicators are grouped into frames.

With reference to the assigned frames are termed paging occasions that occur with relation to a System Frame Number SFN SFN IMSI div mod DRX cycle length DRX cycle length Where K is the number of S CCPCH channels in a cell usually 1 DRX cycle length is a configurable parameter set by the network and IMSI is the International Mobile Subscriber Identity which is a fixed number assigned by the network to each subscriber. If the UE determines that the corresponding PI on the PICH is set the UE then stays awake to read a next frame on the paging channel PCH which is mapped onto a Secondary Common Control Physical Channel S CCPCH in order to determine if there is an incoming page destined for the UE depicted at .

With particular reference to the UE also listens to a broadcast logical channel BCCH in order to collect system information blocks SIB . The demodulation of BCCH logical channel at a radio resource control RRC layer related by transparent mode TM to a radio link control RLC layer has a broadcast channel BCH transport channel on the medium access control MAC layer and is mapped onto a Primary Common Control Physical Channel P CCPCH of a physical L1 PHY layer . An SIB scheduling information interface communicates between the RRC layer and the PHY L1 layer to selectively monitor the P CCPCH as well.

With particular reference to each frame contains a system information message containing a system frame number and system information block segments . In the example shown an SIB7 segment is scheduled for a particular frame on the PCCPCH that collides with the incoming page frame assigned to the UE . The SIB7 validity interval which in the 25.331 specification is referred to as expiration timer is the time during which the UE can initiate a call setup without reading a new SIB7 using the last stored value of SIB7 in interference value data structure . If the expiration timer is less than or equal to the SIB repetition rate the UE has to read every SIB7 broadcasted by the network. Thus this collision delays call setup until the next opportunity to reach the SIB7. In some instances the expiration timer will be greater than the repetition rate which mitigates the impact. However generally known networks tend to use the expiration timer as equal to the SIB7 repetition rate.

With reference to an exemplary version of a communication system is depicted according to some aspects as any type of computerized device. For example the communication device may comprise a cellular telephone which is depicted as also including wireless data communication features. Alternatively the communication device may comprises a fixed communication device such as a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF server a network device a server a computer workstation etc. It should be understood that communication device is not limited to such a described or illustrated devices but may further include a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a two way text pager a portable computer having a wired or wireless communication portal and any type of computer platform having a wired and or wireless communications portal. Further the communication device can be a remote slave or other similar device such as remote sensors remote servers diagnostic tools data relays and the like which does not have an end user thereof but which simply communicates data across a wireless or wired network. In alternate aspects the communication device may be a wired communication device such as a landline telephone personal computer set top box or the like. Additionally it should be noted that any combination of any number of communication devices of a single type or a plurality of the afore mentioned types may be utilized in a cellular communication system not shown . Therefore the present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Additionally the communication device may include a user interface for purposes such as viewing and interacting with advertisements. This user interface includes an input device operable to generate or receive a user input into the communication device and an output device operable to generate and or present information for consumption by the user of the communication device . For example input device may include at least one device such as a keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Output device may generate a graphical user interface a sound a feeling such as a vibration or a Braille symbol producing surface etc.

Further communication device may include a computer platform operable to execute applications to provide functionality to the device and which may further interact with input device and output device . Computer platform may include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory portions such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include active memory and storage memory including an electronic file system and any secondary and or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape soft and or hard disk and removable memory components.

Further computer platform may also include a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Certain of these capabilities of the communication device can be facilitated by code loaded from local storage over a data bus retained in RAM and executed by the processor . In some aspects such as when communication device comprises a cellular telephone processor or other logic can be integrated via a application programming interface API interfaces with any resident software components depicted as an operating system and applications that may be active in memory for other functions e.g. communication call control alarm clock text messaging etc. .

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on communications system . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices as well as within and or among components of communication device . In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processor may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM universal subscriber identity module subscriber identity module voice services graphics USB universal serial bus multimedia such as MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group protocol multimedia GPRS General Packet Radio Service short message service SMS short voice service SVS web browser etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

The illustrative depiction of the processing subsystems wherein the communication device is a cellular telephone processing subsystems include one or more of a receive Rx component for receiving communications sent to the processor of the wireless device a call processing CP component and or system determination SD component for handling the initiation authentication handoffs data exchanges messaging protocols internal processing and decision making etc. associated with processing a message and a transmit Tx component for sending communications from the processor of the communication device such as to handset components wireless network wireless network components and other devices connected to the wireless network. In this version CP component may handle the majority of the call processing tasks while SD component may handle tasks relating to selecting an appropriate system from a plurality of systems with which to communicate as well as higher level decision making tasks referenced by CP component . In addition processing subsystems may further include one or more of a diagnostic Dx component for evaluating a subsystem a fax Fx component for handling facsimile communications a call manager CM component for characterizing and logging call types a messaging component M for text sending and receiving and a data services DS component for processing all data related communications such as establishing and maintaining data calls.

A communications module enables communications among the various components of communication system . Communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof and may further include all protocols for use in intra device and inter device communications. In one aspect the communication module includes a wireless broadband access technology portion a wireless multicast technology portion a cellular telephone radio technology portion and a wireless personal access network portion . Examples of two way wireless broadband access technology portion can include one or more of a wireless code division multiple access W CDMA component an Evolution Data Optimized EV DO component an IEEE 802.11 compliant i.e. often generically referred to by the trademark WiFi component. An example of a wireless personal access network technology portion includes a Bluetooth component. Examples of a wireless multicast technology portion include a Forward Link Only FLO component and or a Digital Video Broadcast Handheld DVB H component.

Portions of wireless communication capabilities can be incorporated into a Network Interface Card NIC . NIC can provide functionality of a receiver and transmitter configured to receive and transmit wireless communications over a transmit antenna and a receive antenna . The NIC is interfaced to the computer platform via a driver . A controller of the NIC can receive commands from driver . In some versions commands for controller may be generated within components of operating system and application . In the illustrative version the NIC can monitor certain channels such as for paging indicator channel PICH and or to perform data communications such as for dual mode communication devices. The NIC also illustrates an uplink capability with adjustable transmit power such as for responding to an uplink interference value.

To send packets from the communication device the packets can be encoded using an Error Control Coding ECC component providing error control coding of any suitable type. For example the encoding may use a multi bit error correcting code. In the version illustrated ECC component can add a number of error control bits to each packet to be transmitted. The number of error control bits added to a packet may be configurable in response to commands from controller . Altering the number of bits per packet used for error control coding is a possible adaptation that may be made in NIC for poor channel conditions. For example more error control bits can be added in a noisy channel in which frequent errors occur. However increasing the number of bits used for error correction reduces the percentage of bits used for data transmission.

An encoding component may implement any suitable encoding according to a data transmission protocol used for wireless communication. Encoding implemented within encoding component may use a modulation scheme that is configurable based on input from controller . The modulation scheme used in encoding component may also be used to adapt to channel conditions. For example encoding component may support a range of encoding schemes with a variable number of bits per symbol. To adapt to noisy channels encoding component may be controlled to use an encoding scheme with a high number of bits per symbol. The encoded data are then transmitted by a transmitter at a transmit power level controlled by a transmit Xmit power controller . Transmission may be made via one or more transmit antennae . The transmit power level may also be controlled by controller and may serve to channel conditions such as uplink interference for which a higher transmit power may be specified.

Corresponding processing may be performed on received packets. Packets received by the communication device at one or more receive antennae may be processed through a receiver and then supplied to a received signal strength indicator RSSI component . RSSI may be obtained from a field in a received packet or it may be directly measured from the received wireless signal and then output in any suitable format. RSSI component may output signal strength or a signal to noise ratio SNR for any desired packets. In the version illustrated RSSI component outputs a signal strength indication based on the received signal strength. However the signal strength indication may be obtained in any suitable way. For example it can be a field in a packet e.g. an ACK packet that contains an SNR value from a corresponding packet measured at the receiver side e.g. a DATA packet .

The FEC component is coupled to a received data processing component which further processes the received packets. Received processing component may perform any number of received processing operations. For example received processing component may include a buffer in which a received packet is stored until it is transferred for further processing within operating system . Separate component capabilities can be provided for simultaneous demodulating channels received simultaneously depicted as a primary demodulator such as for P CCPCH and as a secondary demodulator such as for the S CCPCH.

In memory an IP Multimedia System IMS subscriber identity module ISIM is depicted as part of the communication device provisioning the communication device for session initiation protocol SIP and can include the functionality of a subscriber identity module SIM a universal subscriber identity module USIM and or an IMS subscriber identity module ISIM . In the exemplary version the ISIM is a UICC UMTS Integrated Circuit Card which is the chip card used in mobile terminals in GSM and UMTS networks. The UICC ensures the integrity and security of all kinds of personal data. In a GSM network the UICC contains a SIM application and in a UMTS network it is the USIM application. A UICC may contain several applications not shown making it possible for the same smartcard to give access to both GSM and UMTS networks and also provide storage of a phone book and other applications. In support of UMTS release 5 the IP multimedia Services Identity Module ISIM is required for services in the IMS. IP Multimedia Services Identity Module ISIM is an application running on a UICC smart card in a 3G mobile telephone in the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS . It contains parameters for identifying and authenticating the user to the IMS. The ISIM application can co exist with SIM and USIM on the same UICC making it possible to use the same smartcard in both GSM networks and earlier releases of UMTS.

In memory a mobile terminated call setup optimizer uses the identifying information of ISIM in a paging scheduling component to determine the assigned paging frames for the communication device . A paging monitor component receives a PI that the communication device should monitor the paging channel. An expiration timer data structure determines when a stored value for uplink interference needs updating prior to call setup. A collision prediction component determines that a collision is going to occur because the expiration timer data structure will expire but the paging monitor component has detected a need to monitor the paging channel. Advantageously an RRC PHY interface component enables simultaneous demodulation by primary and secondary demodulators in order to not miss an update for the uplink interference .

In a methodology for optimizing mobile terminated call setup begins in block by entering the wake up state from the sleep state. This procedure is implemented in the UE in a standard complying manner and is not altered by this invention. In block the paging indicator corresponding to the UE is read. The value of the paging indicator is verified in block and if the paging indicator is determined as set by the network the preparation for demodulating S CCPCH and decoding the paging channel in the next System Frame Number SFN are performed in block . In block the SFN of expiration timer of SIB7 is calculated. In block the validity of the stored UL interference IE is determined by comparing the SFN of expiration timer of SIB7 with the current SFN. If the current SFN is smaller than the SFN of the expiration timer of SIB7 than the UL interference IE is considered valid and vice versa. If the UL interference value is determined to be valid then there is no need to read new SIB7 on the broadcast channel. In this case the demodulation of the S CCPCH is performed by block in order to read the paging block on PCH and determine if there is a page destined to the UE in block . If the page is present the UE will initiate the call setup procedure . If the page is not present the UE is cleared to start a new sleep cycle . If the UL interference value is determined to be not valid in block the UE will compute the SFN of the next SIB7 broadcast in block using scheduling information found in MIB. The overlap detection mechanism in block will determine if the next SIB7 broadcast overlaps with the next SFN in which the UE will be demodulating S CCPCH. If the overlap is detected the UE will engage necessary resources including hardware and software in order to demodulate both P CCPCH and S CCPCH during the overlapping frames so that both the paging block and the SIB7 are acquired. Then if the page destined to the UE is detected in block the UE will initiate call setup procedure in block . If the page is not present the UE is cleared to start a new sleep cycle . If the overlap between the paging block and the SIB7 broadcast is not detected in block the UE proceed with the demodulation of only S CCPCH in the next SFN in order to read the paging block. If the page destined to the UE is detected in the UE will wait until the SFN of the broadcast of the next SIB7. When the SFN in which the next SIB7 broadcast is scheduled arrives the UE will demodulate P CCPCH and acquire SIB7 in block . The UE will then initiate call setup procedure in block . If the page is not present the UE is cleared to start a new sleep cycle .

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

It should be appreciated that any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

