---

title: Compositions and methods to prevent cancer with cupredoxins
abstract: The present invention relates to compositions comprising peptides that may be variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from , and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The present invention further relates to compositions that may comprise cupredoxin(s), and/or variants, derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxins, that retain the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues or animals. These compositions may be peptides or pharmaceutical compositions, among others. The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07618939&OS=07618939&RS=07618939
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07618939
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070913
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 and 120 to Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 844 358 filed Sep. 14 2006 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 244 105 filed Oct. 6 2005 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 616 782 filed Oct. 7 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 680 500 filed May 13 2005 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 720 603 filed Nov. 24 2003 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 491 394 on Feb. 17 2009 and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 414 550 filed Aug. 15 2003 and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 047 710 filed Jan. 15 2002 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 105 on Aug. 1 2006 and which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 269 133 filed Feb. 15 2001. The entire content of these prior applications is fully incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter of this application has been supported by research grants from the National Institutes of Health NIH Bethesda Md. U.S.A. Grant Numbers AI 16790 21 ES 04050 16 AI 45541 CA09432 ad N01 CM97567 . The government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to compositions comprising variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells tissues and animals. The invention also relates to the use of cupredoxins and variants derivatives and structurally equivalents of cupredoxins as chemopreventive agents in mammals to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions and ultimately cancer.

Cancer chemoprevention is the use of natural synthetic or biologic chemical agents to reverse suppress or prevent carcinogenic progression to invasive cancer. Recent clinical trials in preventing cancer in high risk populations suggest that chemopreventive therapy is a realistic treatment for high risk patients. Chemopreventive therapy is based on the concepts of multifocal field carcinogenesis and multistep carcinogenesis. In field carcinogenesis generalized carcinogen exposure throughout the tissue field results in diffuse epithelial injury in tissue and clonal proliferation of the mutated cells. These genetic mutations throughout the field increase the likelihood that one or more premalignant or malignant lesions may develop in the field. Multistep carcinogenesis in the stepwise accumulation of these genetic and phenotypic alterations. Arresting one or more steps in the multistep cancinogenesis may impede or prevent the development of cancer. See generally Tsao et al. CA Cancer J Clin 54 150 180 2004 .

Azurin and other cupredoxins are cytotoxic specifically towards cancer cells. Azurin induces apoptosis in J774 lung cancer cells. Yamada et al. PNAS 99 22 14098 14103 2002 . On entry into J774 lung cancer cells azurin localizes in the cytosol and nuclear fractions and forms a complex with tumor suppressor protein p53 thereby stabilizing it and enhancing its intracellular level. Id. The induction of azurin mediated apoptosis is not limited to J774 cells. Azurin can also enter cancer cells such as human melanoma UISO Mel 2 or human breast cancer MCF 7 cells. Yamada et al. Infect Immun. 70 7054 7062 2002 Punj et al. Oncogene. 2 2367 2378 2004 . In both cases azurin allowed the elevation of the intracellular p53 levels leading to enhanced Bax formation and induction of apoptosis in such cells. Most interestingly intraperitoneal injection of azurin in nude mice harboring xenografted Mel 2 or MCF 7 human cancers led to statistically significant regression of such cancers. Id.

The mouse mammary gland organ culture MMOC assay may be used to evaluate the inhibitory effects of potential chemopreventive agents on both hormone induced structural differentiation of mammary glands and on the development of DMBA induced preneoplastic hyperplastic alveolar nodule like lesions in the gland. Mammary glands from young virgin animals when incubated for 6 days in the presence of insulin I prolactin P aldosterone A can differentiate into fully grown glands. These glands morphologically resemble the glands obtained from pregnant mice. Aldosterone can be replaced by estrogen E progesterone Pg Inclusion of hydrocortisone H to the medium stimulates the functional differentiation of the mammary glands. Mehta and Banerjee Acta Endocrinol. 80 501 1975 Mehta and Moon 300 300 Basil A Stoll ed. Blackwell Press 1986 . Thus the hormone induced structural and functional differentiation observed in this culture system mimics the responses to hormones observed during various physiological stages of the animal.

Mice exhibit a distinct preneoplastic stage prior to cancer formation in MMOC Such preneoplastic lesions in C3H mice are induced by murine mammary tumor virus or in BALB c mice by DMBA. Exposure of the glands to 2 g ml DMBA between days 3 and 4 of growth phases followed by regression of the glands for 2 3 weeks in the medium containing only insulin results in the formation of mammary alveolar lesions MAL . Hawthorne et al. Pharmaceutical Biology 40 70 74 2002 Mehta et al. Methods in Cell Science 19 19 24 1997 . Furthermore transplantation of epithelial cells prepared from glands containing the DMBA induced mammary lesions into syngeneic host resulted in the development of mammary adenocarcinoma. Telang et al. PNAS 76 5886 5890 1979 . Pathologically these tumors were similar to those observed in vivo when mice of the same strain are administered DMBA. Id.

DMBA induced mammary lesion formation in MMOC can be inhibited by a variety of classes of chemopreventive agents such as retinoids. These agents include chemopreventive agents derived from the natural products such as brassinin and resveretrol thiols antioxidants inhibitors of ornithine decarboxylase such as OFMO and deguelin inhibitors of prostaglandin synthesis Ca regulators etc. Jang et al. Science 275 218 220 1997 Mehta Eur. J. Cancer 36 1275 1282 2000 Metha et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 89 212 219 1997 . These studies clearly demonstrate that this organ culture system offers a unique model to determine the effectiveness of compounds against mammary carcinogenesis. The results can be expected to closely correlate to the inhibition obtained by in vivo administration of such compounds.

The MMOC may also be induced to form mammary ductal lesions MDL . The MDL can be induced if estrogen and progesterone instead of aldosterone and hydrocortisone are included in the medium. The alveolar structures in the presence of ovarian steroids are very small but the intraductal lesions are observed in histopathological sections. Mehta et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 93 1103 1106 2001 . The antiestrogens which selectively work on ovarian hormone dependent ER breast cancers such as tamoxifen inhibited MDL formation and not MAL. Thus this modified culture model in addition to conventional MAL induction protocol now can be used to evaluate effects of chemopreventive agents on both MAL and MOL.

What is needed is a chemopreventive agent that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions. Such a chemopreventive agent should be able to either prevent the initial development of premalignant lesions induce cell death in premalignant lesions that form and or prevent the development of premalignant lesions into malignant lesions. Such chemopreventive agents would have great utility in treating in particular patients who are at a high risk of developing cancer due to either the presence of high risk features the presence of pre malignant lesions or the previous of cancer or premalignant lesions.

The present invention relates to compositions comprising peptides that may be variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells tissues and animals. Specifically these compositions may comprise azurin from and or the 50 77 residue region of azurin p28 . The present invention further relates to compositions that may comprise cupredoxin s and or variants derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxins that retain the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells tissues or animals. These compositions may be isolated peptides or pharmaceutical compositions among others. The compositions of the invention may be used in methods to prevent the development of cancer in mammalian patients.

One aspect of the invention are isolated peptides that may be a variant derivative or structural equivalent of a cupredoxin and may inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian tissue. The cupredoxin may be azurin pseudoazurin plastocyanin rusticyanin Laz auracyanin stellacyanin and cucumber basic protein and specifically may be azurin. The cupredoxin may be from an organism such as sp. and and specifically may be . In some embodiments the peptide may be part of SEQ ID NOS 1 3 19 or has at least 80 amino acid sequence identity to SEQ ID NOS 1 3 19.

In some embodiments the isolated peptide may be a truncation of a cupredoxin. The isolated peptide may be more than about 10 residues and not more than about 100 residues. The isolated peptide may comprise or alternatively consist of aeruginosa azurin residues 50 77 azurin residues 50 67 azurin residues 36 88 or SEQ ID NOS 20 24.

Another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition that may comprise at least one or two cupredoxins or isolated peptides of the invention in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition may be formulated for intravenous administration. In some embodiments the cupredoxin in the pharmaceutical composition may be from an organism such as sp. and and specifically may be from . The cupredoxin may be SEQ ID NOS 1 3 19.

Another aspect of the invention is a method to treat a mammalian patient by administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of the invention. The patient may be human and may be at a higher risk to develop cancer than the general population. In some embodiments the cancer may be melanoma breast pancreas glioblastoma astrocytoma lung colorectal neck and head bladder prostate skin or cervical cancer. In some embodiments the patient may have at least one high risk feature premalignant lesions or have been cured of cancer or premalignant lesions.

The pharmaceutical composition may be administered by intravenous injection intramuscular injection subcutaneous injection inhalation topical administration transdermal patch suppository vitreous injection or oral and specifically may be administered by intravenous injection. The pharmaceutical composition may be co administered with at least one other chemopreventive drug and specifically at about the same time as another chemopreventive drug.

Another aspect of the invention is a kit comprising the pharmaceutical composition of the invention in a vial. The kit may be designed for intravenous administration.

Another aspect of the invention is a method to study the development of cancer comprising contacting mammalian cells with a cupredoxin or peptide of the invention and measuring the development of premalignant and malignant cells. In some embodiments the cells may be human and or mammary cells. In some embodiments the cells are induced to develop premalignant lesions.

These and other aspects advantages and features of the invention will become apparent from the following figures and detailed description of the specific embodiments.

As used herein the term cell includes either the singular or the plural of the term unless specifically described as a single cell. 

As used herein the terms polypetide peptide and protein are used interchangeably to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. The terms apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residue is an artificial chemical analogue of a corresponding naturally occurring amino acid. The terms also apply to naturally occurring amino acid polymers. The terms polypeptide peptide and protein are also inclusive of modifications including but not limited to glycosylation lipid attachment sulfation gamma carboxylation of glutamic acid residues hydroxylation and ADP ribosylation. It will be appreciated that polypeptides are not always entirely linear. For instance polypeptides may be branched as a result of ubiquitination and they may be circular with or without branching generally as a result of post translation events including natural processing event and events brought about by human manipulation which do not occur naturally. Circular branched and branched circular polypeptides may be synthesized by non translation natural process and by entirely synthetic methods as well.

As used herein the term pharmacologic activity means the effect of a drug or other chemical on a biological system. The effect of chemical may be beneficial therapeutic or harmful toxic . The pure chemicals or mixtures may be of natural origin plant animal or mineral or may be synthetic compounds.

As used herein the term premalignant means precancerous or before abnormal cells divide without control.

As used herein the term pathological condition includes anatomic and physiological deviations from the normal that constitute an impairment of the normal state of the living animal or one of its parts that interrupts or modifies the performance of the bodily functions and is a response to various factors as malnutrition industrial hazards or climate to specific infective agents as worms parasitic protozoa bacteria or viruses to inherent defects of the organism as genetic anomalies or to combinations of these factors.

As used herein the term condition includes anatomic and physiological deviations from the normal that constitute an impairment of the normal state of the living animal or one of its parts that interrupts or modifies the performance of the bodily functions.

As used herein the term suffering from includes presently exhibiting the symptoms of a pathological condition having a pathological condition even without observable symptoms in recovery from a pathological condition or recovered from a pathological condition.

As used herein the term chemoprevention is the use of drugs vitamins or other agents to try to reduce the risk of or delay the development or recurrence of cancer.

A used herein the term treatment includes preventing lowering stopping or reversing the progression or severity of the condition or symptoms associated with a condition being treated. As such the term treatment includes medical therapeutic and or prophylactic administration as appropriate. Treatment may also include preventing or lessening the development of a condition such as cancer.

As used herein the term inhibit cell growth means the slowing or ceasing of cell division and or cell expansion. This term also includes the inhibition of cell development or increases in cell death.

A therapeutically effective amount is an amount effective to prevent lower stop or reverse the development of or to partially or totally alleviate the existing symptoms of a particular condition for which the subject being treated. Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art.

The term substantially pure as used herein when used to modify a protein or other cellular product of the invention refers to for example a protein isolated from the growth medium or cellular contents in a form substantially free of or unadulterated by other proteins and or other compounds. The term substantially pure refers to a factor in an amount of at least about 75 by dry weight of isolated fraction or at least 75 substantially pure. More specifically the term substantially pure refers to a compound of at least about 85 by dry weight of isolated fraction or at least 85 substantially pure. Most specifically the term substantially pure refers to a compound of at least about 95 by dry weight of Isolated fraction or at least 95 substantially pure. The term substantially pure may also be used to modify a synthetically made protein or compound of the invention where for example the synthetic protein is isolated from the reagents and by products of the synthesis reaction s .

The term pharmaceutical grade as used herein when referring to a peptide or compound of the invention is a peptide or compound that is isolated substantially or essentially from components which normally accompany the material as it is found in its natural state including synthesis reagents and by products and substantially or essentially isolated from components that would impair its use as a pharmaceutical. For example a pharmaceutical grade peptide may be isolated from any carcinogen. In some instances pharmaceutical grade may be modified by the intended method of administration such as intravenous pharmaceutical grade in order to specify a peptide or compound that is substantially or essentially isolated from any substance that would render the composition unsuitable for intravenous administration to a patient. For example an intravenous pharmaceutical grade peptide may be isolated from detergents such as SDS and anti bacterial agents such as azide.

The terms isolated purified or biologically pure refer to material which is substantially or essentially free from components which normally accompany the material as it is found in its native state. Thus isolated peptides in accordance with the invention preferably do not contain materials normally associated with the peptides in their in situ environment. An isolated region of a polypeptide refers to a region that does not include the whole sequence of the polypeptide from which the region was derived. An isolated nucleic acid protein or respective fragment thereof has been substantially removed from its in vivo environment so that it may be manipulated by the skilled artisan such as but not limited to nucleotide sequencing restriction digestion site directed mutagenesis and subcloning into expression vectors for a nucleic acid fragment as well as obtaining the protein or protein fragment in substantially pure quantities.

The term variant as used herein with respect to a peptide refers to amino acid sequence variants which may have amino acids replaced deleted or inserted as compared to the wild type polypeptide. Variants may be truncations of the wild type peptide. A deletion is the removal of one or more amino acids from within the polypeptide which a truncation is the removal of one or more amino acids from one or both ends of the polypeptide. Thus a variant peptide may be made by manipulation of genes encoding the polypeptide. A variant may be made by altering the basic composition or characteristics of the polypeptide but not at least some of its pharmacologic activities. For example a variant of azurin can be a mutated azurin that retains its ability to inhibit the development of premalignant mammalian cells. In some cases a variant peptide is synthesized with non natural amino acids such as e 3 5 dinitrobenzoyl Lys residues. Ghadiri Fernholz J. Am. Chem. Soc. 112 9633 9635 1990 . In some embodiments the variant has not more than 20 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide or part thereof. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 15 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide or part thereof. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 10 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide or part thereof. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 6 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide or part thereof. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 5 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide or part thereof. In some embodiments the variant has not more than 3 amino acids replaced deleted or inserted compared to wild type peptide or part thereof.

The term amino acid as used herein means an amino acid moiety that comprises any naturally occurring or non naturally occurring or synthetic amino acid residue i.e. any moiety comprising at least one carboxyl and at least one amino residue directly linked by one two three or more carbon atoms typically one a carbon atom.

The term derivative as used herein with respect to a peptide refers to a peptide that is derived from the subject peptide. A derivation includes chemical modifications of the peptide such that the peptide still retains some of its fundamental activities. For example a derivative of azurin can for example be a chemically modified azurin that retains its ability to inhibit angiogenesis in mammalian cells. Chemical modifications of interest include but are not limited to amidation acetylation sulfation polyethylene glycol PEG modification phosphorylation or glycosylation of the peptide. In addition a derivative peptide may be a fusion of a polypeptide or fragment thereof to a chemical compound such as but not limited to another peptide drug molecule or other therapeutic or pharmaceutical agent or a detectable probe.

The term percent amino acid sequence identity is defined as the percentage of amino acid residues in a polypeptide that are identical with amino acid residues in a candidate sequence when the two sequences are aligned. To determine amino acid identity sequences are aligned and if necessary gaps are introduced to achieve the maximum sequence identity conservative substitutions are not considered as part of the sequence identity. Amino acid sequence alignment procedures to determine percent identity are well known to those of skill in the art. Often publicly available computer software such as BLAST BLAST2 ALIGN2 or Megalign DNASTAR software is used to align peptide sequences. In a specific embodiment Blastp available from the National Center for Biotechnology Information Bethesda Md. is used using the default parameters of long complexity filter expect 10 word size 3 existence 11 and extension 1.

When amino acid sequences are aligned the amino acid sequence identity of a given amino acid sequence A to with or against a given amino acid sequence B which can alternatively be phrased as a given amino acid sequence A that has or comprises a certain amino acid sequence identity to with or against a given amino acid sequence B can be calculated as amino acid sequence identity 100

If the length of amino acid sequence A is not equal to the length of amino acid sequence B the amino acid sequence identity of A to B will not equal the amino acid sequence identity of B to A. When comparing longer sequences to shorter sequences the shorter sequence will be the B sequence. For example when comparing truncated peptides to the corresponding wild type polypeptide the truncated peptide will be the B sequence.

The present invention provides compositions comprising cupredoxin and variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins and methods to prevent the development of cancer in mammals. The invention also provides to variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxin that retain the ability to prevent the development of cancer or the re occurrence of cancer in mammals. Most particularly the invention provides compositions comprising azurin variants derivatives and structural equivalents of azurin and their use to treat patients and particularly patients at a higher risk of developing cancer than the general population. Finally the invention provides methods to study the development of cancer in mammalian cells tissues and animals by contacting the cells with a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof before or after inducing premalignant lesions and observing the development of premalignant and or malignant cells.

Previously it was know that a redox protein elaborated by the cupredoxin azurin selectively enters J774 lung cancer cells but not normal cells and induces apoptosis. Zaborina et al. Microbiology 146 2521 2530 2000 . Azurin can also selectively enter and kill human melanoma UISO Mel 2 or human breast cancer MCF 7 cells. Yamada et al. PNAS 99 14098 14103 2002 Punj et al. Oncogene 23 2367 2378 2004 . Azurin from preferentially enters J774 murine reticulum cell sarcoma cells forms a complex with and stabilizes the tumor suppressor protein p53 enhances the intracellular concentration of p53 and induces apoptosis. Yamada et al. Infection and Immunity 70 7054 7062 2002 . Detailed studies of various domains of the azurin molecule showed that amino acids 50 77 p28 SEQ ID NO 2 represented a protein transduction domain PTD critical for internalization and subsequent apoptotic activity. Yamada et al. Cell. Microbial. 7 1418 1431 2005 .

It is now known that azurin and peptides derived from azurin such as p28 have chemopreventive properties. It is now known that azurin and p28 prevent to formation of premalignant preneoplastic lesions in mouse mammary gland organ culture. In a mouse mammary gland organ culture model azurin at 50 g ml was found to inhibit the formation of alveolar lesions by 67 . Likewise p28 at 25 g ml was found to inhibit the formation of alveolar lesions by 67 . See Example 1. Further azurin at 50 g ml was found to inhibit the formation of ductal lesions by 79 and p28 at 25 g ml inhibited the formation of ductal lesions by 71 . See Example 1. Confocal microscopy and FAC showed that azurin and p28 entered normal murine mammary epithelial cells MM3MG and mammary cancer cells 4T1 . P28 also entered human umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVEC in a temperature time and concentration dependent manner and inhibited capillary tube formation of HUVEC plated on Matrigel in a dose dependent manner. It is therefore now known that azurin and variants of azurin may be used to inhibit the formation of premalignant preneoplastic lesions and thus the development of cancer and specifically breast cancer in mammalian patients.

Due to the high degree of structural similarity between cupredoxins it is likely that other cupredoxins will inhibit the formation of premalignant lesions in mammals as well as azurin. Such cupredoxins may be found in for example bacteria or plants. Several cupredoxins are known to have pharmacokinetic activities similar to those of azurin from . For example rusticyanin from can also enter macrophages and induce apoptosis. Yamada et al. Cell Cycle 3 1182 1187 2004 Yamada et al. Cell. Micro. 7 1418 1431 2005 . Plastocyanin from and pseudoazurin form also are cytotoxic towards macrophages. U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20060040269 published Feb. 23 2006. It is therefore contemplated that other cupredoxins may be used in the compositions and methods of the invention. Further variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that retain the ability to inhibit the formation of cancer in mammals may also be used in the compositions and methods of the invention. These variants and derivatives may include but are not limited to truncations of a cupredoxin conservative substitutions of amino acids and proteins modifications such as PEGylation and all hydrocarbon stabling of helices.

The invention provides for peptides that are variants derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxin that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells tissues and animals. The invention further provides for peptides that are variants derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxin that inhibit the development of cancer in mammalian cells tissues and animals. In some embodiments the peptide is isolated. In some embodiments the peptide is substantially pure or pharmaceutical grade. In other embodiments the peptide is in a composition that comprises or consists essentially of the peptide. In another specific embodiment the peptide is non antigenic and does not raise an immune response in a mammal and more specifically a human. In some embodiments the peptide is less that a full length cupredoxin and retains some of the pharmacologic activities of the cupredoxins. Specifically in some embodiments the peptide may retain the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in the mouse mammary gland organ culture.

The invention also provides compositions comprising at least one peptide that is a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent of a cupredoxin specifically in a pharmaceutical composition. In specific embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is designed for a particular mode of administration for example but not limited to oral intraperitoneal or intravenous. Such compositions may be hydrated in water or may be dried such as by lyophilization for later hydration. Such compositions may be in solvents other than water such as but not limited to alcohol.

Because of the high structural homology between the cupredoxins it is contemplated that cupredoxins will have the same chemopreventive properties as azurin and p28. In some embodiments the cupredoxin is but is not limited to azurin pseudoazurin plastocyanin rusticyanin auracyanin stellacyanin cucumber basic protein or Laz. In particularly specific embodiments the azurin is derived from ssp. I sp. or . In a very specific embodiment the azurin is from . In other specific embodiments the cupredoxin comprises an amino acid sequence that is SEQ ID NO 1 3 19.

The invention provides peptides that are amino acid sequence variants which have amino acids replaced deleted or inserted as compared to the wild type cupredoxin. Variants of the invention may be truncations of the wild type cupredoxin. In some embodiments the peptide of the invention comprises a region of a cupredoxin that is less that the full length wild type polypeptide. In some embodiments the peptide of the invention comprises more than about 10 residues more than about 15 residues or more than about 20 residues of a truncated cupredoxin. In some embodiments the peptide comprises not more than about 100 residues not more than about 50 residues not more than about 40 residues not more than about 30 residues or not more than about 20 residues of a truncated cupredoxin. In some embodiments a cupredoxin has to the peptide and more specifically SEQ ID NOS 1 3 19 as to the peptide of the invention at least about 70 amino acid sequence identity at least about 80 amino acid sequence identity at least about 90 amino acid sequence identity at least about 95 amino acid sequence identity or at least about 99 amino acid sequence identity.

In specific embodiments the variant of cupredoxin comprises azurin residues 50 77 p28 SEQ ID NO 9 azurin residues 50 67 or azurin residues 36 88. In other embodiments the variant of cupredoxin consists of azurin residues 50 77 azurin residues 50 67 or azurin residues 36 88. In other specific embodiments the variant consists of the equivalent residues of a cupredoxin other that azurin. It is also contemplated that other cupredoxin variants can be designed that have a similar pharmacologic activity to azurin residues 50 77 or azurin residues 36 88. To do this the subject cupredoxin amino acid sequence will be aligned to the azurin sequence using BLAST BLAST2 ALIGN2 or Megalign DNASTAR the relevant residues located on the azurin amino acid sequence and the equivalent residues found on the subject cupredoxin sequence and the equivalent peptide thus designed.

In one embodiment of the invention the cupredoxin variant contains at least amino acids 57 to 89 of auracyanin B of SEQ ID NO 20 . In another embodiment of the invention the cupredoxin variant contains at least amino acids 51 77 of azurin SEQ ID NO 21 . In another embodiment of the invention the cupredoxin variant contains at least amino acids 89 115 of Laz SEQ ID NO 22 . In another embodiment of the invention the cupredoxin variant contains at least amino acids 52 78 of azurin SEQ ID NO 23 . In another embodiment of the invention the cupredoxin variant contains at least amino acids 51 77 of azurin SEQ ID NO 24 .

The variants may also include peptides made with synthetic amino acids not naturally occurring. For example non naturally occurring amino acids may be integrated into the variant peptide to extend or optimize the half life of the composition in the bloodstream. Such variants include but are not limited to D L peptides diastereomer for example Futaki et al. J. Biol. Chem. 276 8 5836 40 2001 Papo et al. Cancer Res. 64 16 5779 86 2004 Miller et al Biochem. Pharmacol. 36 1 169 76 1987 peptides containing unusual amino acids for example Lee et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 2 69 84 2004 olefin containing non natural amino acid followed by hydrocarbon stapling or example Schafmeister et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 5891 5892 2000 Walenski et al. Science 305 1466 1470 2004 and peptides comprising 3 5 dinitrobenzoyl Lys residues.

In other embodiments the peptide of the invention is a derivative of a cupredoxin. The derivatives of cupredoxin are chemical modifications of the peptide such that the peptide still retains some of its fundamental activities. For example a derivative of azurin can be a chemically modified azurin that retains its ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells tissues or animals. Chemical modifications of interest include but are not limited to hydrocarbon stabling amidation acetylation sulfation polyethylene glycol PEG modification phosphorylation and glycosylation of the peptide. In addition a derivative peptide may be a fusion of a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof to a chemical compound such as but not limited to another peptide drug molecule or other therapeutic or pharmaceutical agent or a detectable probe. Derivatives of interest include chemical modifications by which the half life in the bloodstream of the peptides and compositions of the invention can be extended or optimized such as by several methods well known to those in the art including but not limited to circularized peptides for example Monk et al. BioDrugs 19 4 261 78 2005 DeFreest et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 5 409 19 2004 N and C terminal modifications for example Labrie et al. Clin. Invest. Med. 13 5 275 8 1990 and olefin containing non natural amino acid followed by hydrocarbon stapling or example Schafmeister et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 5891 5892 2000 Walenski et al. Science 305 1466 1470 2004 .

In another embodiment the peptide is a structural equivalent of a cupredoxin. Examples of studies that determine significant structural homology between cupredoxins and other proteins include Toth et al. Developmental Cell 1 82 92 2001 . Specifically significant structural homology between a cupredoxin and the structural equivalent may be determined by using the VAST algorithm. Gibrat et al. Curr Opin Struct Biol 6 377 385 1996 Madej et al. Proteins 23 356 3690 1995 . In specific embodiments the VAST p value from a structural comparison of a cupredoxin to the structural equivalent may be less than about 10 less than about 10 or less than about 10. In other embodiments significant structural homology between a cupredoxin and the structural equivalent may be determined by using the DALI algorithm. Holm Sander J. Mol. Biol. 233 123 138 1993 . In specific embodiments the DALI Z score for a pairwise structural comparison is at least about 3.5 at least about 7.0 or at least about 10.0.

It is contemplated that the peptides of the composition of invention may be more than one of a variant derivative and or structural equivalent of a cupredoxin. For example the peptides may be a truncation of azurin that has been PEGylated thus making it both a variant and a derivative. In one embodiment the peptides of the invention are synthesized with disubstituted non natural amino acids containing olefin bearing tethers followed by an all hydrocarbon staple by ruthenium catalyzed olefin metathesis. Scharmeister et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 5891 5892 2000 Walensky et al. Science 305 1466 1470 2004 . Additionally peptides that are structural equivalents of azurin may be fused to other peptides thus making a peptide that is both a structural equivalent and a derivative. These examples are merely to illustrate and not to limit the invention. Variants derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxin may or may not bind copper.

In some embodiments the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof has some of the pharmacologic activities of the azurin and specifically p28. In a specific embodiment the cupredoxins and variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that may inhibit prevent the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells tissues or animals and specifically but not limited to mammary gland cells. The invention also provides for the cupredoxins and variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that may have the ability to inhibit the development of mammalian premalignant lesions and specifically but not limited to melanoma breast pancreas glioblastoma astrocytoma lung colorectal neck and head bladder prostate skin and cervical cancer cells. Inhibition of the development of cancer cells is any decrease or lessening of the rate of increase of the development of premalignant lesions that is statistically significant as compared to control treatments.

Because it is now known that cupredoxins can inhibit the development of premalignant lesions and ultimately cancer in mammalian cells tissues or animals and specifically breast cells and more specifically mouse mammary gland cells it is now possible to design variants and derivatives of cupredoxins that retain this chemopreventive activity. Such variants derivatives and structural equivalents can be made by for example creating a library of various variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins and cupredoxin derived peptides and then testing each for chemopreventive activity and specifically chemopreventive activity in the mouse mammary gland organ culture using one of many methods known in the art such the exemplary method in Example 1. It is contemplated that the resulting variants derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins with chemopreventive activity may be used in the methods of the invention in place of or in addition to azurin or p28.

In some specific embodiments the variant derivative or structural equivalent of cupredoxin may inhibit the development of 7 12 dimethylbenz a anthracene DMBA induced premalignant lesions in a mouse mammary gland organ culture MMOC to a degree that is statistically different from a non treated control. A peptide can be tested for this activity by using the MMOC model system is described in Example 1 or as in Mehta et al. J Natl Cancer Inst 93 1103 1106 2001 and Mehta et al. Meth Cell Sci 19 19 24 1997 . Other methods to determine whether cancer development is inhibited another are well known in the art and may be used as well.

In some specific embodiments the variant derivative or structural equivalent of cupredoxin inhibits the development of mammary alveolar lesions MAL in the a MMOC model to a degree that is statistically different from a non treated control. In some specific embodiments the variant derivative or structural equivalent of cupredoxin inhibits the development of mammary ductal lesions MDL in the a MMOC model to a degree that is statistically different from a non treated control. A peptide can be tested for these activities by using the MMOC model system induced to form premalignant lesions by DMBA as described in Example 1 Evaluation of development of premalignant lesions in a MMOC model system may be determined by morphometic analysis or histopathological analysis as provided in Example 1.

These small blue copper proteins cupredoxins are electron transfer proteins 10 20 kDa that participate in bacterial electron transfer chains or are of unknown function. The copper ion is solely bound by the protein matrix. A special distorted trigonal planar arrangement to two histidine and one cysteine ligands around the copper gives rise to very peculiar electronic properties of the metal site and an intense blue color. A number of cupredoxins have been crystallographically characterized at medium to high resolution.

The cupredoxins in general have a low sequence homology but high structural homology. Gough Clothia Structure 12 917 925 2004 De Rienzo et al. Protein Science 9 1439 1454 2000 . For example the amino acid sequence of azurin is 31 identical to that of auracyanin B 16.3 to that of rusticyanin 20.3 to that of plastocyanin and 17.3 to that of pseudoazurin. See Table 1. However the structural similarity of these proteins is more pronounced. The VAST p value for the comparison of the structure of azurin to auracyanin B is 10 azurin to rusticyanin is 10 azurin to plastocyanin is 10 and azurin to psuedoazurin is 10.

All of the cupredoxins possess an eight stranded Greek key beta barrel or beta sandwich fold and have a highly conserved site architecture. De Rienzo et al. Protein Science 9 1439 1454 2000 . A prominent hydrophobic patch due to the presence of many long chain aliphatic residues such as methionines and leucines is present around the copper site in azurins amicyanins cyanobacterial plastocyanins cucumber basic protein and to a lesser extent pseudoazurin and eukaryotic plastocyanins. Id. Hydrophobic patches are also found to a lesser extent in stellacyanin and rusticyanin copper sites but have different features. Id.

The azurins are copper containing proteins of 128 amino acid residues which belong to the family of cupredoxins involved in electron transfer in certain bacteria. The azurins include those from PA SEQ ID NO 1 and . Murphy et al. J. Mol. Biol. 315 859 871 2002 . The amino acid sequence identity between the azurins varies between 60 90 these proteins showed a strong structural homology. All azurins have a characteristic sandwich with Greek key motif and the single copper atom is always placed at the same region of the protein. In addition azurins possess an essentially neutral hydrophobic patch surrounding the copper site. Id.

The plastocyanins are soluble proteins of cyanobacteria algae and plants that contain one molecule of copper per molecule and are blue in their oxidized form. They occur in the chloroplast where they function as electron carriers. Since the determination of the structure of poplar plastocyanin in 1978 the structure of algal and plant French bean plastocyanins has been determined either by crystallographic or NMR methods and the poplar structure has been refined to 1.33 resolution. SEQ ID NO 3 shows the amino acid sequence of plastocyanin from a thermophilic cyanobacterium. Another plastocyanin of interest is from

Despite the sequence divergence among plastocyanins of algae and vascular plants e.g. 62 sequence identity between the Chlamydomonas and poplar proteins the three dimensional structures are conserved e.g. 0.76 rms deviation in the C alpha positions between the and proteins . Structural features include a distorted tetrahedral copper binding site at one end of an eight stranded antiparallel beta barrel a pronounced negative patch and a flat hydrophobic surface. The copper site is optimized for its electron transfer function and the negative and hydrophobic patches are proposed to be involved in recognition of physiological reaction partners. Chemical modification cross linking and site directed mutagenesis experiments have confirmed the importance of the negative and hydrophobic patches in binding interactions with cytochrome f and validated the model of two functionally significant electron transfer paths involving plastocyanin. One putative electron transfer path is relatively short approximately 4 and involves the solvent exposed copper ligand His 87 in the hydrophobic patch while the other is more lengthy approximately 12 15 and involves the nearly conserved residue Tyr 83 in the negative patch. Redinbo et al. J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 26 49 66 1994 .

Rusticyanins are blue copper containing single chain polypeptides obtained from a now called . The X ray crystal structure of the oxidized form of the extremely stable and highly oxidizing cupredoxin rusticyanin from SEQ ID NO 4 has been determined by multiwavelength anomalous diffraction and refined to 1.9 resolution. The rusticyanins are composed of a core beta sandwich fold composed of a six and a seven stranded b sheet. Like other cupredoxins the copper ion is coordinated by a cluster of four conserved residues His 85 Cys138 His143 Met148 arranged in a distorted tetrahedron. Walter R. L. et al. J. Mol. Biol. 263 730 51 1996 .

The pseudoazurins are a family of blue copper containing single chain polypeptide. The amino acid sequence of pseudoazurin obtained from is shown in SEQ ID NO 5. The X ray structure analysis of pseudoazurin shows that it has a similar structure to the azurins although there is low sequence homology between these proteins. Two main differences exist between the overall structure of the pseudoazurins and azurins. There is a carboxy terminus extension in the pseudoazurins relative to the azurins consisting of two alpha helices. In the mid peptide region azurins contain an extended loop shortened in the pseudoazurins which forms a flap containing a short helix. The only major differences at the copper atom site are the conformation of the MET side chain and the Met S copper bond length which is significantly shorter in pseudoazurin than in azurin.

The proteins identifiable as phtocyanins include but are not limited to cucumber basic protein stellacyanin mavicyanin umecyanin a cucumber peeling cupredoxin a putative blue copper protein in pea pods and a blue copper protein from . In all except cucumber basic protein and the pea pod protein the axial methionine ligand normally found at blue copper sites is replaced by glutamine.

Three small blue copper proteins designated auracyanin A auracyanin B 1 and auracyanin B 2 have been isolated from the thermophilic green gliding photosynthetic bacterium . The two B forms are glycoproteins and have almost identical properties to each other but are distinct from the A form. The sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis demonstrates apparent monomer molecular masses as 14 A 18 B 2 and 22 B 1 kDa.

The amino acid sequence of auracyanin A has been determined and showed auracyanin A to be a polypeptide of 139 residues. Van Dreissche et al. Protein Science 8 947 957 1999 . His58 Cys123 His128 and Met132 are spaced in a way to be expected if they are the evolutionary conserved metal ligands as in the known small copper proteins plastocyanin and azurin. Secondary structure prediction also indicates that auracyanin has a general beta barrel structure similar to that of azurin from and plastocyanin from poplar leaves. However auracyanin appears to have sequence characteristics of both small copper protein sequence classes. The overall similarity with a consensus sequence of azurin is roughly the same as that with a consensus sequence of plastocyanin namely 30.5 . The N terminal sequence region 1 18 of auracyanin is remarkably rich in glycine and hydroxy amino acids. Id. See exemplary amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 15 for chain A of auracyanin from NCBI Protein Data Bank Accession No. AAM12874 .

The auracyanin B molecule has a standard cupredoxin fold. The crystal structure of auracyanin B from has been studied. Bond et al. J. Mol. Biol. 306 47 67 2001 . With the exception of an additional N terminal strand the molecule is very similar to that of the bacterial cupredoxin azurin. As in other cupredoxins one of the Cu ligands lies on strand 4 of the polypeptide and the other three lie along a large loop between strands 7 and 8. The Cu site geometry is discussed with reference to the amino acid spacing between the latter three ligands. The crystallographically characterized Cu binding domain of auracyanin B is probably tethered to the periplasmic side of the cytoplasmic membrane by an N terminal tail that exhibits significant sequence identity with known tethers in several other membrane associated electron transfer proteins. The amino acid sequences of the B forms are presented in McManus et al. J. Biol. Chem. 267 6531 6540 1992 . See exemplary amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 16 for chain B of auracyanin from NCBI Protein Data Bank Accession No. 1QHQA .

Stellacyanins are a subclass of phtocyanins a ubiquitous family of plant cupredoxins. An exemplary sequence of a stellacyanin is included herein as SEQ ID NO 14. The crystal structure of umecyanin a stellacyanin from horseradish root Koch et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127 158 166 2005 and cucumber stellacyanin Hart et al. 5 2175 2183 1996 is also known. The protein has an overall fold similar to the other phytocyanins. The ephrin B2 protein ectodomain tertiary structure bears a significant similarity to stellacyanin. Toth et al. Developmental Cell 1 83 92 2001 . An exemplary amino acid sequence of a stellacyanin is found in the National Center for Biotechnology information Protein Data Bank as Accession No. 1JER SEQ ID NO 14.

An exemplary amino acid sequence from a cucumber basic protein is included herein as SEQ ID NO 17. The crystal structure of the cucumber basic protein CBP a type 1 blue copper protein has been refined at 1.8 resolution. The molecule resembles other blue copper proteins in having a Greek key beta barrel structure except that the barrel is open on one side and is better described as a beta sandwich or beta taco . Guss et al. J. Mol. Biol. 262 686 705 1996 . The ephrinB2 protein ectodomian tertiary structure bears a high similarity rms deviation 1 for the 50 carbons to the cucumber basic protein. Toth et al. Developmental Cell 183 92 2001 .

The Cu atom has the normal blue copper NNSS co ordination with bond lengths Cu N His39 193 A Cu S Cys79 2.16 A Cu N His84 1.95 A Cu S Met89 2.61 A. A disulphide link Cys52 S S Cys85 appears to play an important role in stabilizing the molecular structure. The polypeptide fold typical of a sub family of blue copper proteins phytocyanins as well as a non metalloprotein ragweed allergen Ra3 with which CBP has a high degree of sequence identity. The proteins currently identifiable as phytocyanins are CBP stellacyanin mavicyanin umecyanin a cucumber peeling cupredoxin a putative blue copper protein in pea pods and a blue copper protein from . In all except CBP and the pea pod protein the axial methionine ligand normally found at blue copper sites is replaced by glutamine. An exemplary sequence for cucumber basic protein is found in NCBI Protein Data Bank Accession No. 2CBP SEQ ID NO 17.

The invention provides methods to prevent de novo malignancies in otherwise healthy patients comprising administering to the patient at least one peptide that is a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof as described above. Chemopreventive therapies are based on the hypothesis that the interruption of processes involved in cancergenesis will prevent the development of cancer. The cupredoxin azurin and the truncated azurin peptide p28 are now known to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions either by inhibiting the initial formation of premalignant lesions or killing or inhibiting the growth of premalignant lesions that are present. It therefore contemplated that a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof as described above with the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions may be used in chemopreventive therapies in otherwise healthy patients. Such otherwise healthy patients are in some embodiments patients at a higher risk to develop cancer than those in the general population. Cancers that may be prevented by treatment with the compositions of the invention include but are not limited to melanoma breast pancreas glioblastoma astrocytoma lung colorectal neck and head bladder prostate skin and cervical cancer. In some embodiments the patient may be human. In other embodiments the patient is not human.

The invention further includes methods to study the development of cancer comprising contacting mammalian cells before or after induction with a carcinogen with a composition comprising cupredoxin or a variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof and observing the development of the cells. In some embodiments the cells are mouse mammary gland cells while in others they are other cells that may become malignant in mammals.

Patients at a higher at risk to develop cancer than the general population may be patients with high risk features patients with premalignant lesions and patients that have been cured of their initial cancer or definitively treated for their premalignant lesions. See generally Tsao et al. CA Cancer J Clin 54 150 180 2004 . High risk features may be behavioral genetic environmental or physiological factors of the patient. Behavioral factors that predispose a patient to various forms of cancer include but are not limited to smoking diet alcohol consumption hormone replacement therapy higher body mass index nulliparity betal nut use frequent mouthwash use exposure to human papillomavirus childhood and chronic sun exposure early age of first intercourse multiple sexual partners and oral contraceptive use. Genetic factors that predispose a patient to various forms of cancer include but are not limited to a family history of cancer gene carrier status of BRCA1 and BRCA2 prior history of breast neoplasia familial adenomatous polyposis FAP hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer HNPCC red or blond hair and fair skinned phenotype xeroderma pigmentosum and ethnicity. Environmental features that predispose a patient to various forms of cancer include but are not limited to exposure to radon polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons nickel chromate arsenic asbestos chloromethyl ethers benzo a pyrene radiation and aromatic amines from rubber or paint occupational exposure. Other miscellaneous factors that predispose a patient to various forms of cancer include but are not limited to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with airflow obstruction chronic bladder infections schistosomiasis older age and immunocompromised status.

Additionally patients at a higher risk of developing cancer may be determined by the use of various risk models that have been developed for certain kinds of cancer. For example patients predisposed to breast cancer may be determined using the Gail risk model or the Claus model among others. See Gail et al. J Natl Cancer Inst 81 1879 1886 1989 Cuzick Breast 12 405 411 2003 Huang et al. Am J Epidemiol 151 703 714 2000 .

Patients with premalignant lesions are at a higher risk to develop cancer than the general population. The presence of premalignant lesions in or on a patient may be determined by many methods that are well known to those in the art. Intermediate markers or biomarkers that originate from premalignant lesions may be measured in a patient to determine if the patient harbors premalignant lesions. Chromosomal abnormalities occur in tumor cells and the adjacent histologically normal tissues in the majority of cancer patients. Progression in chromosomal abnormalities parallels the phenotypic progression from premalignant lesion to invasive cancer. Thiberville et al. Cancer Res. 55 5133 5139 1995 . Therefore chromosomal abnormalities associated with cancer may be used as intermediate markers to detect premalignant lesions in a patient. Common chromosomal abnormalities associated with cancer include but are not limited to allelic deletions or loss of heterozygosity LOH in tumor suppressor genes such as 3p FHIT and others 9p 9p21 for p16 p15 and p19 17p 17p13 for p53 gene and others and 13q 13q14 for retinoblastoma gene Rb and others . Deletions in 3p and 9p are associated with smoking and the early stages of lung cancer. Mao et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 89 857 862 1997 . Deletions affecting 3p 5q 8p 17p and 18q are common change in epithelial cancers. See generally Tsao et al. CA Clin. Cancer J. Clin. 54 153 2004 . Other chromosomal mutations associated with cancer include those which activate oncogenes. Oncogenes whose presence may be used as intermediate markers include but are not limited to Ras c myc epidemral growth factor erb B2 and cyclins E D1 and B1. See generally id. at 154.

Other intermediate markers may be the products of genes up regulated in premalignant cells and cancer cells. Genes that may be up regulated in premalignant cells include but are not limited to cyclooxygenases COX 1 and COX 2 telomerase. Other biomarkers of cancer cells and some premalignant cells include but are not limited to p53 epidermal growth factor receptor GFR proliferating cell nuclear antigen PCNA RAS COX 2 Ki 67 DNA aneuploidy DNA polymerase ER Her2neu E cadherin RAR hTERT p16 FHIT 3p14 Bcl 2 VEGF R HPV infection LOH 9p21 LOH 17p p AKT hnRNP A2 B1 RAF Myc c KIT cyclin D1 E and 13q IGF1 bc1 2 p16 LOH 3p21.3 LOH 3p25 LOH9p21 LOH7p13q LOH13q LOH 8p hMSH2 APC DCC DPC4 JV18 BAX PSA GSTP1 NF kB AP1 D3S2 HPV infection LOH 3p14 LOH 4q LOH 5p bladder tumor antigen BTA BTK TRAK Alidex Inc. Redmond Wash. urinary tract matrix protein 22 fibrin degradation product autodrine motility factor receptor BCLA 4 cytokeratin 20 hyaluronic acid CYFRA 21 1 BCA beta human chorionic gonadotropin and tissue polypeptide antigen TPA . See generally id. at 155 157.

Patients that have been cured of their initial cancers or have been definitively treated for their premalignant lesions are also at a higher risk to develop cancer than the general population. A second primary tumor refers to a new primary cancer in a person with a history of cancer. Second primary tumors are the leading cause of mortality in head and neck cancer. Id. at 150. A second primary tumor is distinct from a metastasis in that the former originates de nova while the later originates from an existing tumor. Patients that have been cured of cancer or premalignant lesions of the breast head and neck lung and skin are at a particularly high risk to develop second prima tumors.

The compositions comprising a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof can be administered to the patient by many routes and in many regimens that will be well known to those in the art. In specific embodiments the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof is administered intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously topically orally or by inhalation. The compositions may be administered to the patient by any means that delivers the peptides to the site in the patient that is at risk of developing cancer. In specific embodiments the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof is administered intravenously.

In one embodiment the methods may comprise co administering to a patient one unit dose of a composition comprising a cupredoxin or a variant derivative or structural equivalent of cupredoxin and one unit dose of a composition comprising another chemopreventive drug in either order administered at about the same time or within about a given time following the administration of the other for example about one minute to about 60 minutes following the administration of the other drug or about 1 hour to about 12 hours following the administration of the other drug. Chemopreventive drugs of interest include but are not limited to tamoxifen aromatase inhibitors such as letrozole and anastrozole Arimidex retinoids such as N 4 hydroxyphenyl retinamide 4 HPR fenretinide nonsteriodal antiinflammatory agents NSAIDs such as aspirin and sulindac celecoxib COX 2 inhibitor defluoromethylomithing DFMO ursodeoxycholic acid 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors EKI 785 EGFR inhibitor bevacizumab antibody to VEGF receptor cetuximab antibody to EGFR retinol such as vitamin A beta carotene 13 cis retinoic acid isotretinoin and retinyl palmitate tocopherol interferon oncolytic adenovirus dl1520 ONYX 015 gefitinib etretinate finasteride indole 3 carbinol resveratrol chlorogenic acid raloxifene and oltipraz.

Pharmaceutical Compositions Comprising Cupredoxin or Variant Derivative or Structural Equivalent Thereof

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalents thereof can be manufactured in any conventional manner e.g. by conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes. The substantially pure or pharmaceutical grade cupredoxin or variants derivatives and structural equivalents thereof can be readily combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier well known in the art. Such carriers enable the preparation to be formulated as a tablet pill dragee capsule liquid gel syrup slurry suspension and the like. Suitable carriers or excipients can also include for example fillers and cellulose preparations. Other excipients can include for example flavoring agents coloring agents detackifiers thickeners and other acceptable additives adjuvants or binders. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical preparation is substantially free of preservatives. In other embodiments the pharmaceutical preparation may contain at least one preservative. General methodology on pharmaceutical dosage forms is found in Ansel et al. Lippencott Williams Wilkins Baltimore Md. 1999 .

The composition comprising a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof used in the invention may be administered in a variety of ways including by injection e.g. intradermal subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitoneal and the like by inhalation by topical administration by suppository by using a transdermal patch or by mouth. General information on drug delivery systems can be found in Ansel et al. id. In some embodiments the composition comprising a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof can be formulated and used directly as injectibles for subcutaneous and intravenous injection among others. The injectable formulation in particular can advantageously be used to treat patients that are appropriate for chemopreventive therapy. The composition comprising a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof can also be taken orally after mixing with protective agents such as polypropylene glycols or similar coating agents.

When administration is by injection the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof may be formulated in aqueous solutions specifically in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hanks solution Ringer s solution or physiological saline buffer. The solution may contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof may be in powder for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition does not comprise an adjuvant or any other substance added to enhance the immune response stimulated by the peptide. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition comprises a substance that inhibits an immune response to the peptide.

When administration is by intravenous fluids the intravenous fluids for use administrating the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof may be composed of crystalloids or colloids. Crystalloids as used herein are aqueous solutions of mineral salts or other water soluble molecules. Colloids as used herein contain larger insoluble molecules such as gelatin. Intravenous fluids may be sterile.

Crystalloid fluids that may be used for intravenous administration include but are not limited to normal saline a solution of sodium chloride at 0.9 concentration Ringer s lactate or Ringer s solution and a solution of 5 dextrose in water sometimes called D5W as described in Table 2.

When administration is by inhalation the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof may be delivered in the form of an aerosol spray from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of the proteins and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

When administration is by topical administration the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof may be formulated as solutions gels ointments creams jellies suspensions and the like as are well known in the art. In some embodiments administration is by means of a transdermal patch. When administration is by suppository e.g. rectal or vaginal cupredoxin or variants and derivatives thereof compositions may also be formulated in compositions containing conventional suppository bases.

When administration is oral a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof can be readily formulated by combining the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. A solid carrier such as mannitol lactose magnesium stearate and the like may be employed such carriers enable the cupredoxin and variants derivatives or structural equivalent thereof to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a subject to be treated. For oral solid formulations such as for example powders capsules and tablets suitable excipients include fillers such as sugars cellulose preparation granulating agents and binding agents.

Other convenient carriers as well known in the art also include multivalent carriers such as bacterial capsular polysaccharide a dextran or a genetically engineered vector. In addition sustained release formulations that include a cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof allow for the release of cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof over extended periods of time such that without the sustained release formulation the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof would be cleared from a subject s system and or degraded by for example proteases and simple hydrolysis before eliciting or enhancing a therapeutic effect.

The half life in the bloodstream of the peptides of the invention can be extended or optimized by several methods well known to those in the art. The peptide variants of the invention may include but are not limited to various variants that may increase their stability specific activity longevity in the bloodstream and or decrease immunogenicity of the cupredoxin while retaining the ability of the peptide to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells tissues and animals. Such variants include but are not limited to those which decrease the hydrolysis of the peptide decrease the deamidation of the peptide decrease the oxidation decrease the immunogenicity increase the structural stability of the peptide or increase the size of the peptide. Such peptides also include circularized peptides see Monk et al. BioDrugs 19 4 261 78 2005 DeFreest et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 5 409 19 2004 D L peptides diastereomer Futaki et al. J. Biol. Chem. February 23 276 8 5836 40 2001 Papo et al. Cancer Res. 64 16 5779 86 2004 Miller et al. Biochem. Pharmacol. 36 1 169 76 1987 peptides containing unusual amino acids see Lee et al. J. Pept. Res. 63 2 69 84 2004 N and C terminal modifications see Labrie et al. Clin. Invest. Med. 13 5 275 8 1990 hydrocarbon stapling see Schafmeister et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 5891 5892 2000 Walenski et al. Science 305 1466 1470 2004 and PEGylation.

In various embodiments the pharmaceutical composition includes carriers and excipients including but not limited to buffers carbohydrates mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants bacteriostats chelating agents suspending agents thickening agents and or preservatives water oils saline solutions aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions other pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents wetting agents and the like. It will be recognized that while any suitable carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be employed to administer the compositions of this invention the type of carrier will vary depending on the mode of administration. Compounds may also be encapsulated within liposomes using well known technology. Biodegradable microspheres may also be employed as carriers for the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention. Suitable biodegradable microspheres are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 897 268 5 075 109 5 928 647 5 811 128 5 820 883 5 853 763 5 814 344 and 5 942 252.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be sterilized by conventional well known sterilization techniques or may be sterile filtered. The resulting aqueous solutions may be packaged for use as is or lyophilized the lyophilized preparation being combined with a sterile solution prior to administration.

The cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof can be administered formulated as pharmaceutical compositions and administered by any suitable route for example by oral buccal inhalation sublingual rectal vaginal transurethral nasal topical percutaneous i.e. transdermal or parenteral including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and intracoronary or vitreous administration. The pharmaceutical formulations thereof can be administered in any amount effective to achieve its intended purpose. More specifically the composition is administered in a therapeutically effective amount. In specific embodiments the therapeutically effective amount is generally from about 0.01 20 mg day kg of body weight.

The compounds comprising cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof are useful for the prevention of cancer alone or in combination with other active agents. The appropriate dosage will of course vary depending upon for example the compound of cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof employed the host the mode of administration and the nature and severity of the potential cancer. However in general satisfactory results in humans are indicated to be obtained at daily dosages from about 0.01 20 mg kg of body weight. An indicated daily dosage in humans is in the range from about 0.7 mg to about 1400 mg of a compound of cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof conveniently administered for example in daily doses weekly doses monthly doses and or continuous dosing. Daily doses can be in discrete dosages from 1 to 12 times per day. Alternatively doses can be administered every other day every third day every fourth day every fifth day every sixth day every week and similarly in day increments up to 31 days or over. Alternatively dosing can be continuous using patches i.v. administration and the like.

The exact formulation route of administration and dosage is determined by the attending physician in view of the patient s condition. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the active cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof which are sufficient to maintain therapeutic effect. Generally the desired cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof is administered in an admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice.

In one aspect the cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof is delivered as DNA such that the polypeptide is generated in situ. In one embodiment the DNA is naked as described for example in Ulmer et al. Science 259 1745 1749 993 and reviewed by Cohen Science 259 1691 1692 1993 . The uptake of naked DNA may be increased by coating the DNA onto a carrier e.g. biodegradable beads which are then efficiently transported into the cells. In such methods the DNA may be present within any of a variety of delivery systems known to those of ordinary skill in the art including nucleic acid expression systems bacterial and viral expression systems. Techniques for incorporating DNA into such expression systems are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. See e.g. WO90 11092 WO93 24640 WO 93 17706 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 524.

Vectors used to shuttle genetic material from organism to organism can be divided into two general classes Cloning vectors are replicating plasmid or phage with regions that are essential for propagation in an appropriate host cell and into which foreign DNA can be inserted the foreign DNA is replicated and propagated as if it were a component of the vector. An expression vector such as a plasmid yeast or animal virus genome is used to introduce foreign genetic material into a host cell or tissue in order to transcribe and translate the foreign DNA such as the DNA of a cupredoxin. In expression vectors the introduced DNA is operably linked to elements such as promoters that signal to the host cell to highly transcribe the inserted DNA. Some promoters are exceptionally useful such as inducible promoters that control gene transcription in response to specific factors. Operably linking a cupredoxin and variants and derivatives thereof polynucleotide to an inducible promoter can control the expression of the cupredoxin and variants and derivatives thereof in response to specific factors. Examples of classic inducible promoters include those that are responsive to interferon heat shock heavy metal ions and steroids such as glucocorticoids Kaufman Methods Enzymol. 185 487 511 1990 and tetracycline. Other desirable inducible promoters include those that are not endogenous to the cells in which the construct is being introduced but are responsive in those cells when the induction agent is exogenously supplied. In general useful expression vectors are often plasmids. However other forms of expression vectors such as viral vectors e.g. replication defective retroviruses adenoviruses and adeno associated viruses are contemplated.

Vector choice is dictated by the organism or cells being used and the desired fate of the vector. In general vectors comprise signal sequences origins of replication marker genes polylinker sites enhancer elements promoters and transcription termination sequences.

In one aspect the invention provides regimens or kits comprising one or more of the following in a package or container 1 a pharmacologically active composition comprising at least one cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalent thereof 2 an additional chemopreventive drug 3 apparatus to administer the biologically active composition to the patient such as a syringe nebulizer etc.

When a kit is supplied the different components of the composition may be packaged in separate containers if appropriate and admixed immediately before use. Such packaging of the components separately may permit long term storage without losing the active components functions.

The reagents included in the kits can be supplied in containers of any sort such that the life of the different components are preserved and are not adsorbed or altered by the materials of the container. For example sealed glass ampules may contain lyophilized cupredoxin and variants derivatives and structural equivalents thereof or buffers that have been packaged under a neutral non reacting gas such as nitrogen. Ampules may consist of any suitable material such as glass organic polymers such as polycarbonate polystyrene etc. ceramic metal or any other material typically employed to hold similar reagents. Other examples of suitable containers include simple bottles that may be fabricated from similar substances as ampules and envelopes that may comprise foil lined interiors such as aluminum or an alloy. Other containers include test tubes vials flasks bottles syringes or the like. Containers may have a sterile access port such as a bottle having a stopper that can be pierced by a hypodermic injection needle. Other containers may have two compartments that are separated by a readily removable membrane that upon removal permits the components to be mixed. Removable membranes may be glass plastic rubber etc.

Kits may also be supplied with instructional materials. Instructions may be printed on paper or other substrate and or may be supplied as an electronic readable medium such as a floppy disc CD ROM DVD ROM Zip disc videotape audiotape flash memory device etc. Detailed instructions may not be physically associated with the kit instead a user may be directed to an internet web site specified by the manufacturer or distributor of the kit or supplied as electronic mail.

Cupredoxin or variant derivative or structural equivalents thereof may be chemically modified or genetically altered to produce variants and derivatives as explained above. Such variants and derivatives may be synthesized by standard techniques.

In addition to naturally occurring allelic variants of cupredoxin changes can be introduced by mutation into cupredoxin coding sequence that incur alterations in the amino acid sequences of the encoded cupredoxin that do not significantly alter the ability of cupredoxin to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions. A non essential amino acid residue is a residue that can be altered from the wild type sequences of the cupredoxin without altering pharmacologic activity whereas an essential amino acid residue is required for such pharmacologic activity. For example amino acid residues that are conserved among the cupredoxins are predicted to be particularly non amenable to alteration and thus essential. 

Amino acids for which conservative substitutions that do not change the pharmacologic activity of the polypeptide can be made are well known in the art. Useful conservative substitutions are shown in Table 3 Preferred substitutions. Conservative substitutions whereby an amino acid of one class is replaced with another amino acid of the same type fall within the scope of the invention so long as the substitution does not materially alter the pharmacologic activity of the compound.

Non conservative substitutions that affect 1 the structure of the polypeptide backbone such as a sheet or helical conformation 2 the charge 3 hydrophobicity or 4 the bulk of the side chain of the target site can modify the pharmacologic activity. Residues are divided into groups based on common side chain properties as denoted in Table 4. Non conservative substitutions entail exchanging a member of one of these classes for another class. Substitutions may be introduced into conservative substitution sites or more specifically into non conserved sites.

The variant polypeptides can be made using methods known in the art such as oligonucleotide mediated site directed mutagenesis alanine scanning and PCR mutagenesis. Site directed mutagenesis Carter Biochem J. 237 1 7 1986 Zoller and Smith Methods Enzymol. 154 329 350 1987 cassette mutagenesis restriction selection mutagenesis Wells et al. Gene 34 315 323 1985 or other known techniques can be performed on the cloned DNA to produce the cupredoxin variant DNA.

Known mutations of cupredoxins can also be used to create variant cupredoxin to be used in the methods of the invention. For example the C112D and M44KM64E mutants of azurin are known to have cytotoxic and growth arresting activity that is different from the native azurin and such altered activity can be useful in the treatment methods of the present invention.

A more complete understanding of the present invention can be obtained by reference to the following specific Examples. The Examples are described solely for purposes of illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Changes in form and substitution of equivalents are contemplated as circumstances may suggest or render expedient. Although specific terms have been employed herein such terms are intended in a descriptive sense and not for purposes of limitations. Modifications and variations of the invention as hereinbefore set forth can be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

The mouse mammary gland organ culture MMOC model allows evaluating efficacy of potentially chemopreventive agents against development of mammary alveolar lesions MAL or mammary ductal lesions MDL in response to DMBA. DMBA under appropriate incubation conditions form either MAL or MDL based on the hormonal milieu in the medium. Hawthorne et al. Pharmaceutical Biology 40 70 74 2002 Mehta et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 93 1103 1106 2001 . Estrogen and progesterone treated glands in culture develop ductal lesions whereas aldosterone and hydrocortisone treated glands form estrogen and progesterone independent alveolar lesions. Mammary glands not exposed to a carcinogen or chemopreventive agent undergo structural regression in the absence of growth promoting hormones whereas treatment with DMBA for the 24 hr period between days 3 and 4 prevents the regression of structures caused by deprivation of hormones. It is assumed that this is because the glands have lost normal hormonal responsiveness and now have altered their course of development. Generating mammary adenocarcinoma by transplanting transformed cells into syngeneic mice has proved the premalignant preneoplastic nature of these unrepressed areas.

The thoracic pair of mammary glands was excised aseptically from each Balb c mouse and the glands were divided into several groups. The effects of p28 were evaluated at 4 different dilutions in the medium. Carcinogen treated glands without the test agent served as a measure to determine percent incidence in the absence of a chemopreventive agent. An additional control was included to serve as a positive control for chemoprevention. Azurin was included in the medium at 50 g ml concentration. For alveolar lesions MAL stained glands were evaluated for the incidence of lesions glands containing any lesions as compared to total number of glands in a given treatment group . For the ductal lesions MDL similar protocol was adapted however as indicated below in the methods section the hormonal combination is different for alveolar and ducal lesions. The glands were fixed in formalin and then processed for histopathology. The sections are stained with eosin and hematoxelene and evaluated under microscope. Here the multiplicity of ductal lesions between the control and the treatment groups are compared.

Organ Culture Procedure. The experimental animals used for the studies were young virgin BALB c female mice 3 to 4 weeks of age obtained from Charles River Wilmington Mass. The mice were treated daily by subcutaneous injections with 1 g estradiol 17 1 mg progesterone for 9 days. This treatment is a prerequisite inasmuch as animals not pretreated with steroids fail to respond to hormones in vitro. The entire culture procedure is described in detail. Jang et al. Science 275 218 220 1997 Mehta Eu. J. Cancer 36 1275 1282 2000 Mehta et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 89 212 219 1997 Mehta et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 93 1103 1106 2001 .

Briefly the animals were killed by cervical dislocation and the thoracic pair of mammary glands were dissected out on silk rafts and incubated for 10 days in serum free Waymouth MB752 1 medium 5 glands 5 ml dish . The medium was supplemented with glutamine antibiotics penicillin and streptomycin 100 units ml medium and growth promoting hormones 5 g insulin I 5 g prolactin P 1 g aldosterone A and 1 g hydrocortisone H per ml of medium for the protocol to induce mammary alveolar lesions MAL . For induction of ductal lesions MDL the medium contained 5 g ml 5 g ml P 0.001 g ml estradiol 17 and 1 g ml progesterone Pg . Mehta et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 93 1103 1106 2001 . The carcinogen DMBA 2 g ml was added to the medium between days 3 and 4. For the present study DMBA was dissolved in DMSO at a final concentration of 4 mg ml and 50 g I was added to 100 ml medium resulting in 2 g ml final concentrations. The control dishes contained DMSO as vehicle.

On day 4 DMBA is removed from the medium by rinsing the glands in fresh medium and transferring them to new dishes containing fresh medium without DMBA. After 10 days of incubation the glands were maintained for another 14 days in the medium containing only I 5 g ml . During the entire culture period the glands were maintained at 37 C. under 95 Oand 5 COenvironment. The chemopreventive agent was included in the medium during the first ten days of growth promoting phase. The test peptide p28 was evaluated at 4 concentrations ranging from 12.5 g ml to 100 g ml. Azurin was evaluated at 50 g ml in the medium. The peptide was dissolved in sterile water and filtered prior to use. The medium was changed three times per week Monday Wednesday and Friday . At the end of the exposure the glands were fixed in formalin.

Morphometric Analysis of MAL. For examination of MAL the glands were stained in alum carmine and evaluated for the presence of the lesions. The glands were scored for the presence or absence of mammary lesions severity of lesions per gland and toxicity of the agent. The glands stored in xylene were evaluated for the presence or absence incidence and severity of mammary lesions for each gland under a dissecting microscope. Mammary glands were scored as positive or negative for mammary lesions and the percent incidence was determined as a ratio of glands exhibiting lesions and the total number of glands in that group. Dilation of ducts or disintegration of mammary structure because of treatment with chemopreventive agent was considered a toxic effect. The data were subjected to statistical analysis for the incidence to determine the effectiveness of the potential chemopreventive agents.

Histopathological Evaluation of MDL. For MDL the glands were processed for histopathological evaluations. The glands were sectioned longitudinally into 5 micron sections and stained with eosin hematoxeline. The longitudinal section of each gland was divided into several fields and each field was evaluated for ductal lesions. Mehta et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 93 1103 1106 2001 . Briefly the entire gland is evaluated under the scope smaller glands will have fewer total fields as compared to larger glands. Thus each gland will have variable number of fields Often the number of sections through the ducts also varies greatly from gland to gland. This results in the variable number from group to group. Fields containing ductal hyperplasia or atypia were determined and were compared with total number of field evaluated for each gland. No discrimination is made between the hyperplasia or atypia and severely occluded glands. Any field containing any of these histological patterns was considered positive for the lesion. The treatment groups were compared with the controls for the severity and percent inhibition was calculated.

This example indicates that both p28 and azurin can prevent the development of precancerous lesions in breast tissue. Thus p28 and azurin may be used as chemopreventive agents in mammalian patients.

