---

title: High-efficiency air intake for aerosol air samplers
abstract: The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for redirecting a flow of aerosol-containing air into, for example, an aerosol sampler. The apparatus comprising a device for redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol-containing air into an air intake disposed within the flow of aerosol-containing air, preferably using eduction caused by a pressurized gas stream. A sampling tube having an opening for receiving aerosol-containing air is disposed within the air intake to collect the redirected portion of aerosol containing air.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07690276&OS=07690276&RS=07690276
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07690276
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071128
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates to air sampling and in particular sampling of air that contains aerosol particles. More specifically the present invention relates to the taking of aerosol containing air samples in settings where sharp changes of airflow direction in the vicinity of the intake of the air sampler can adversely affect the acquisition of airborne aerosol particles.

Aerosols consist of small particles liquid or solid that are suspended in air. Airborne dust particles virus particles and bacteria can also comprise an aerosol.

The study of aerosols has significance in many areas such as environmental and health studies Homeland Security and military defense especially when the aerosol particles are pathogens. The device for collecting aerosol particles commonly known as an aerosol sampler is a critical component for these studies its function is to collect aerosol containing air and to characterize the concentration and type of the aerosol particles contained in the air.

Aerosol particles entrained in moving air have mass and velocity vectors i.e. they have momentum as they are collected for sampling. Because aerosol particles have inertia they resist changes in their velocity vectors as their paths carry them into and through sampling collectors.

In a typical aerosol sampler the aerosol containing ambient air is first aspirated into the air sampler system through the air intake or inlet and thence transmitted to the rest of the sampler sometimes through a system of transmission tubes or ducts so as to convey the aerosol containing air sample to the measurement portion of the aerosol sampling device.

One of the basic performance parameters for an aerosol sampler is sampling efficiency. Overall sampling efficiency is the ratio of amount of aerosol material in the collected sample C to the amount of aerosol in the air C being sampled. It is usually calculated as the ratio of particles collected per volume of air sampled to the concentration C of particles in the ambient air. 

The goal of unbiased aerosol air sampling is to measure the actual amount of aerosol measured as the number of aerosol particles or as the weight of the airborne aerosol material in an air sample that is as representative as possible of the air being sampled.

Aerosol air sampling often takes place in windy settings wherein the sampled air has to be pulled from horizontal flow into a vertically oriented air intake. Because of the inertial aspects of aerosol particles the change in direction from horizontal to vertical can cause a portion of the massive aerosol particles to overshoot the air intake and also to impact against and lodge upon the walls of the air intake sampling tube.

Therefore a goal of aerosol air sampling is to collect air samples in such a way that is as close to 1 as possible regardless of wind direction and speed or particle size. It may also be desirable for to be greater than 1 if one wants to maximize the amount of aerosol collected. A high efficiency air intake is one that is resistant to the influence of wind upon collecting efficiency. A high efficiency air intake is important for the gathering of reliable aerosol air sampling data.

According to the present invention there is disclosed an apparatus for redirecting a flow of aerosol containing air comprising an air intake disposed within the flow of aerosol containing air a structure for redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol containing air into the air intake and a sampling tube having an opening for receiving aerosol containing air disposed within the air intake.

Further according to the present invention the structure for redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol containing air into the air intake comprises a source of pressurized gas and a structure for injecting the pressurized gas into the air intake so as to cause the flow of the portion of aerosol containing air in the air intake.

Also according to the present invention the structure for injecting the pressurized gas into the air intake comprises an annular conduit within the air intake for directing the pressurized gas downstream of the opening of the sampling tube. The air intake comprises a converging inlet portion an intermediate cylindrical portion and a diverging portion. The annular conduit is disposed within the intermediate cylindrical portion so that an inlet of the annular conduit receives the pressurized gas and an outlet of the annular conduit directs the pressurized gas past the opening of the sampling tube.

Still further according to the present invention the source of pressurized gas is a manifold which receives the pressurized gas from the exhaust of an air sampling device.

Yet further according to the present invention the air intake has a longitudinal axis extending therethrough and is circular thereabout.

Still further according to the present invention the sampling tube has an inlet opening disposed within the cylindrical portion of the air intake. The sampling tube can have a shroud disposed about the inlet opening to direct aerosol containing air into the sampling tube and generally speaking the sampling tube shrouded or unshrouded is concentric with the longitudinal axis extending through the air intake.

Also according to the present invention the structure for redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol containing air into the air intake comprises a gas pump disposed near an outlet opening of the diverging portion so as to cause the flow of the portion of aerosol containing air in the air intake.

According to the present invention there is disclosed a method for redirecting a flow of aerosol containing air comprising the steps of disposing an air intake within the flow of aerosol containing air redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol containing air into the air intake and receiving aerosol containing air within an inlet opening of a sampling tube.

Further according to the present invention the step of redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol containing air into the air intake comprises the steps of providing a source of pressurized gas and injecting the pressurized gas into the air intake so as to cause the flow of the portion of aerosol containing air in the air intake. The step of injecting the pressurized gas into the air intake comprises the step of directing the pressurized gas past the inlet opening of the sampling tube.

Still further according to the present invention the method uses an air intake that comprises a converging inlet portion an intermediate cylindrical portion and a diverging portion. An annular conduit is disposed within the intermediate cylindrical portion so that an inlet of the annular conduit receives the pressurized gas and an outlet of the annular conduit directs the pressurized gas past the opening of the sampling tube.

Yet further according to the present invention the step of redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol containing air into the air intake comprises a step of disposing a gas pump disposed near an outlet opening of the diverging portion so as to cause the flow of the portion of aerosol containing air in the air intake.

 Aerosol is defined herein as a dispersion of solid and liquid particles suspended in gas including virus particles and bacteria.

 Eduction is defined herein as the tendency of a flow of gas or liquid to entrain molecules that are adjacent to the flow. The mechanism of eduction derives from the inherent molecular motions of liquids and gases that is to say when a jet of say air is blown into a volume of stationary air the motions of the molecules in the jet have a small forward velocity compared to the random thermal motions which includes a lateral component that causes the jet molecules to engage stationary molecules and propel them in the direction of the jet flow. Educted flow refers to fluid motions imparted to ambient gases or liquids by a fluid jet.

 Air intake refers to the basic invention described herein. It is an air intake for an aerosol sampling device. The terms inlet air intake probe and intake probe refer to the actual air inlet tube through which aerosol laden air is drawn for analysis. The inlet probe is contained within the air intake and is generally concentric with it.

The dynamical aspect of degraded inlet efficiency in windy conditions is illustrated in . is a schematic orthogonal cross sectional view of a cylindrical tube air inlet of an aerosol air sampling system not shown . Wind direction is as indicated by the large arrow . The direction of air movement in the inlet tube is as indicated by the large black arrow . Curved arrow denotes the trajectory of an aerosol particle being diverted into the sampling tube and dashed line denotes the trajectory of the same aerosol particle if it had a mass equivalent to that of an oxygen or nitrogen molecule. That is to say the aerosol particle s actual trajectory has a larger radius of curvature than shown by the dashed line because of the aerosol s inertia causing it therefore to move away from the motion of the air molecules.

Referring still to the actual and ideal trajectories and respectively of another particle are also shown this time overshooting the wall of the sampling tube . In other words the actual trajectory of an aerosol particle carries the particle beyond the wall whereas the dashed line shows how the same particle would have entered the sampling tube if the aerosol particle following trajectory were to have had no greater inertia than that of an oxygen molecule.

The tendency as indicated in for the captured aerosol particles e.g. as represented by the arrow to have a velocity component that is normal to the axis of inlet tube also can cause a portion of the captured particles to impact against the inner wall surface and adhere to it thereby further degrading the collection efficiency of the inlet tube .

Aerosol particles are shown with arrows indicating the directional portions of their velocity vectors. The aerosol particles that are shown moving with the wind have a concentration that is graphically indicated by the particles contained within the region surrounded by dashed line A. The particles that are inside the enlarged circular air intake are bunched toward the down wind side of the enlarged circular air intake portion of the present invention . Note for instance the aerosol particles contained within the region indicated by dashed line B their concentration is portrayed as less than that of the particles contained within the region encircled by the dashed line A. The concentration of aerosol particles in the region bounded by the dashed line C is or plausibly would be to those skilled in the art slightly greater than within the free stream zone bounded by the dashed line A. The aerosol particles that have been drawn into the central sampling inlet tube and contained within the region bounded by the dashed line D have an air concentration that is portrayed in as equal to or close to equal to the concentration of the particles contained within the free stream bounded region indicated by the dashed line A. Furthermore in normal ambient outdoor wind velocities the aerosol concentration in region A should be approximately equal to the total concentration in regions B C and D combined.

In net effect the present invention as schematically demonstrated in the redirects the inlet flow of air from horizontal to vertical and aligns the flow of aerosol burdened air and in such as way as to allow aerosol particles to be captured in an air sampling inlet in such as way as to minimally disturb or otherwise influence the free stream aerosol particle concentration as indicated within the region that is bounded by the dashed line A.

The invention thus far described also includes a means for redirecting a portion of the flow of aerosol containing air into the air intake. More specifically the basic concept of the present invention as shown in shows a large volume of air being drawn into a large intake that is concentric with the sampling tube . The invention envisions the means for redirecting the large volume of vertically moving air to preferably be the method of eduction whereby a small flow of high velocity gas induces the flow of a larger volume of gas. However it is within the terms of the present invention to use other means and methods to induce the flow of a large volume of gas.

The mechanism of eduction can be envisioned by thinking of how a fluid jet into stationary air causes the jet to slow down as it conveys its momentum to the stationary air which is correspondingly accelerated in the direction of said jet. The present invention provides means for injecting pressurized gas into the air intake so as to cause the flow of the portion of aerosol containing air in the air intake.

The present invention is preferably related to eduction induced flow because as will become evident hereinbelow to those skilled in the art the present invention is intended to be retrofitted to the intake portions of existing sampling machines. It is also within the terms of the present invention to induce the larger flow within the larger tube as illustrated by the particles and motion arrows in by use of a fan or gas pump disposed far down stream of the inlet region of the sample tube . While this arrangement might not be as easy to adapt to or retrofit to existing air sampling machines nonetheless it is within the terms of the invention that a gas pump or fan could be disposed near an outlet opening of the diverging portion so as to cause the flow of the portion of aerosol containing air in the air intake. It is thought that the educted motion method of pumping air provides an elegant overall design that more easily allows retrofitting of the present invention to existing air sampling hardware.

The converging portion of air intake has a curved shaped surface formed according to a curve rotation. The curve being of the set of curves that includes circles and parabolas. The gently curving inlet portion converges with the cylindrical portion to form a smooth surface so as to minimize the onset of turbulent flow within and downstream of the central flow region . The diverging portion has a first section that can extend parallel to the centerline and a second diverging portion that can begin diverging below the end of the cylindrical portion a distance of about six inches. The diverging portion of the air intake diverges from the axis with an angle S of preferably about 3.5 degrees. It is however within the scope of the present invention that the angle of divergence can be 0 degrees i.e. the cylindrical portion of the air intake can continue to extend downward and effectively form an extension of the circular cylinder portion .

An air inlet sampling tube is disposed preferably concentrically within diverging portion and has an intake opening disposed at the same level or about 10 centimeters above the bottom end of the cylindrical portion of the air intake . The opposite end of the air inlet sampling tube is connected to an aerosol sampler not shown.

A circular manifold that can be concentric with the axis has an annular nozzle including a conduit located inward from the first section of diverging portion . The circular manifold can be connected to a supply of eduction driving air by way of the tube . The tube can communicate with a source of pressurized air as described herein below.

Referring to there is shown an expanded view of the mixing region about annular nozzle the mixing region is shown bounded by the dashed rectangle E in . Mixing region which is substantially annular in shape is where the eduction effect is shown to take place downstream of the annular nozzle . The motive air indicated by the air velocity arrows emerges from the annular nozzle and entrains the downward diverted aerosol containing air indicated by the air velocity arrows flowing within the central flow region . The motive air indicated by the air velocity arrows emerges from the annular nozzle . This annular flow provides a moving boundary layer between it and the aerosol laden air and a low pressure zone which entrains the downward diverted aerosol containing air. Therefore a high volume flow of aerosol laden air is induced within region in a substantially uniform way.

Note that annular ring nozzle can create a thin moving air layer with very little pressure drop if desired. Accordingly the velocity of the educted aerosol is controlled by the motive air flow rate and can be designed to present the aerosol to the sampling probe at air optimized velocity for either unbiased sampling if the aerosol flow velocity matches the sampling probe intake velocity known as isokinetic sampling or to maximize aerosol collection by ramming the particles into the probe intake a condition known as super isokinetic sampling .

The source of pressurized air to drive the eduction effect in many commercial applications is generally a portable air compressor. However in biological or environmental sampling applications as contemplated with respect to the present invention this educting air flow may be readily supplied on a sampler s mounting platform e.g. engine exhaust from a HUMVEE although contamination of the sampled air may be a concern in this scenario or steam on a Navy ship.

It is also within the terms of the present invention to use an alternative source of pressurized air i.e. reuse the energy already existing in the exhaust flow of the aerosol air sampler upon which the present invention is to be used. That is to say most aerosol air samplers use a blower to draw air through the inlet and sampling system and the exhausted air still has sufficient kinetic energy for use as to drive the eduction effect.

Such use of the exhausted gas from the air sampler does not affect the flow rate through the sampler. It is therefore within the terms of the present invention for the exhaust of the sampler not shown or a portion of the exhaust to be re routed to the annular collar manifold by means of tube which communicates between the manifold and the exhaust of the air sampler. This should be feasible if the pressure drop in the annular collar manifold is low so that it does not load the blower and reduce the primary flow which passes through the sampling system.

While the eduction method of pumping air can be achieved in an efficient way by injecting a curtain of gas from the annular opening of nozzle it is within the terms of the invention that the eduction can also be achieved by the injection of pressurized gas from a one or more single circular nozzles into the flow of diverted aerosol containing gas . In other words the injection of a single jet of gas into the air intake can transfer momentum to and entrain another gas such as air and by the eduction process cause air to move in the duct.

The overall result of eduction is a large increase in the volume flow rate of the inlet air by means of the use of a small volume of fast moving air in effect a flow amplifier. The advantage of using the eduction effect in the present invention is that it initiates and maintains the flow indicated by the arrows in B and in without requiring the use of a large blower on the actual inlet region bounded by the flow surfaces . This method of inducing a gentle redirection of the horizontal wind driven airflow into a vertical flow minimizes inertial losses of particles such that the concentration of air entrained aerosol particles is minimally affected by the changed direction of the air that is sampled. The eduction force which draws the air can easily overpower the ambient wind force and therefore eliminate or severely mitigate the wind sensitivity of aerosol air samplers.

To summarize the basic concept this aerosol sampling air intake device uses eduction to redirect ambient air containing aerosol particles towards a directional sampling probe which is oriented in the direction of air flow through an air intake device . The eduction zone see is vertically oriented so that it aspirates in an omni directional fashion large volumes of the ambient air.

A circular conical rain cover is shown in disposed over the top of the air inlet portion at an elevation H of between about 10 to about 20 centimeters sufficient to not interfere with the movement of air there beneath. The rain cover can be detachable from the main body of the air intake system . The conical shape of the rain cover is merely illustrative as other shapes clearly would suffice to block rain from falling onto the air intake system .

In the operation of air intake system aerosol containing air to be sampled as indicated by the arrows of is drawn into the air intake by means such as the method of the aforementioned eduction. That is the manifold directs pressurized gas into annular conduit . Being that the conduit is located within the intermediate cylindrical portion the pressurized gas is directed from the same height or below the inlet opening and in the direction past of the sampling tube to create a curtain of fast moving air that is discharged through the annular nozzle as an annular sheet of air moving in a downward direction as illustrated in more detail in . The aerosol containing air is drawn into the air intake by the curtain of fast moving pressurized gas. This causes the aerosol containing air to be sampled to be redirected into the air intake . Then the air that is captured in the air intake moves downward towards the air sampling probe and is captured in the probe for later evaluation as indicated by the arrow . The sampling tube has an inlet or opening at the tube s upper most location through which sampled gases indicated roughly by the arrows are captured for delivery into the air sampling machine not shown .

It can now be appreciated that the air intake apparatus of the present invention enables the redirecting of horizontal airflow into a downward directed flow in such a way as to make a gentle turn from the horizontal plane where the wind is a variable to a vertical direction where the downward directed flow has a constant direction and relatively constant velocity parallel to the vertically oriented axis of the air intake .

The air intake system thus far described combines the enhanced inlet efficiency of a directional sampling probe inlet with the wind direction insensitivity of the prior art omni directional inlet that comprises part of the method of achieving improved sampling efficiency. This will allow high efficiency aerosol sampling from moving air from any direction without the need to articulate an inlet tube of an air intake device such that its axis is in approximate alignment with the prevailing wind velocity vector. Since the wind vector variables exist mostly in a generally horizontal plane omni directional inlets are oriented vertically to maximize sampling efficiency and uniformity in conditions of wind from any direction. By orienting the inlet vertically however the flow must be turned 90 degrees downward as should be apparent to those who are skilled in the art.

Prior to the air intake system according to the present invention many sampling inefficiencies would be incurred because of the inability of the prior art to redirect the flow necessary for omni directional sampling as indicated with the .

In an additional embodiment an air intake apparatus incorporates a shrouded probe as illustrated in schematic fashion in . The additional shrouded probe can be used with the air intake apparatus shown in so as to insure yet further a high efficiency of collection of aerosol particles for sampling purposes. The shrouded probe includes a shroud portion which can be a circular cylindrical tube that surrounds and is concentric with an inlet tube compare inlet probe or tube in having an intake opening . The shroud provides the benefit of further aligning in a vertical way and parallel to the axis the movement of air to be sampled prior to its entering the inlet tube . It can be appreciated that the air intake apparatus is substantially similar to the air intake system shown in except for the addition of the shrouded probe in .

Two versions of the present invention were fabricated and tested in the U.S. Army s Edgewood Chemical Biological Center s Open Jet Aerosol Wind Tunnel in 2006. The two versions differed only in terms of the source of pressuring air to drive the eduction effect.

One version used a commercial air eductor which is intended to ventilate flammable gasses from confined spaces and was powered by compressed air from an air compressor to power the eduction effect. Also a shrouded inlet probe was used. The other version used exhaust air from the air sampling device not shown in the FIGURES to drive the eduction effect.

The initial test with the commercial eductor provided data that indicated that position of the probe relative to the annular collar of jets is important probably because of turbulence from the jets in the commercial eductor ventilator in the bottom part of the eductors diffusing cone . Best results were obtained when the top of the shrouded probe was at or above the annular ring nozzle that introduces the eductor flow. That is. referring to the top most portions and of the inlet tubes and respectively should be disposed with respect to the annular eduction air outlet so that the top edges are located upstream of the annular outlet a distance of about 10 to about 20 centimeters or at least at the same elevation.

A second tested version was fabricated to examine the use of sampler exhaust air as the eduction flow driver. This requires a very low pressure drop through the annular eductor ring manifold which for this test was custom fabricated from cardboard tubing. The biggest design difference between this eductor and the commercial air mover was that the commercial eductor uses an annular ring of jets which create a lot of back pressure whereas this second prototype made of cardboard created this annular ring of air by using two concentric tubes with mostly open space between them see in resulting in no detectable pressure drop.

The wind tunnel tests were conducted at wind speeds of 5 15 mph which are likely sampling environments for outdoor samplers and the test particles had a monodisperse size distribution around 5 um aerodynamic diameter which is a likely particle size of interest for bio defense and environmental heath sampling . The first version test used a sampling flow rate of 100 liters per minute lpm which is typical of current bio detection systems and the second version test used a flow rate of 400 lpm which is also representative of current commercial samplers.

The curve shows air intake efficiency varying from 100 percent to 120 percent. This first version test used a commercial eduction air mover driven by compressed air. That the collection efficiency achieved efficiencies greater than 100 percent indicates an enrichment of the airstream took place as the large volume of educted flow is rammed with significant velocity into the shrouded sampling probe. Notice that the performance remains high over the tested wind velocity range which is in contrast to the performance of a typical omnidirectional inlet shown in . The second test version which uses recycled sampler exhaust air was only tested at a 5 mph wind velocity. Notice that it also has a very high sampling efficiency especially when compared to the operation of this inlet when the recycled eductor flow is not used. This direct comparison shows that the use of educted air flow into a sampling probe significantly increases inlet efficiency. These tests support the claims for this invention that first the air eduction collar manifold coupled with a sampling probe significantly increases inlet efficiency and second this concept successfully mitigates or even eliminates inlet wind sensitivity over normal sampling wind speeds. Flow visualization dramatically demonstrated the premise that the educted air flow can easily overpower the wind vector and gently redirect fast moving air to the vertical orientation.

In net effect the motor and fan exhaust air and in so doing diverts in a uniform way a portion of the windy aerosol containing air into the air intake embodiment such that an aerosol laden quantity of air is able to be drawn into the intake tube .

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to a certain preferred embodiment or embodiments certain equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described air intake device for aerosol sampling systems the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such device are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any device which performs the specified function of the described device i.e. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary embodiments of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several embodiments such feature may be combined with one or more features of the other embodiments as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

