---

title: Navigation device and method for driving break warning
abstract: A method and device are disclosed for navigation. In at least one embodiment, the method includes determining a route of travel, in a navigation device, based upon at least a received destination location; determining whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold; and prompting, upon determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed the first threshold, a user of the navigation device to enable output of a warning to break from driving a vehicle, in which the navigation device is located, during travel along the determined route. In at least one embodiment, the navigation device includes a processor to determine a route of travel based upon at least a received destination location and to determine whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold; and an output device to prompt, upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed the first threshold, a user of the navigation device to enable output of a warning to break from driving a vehicle, in which the navigation device is located, during travel along the determined route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483943&OS=08483943&RS=08483943
owner: Tomtom International B.V.
number: 08483943
owner_city: Amsterdamn
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20071010
---
The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e on each of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 879 523 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 549 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 553 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 577 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 599 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 529 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 601 filed Jan. 10 2007 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present application. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EARLY INSTRUCTION OUTPUT 11 907 229 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING AND USING PROFILES 11 907 230 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED MAP DISPLAY 11 907 231 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD RELATING TO AN AUDIBLE RECOGNITION MODE 11 907 232 filed on even date herewith NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING POINTS OF INTEREST 11 907 233 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR FUEL PRICING DISPLAY 11 907 234 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR INFORMATIONAL SCREEN DISPLAY 11 907 235 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DEALING WITH LIMITED ACCESS ROADS 11 907 243 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRAVEL WARNINGS 11 907 244 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ISSUING WARNINGS 11 907 242 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAY OF POSITION IN TEXT READIBLE FORM 11 907 241 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EMERGENCY SERVICE ACCESS 11 907 228 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING REGIONAL TRAVEL INFORMATION IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE 11 907 240 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING SPECIAL CHARACTERS IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE 11 907 239 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A PERSONAL AREA NETWORK 11 907 238 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A LOCATION MESSAGE 11 907 237 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONSERVING POWER 11 907 236 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL 11 907 253 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL RESOURCE 11 907 252 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR QUICK OPTION ACCESS 11 907 251 filed on even date herewith and A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING A RICH CONTENT DOCUMENT 11 907 257 filed on even date herewith.

Navigation devices were traditionally utilized mainly in the areas of vehicle use such as on cars motorcycles trucks boats etc. Alternatively if such navigation devices were portable they were further transferable between vehicles and or useable outside the vehicle for foot travel for example.

These devices are typically tailored to produce a route of travel based upon an initial position of the navigation device and a selected input travel destination end position noting that the initial position could be entered into the device but is traditionally calculated via GPS Positioning from a GPS receiver within the navigation device. Such routes of travel however may be long and arduous.

The inventors discovered that on such long routes of travel problems such as fatigue may be likely. Thus the inventors of the present application developed a warning method and implementation on a navigation device to warn users of the navigation device to take a break from driving on such long trips.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes determining a route of travel in a navigation device based upon at least a received destination location determining whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold and prompting upon determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed the first threshold a user of the navigation device to enable output of a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located during travel along the determined route.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes a processor to determine a route of travel based upon at least a received destination location and to determine whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold and an output device to prompt upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed the first threshold a user of the navigation device to enable output of a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located during travel along the determined route.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a method includes enabling a navigation device to output a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located determining a route of travel in the navigation device based upon at least a received destination location determining whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold and outputting the warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located upon the warning being enabled and upon determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a device includes an integrated input and display device to enable a navigation device to output a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located and a processor to determine a route of travel in the navigation device based upon at least a received destination location and to determine whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold the warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located being output via at least the integrated input and display device upon the warning being enabled and upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR the GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in extremely precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites can relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by the same geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device touch panel and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touchscreen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectible to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a data connection between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example.

The navigation device in at least one embodiment may establish a mobile network connection with the server via a mobile device such as a mobile phone PDA and or any device with mobile phone technology establishing a digital connection such as a digital connection via known Bluetooth technology for example . Thereafter through its network service provider the mobile device can establish a network connection through the internet for example with a server . As such a mobile network connection is established between the navigation device which can be and often times is mobile as it travels alone and or in a vehicle and the server to provide a real time or at least very up to date gateway for information.

The establishing of the network connection between the mobile device via a service provider and another device such as the server using the internet for example can be done in a known manner. This can include use of TCP IP layered protocol for example. The mobile device can utilize any number of communication standards such as CDMA GSM WAN etc.

As such an internet connection may be utilized which is achieved via data connection via a mobile phone or mobile phone technology within the navigation device for example. For this connection an internet connection between the server and the navigation device is established. This can be done for example through a mobile phone or other mobile device and a GPRS General Packet Radio Service connection GPRS connection is a high speed data connection for mobile devices provided by telecom operators GPRS is a method to connect to the internet.

The navigation device can further complete a data connection with the mobile device and eventually with the internet and server via existing Bluetooth technology for example in a known manner wherein the data protocol can utilize any number of standards such as the GSRM the Data Protocol Standard for the GSM standard for example.

The navigation device may include its own mobile phone technology within the navigation device itself including an antenna for example wherein the internal antenna of the navigation device can further alternatively be used . The mobile phone technology within the navigation device can include internal components as specified above and or can include an insertable card complete with necessary mobile phone technology and or an antenna for example. As such mobile phone technology within the navigation device can similarly establish a network connection between the navigation device and the server via the internet for example in a manner similar to that of any mobile device .

For GRPS phone settings the Bluetooth enabled device may be used to correctly work with the ever changing spectrum of mobile phone models manufacturers etc. model manufacturer specific settings may be stored on the navigation device for example. The data stored for this information can be updated in a manner discussed in any of the embodiments previous and subsequent.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle such as a car or boat for example. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD Roms for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and TCP IP connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

As indicated above in of the application a navigation device of an embodiment of the present application includes a processor an input device and a display screen . In at least one embodiment the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device to enable both input of information via direct input menu selection etc. and display of information through a touch panel screen for example. Such a screen may be a touch input LCD screen for example as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further the navigation device can also include any additional input device and or any additional output device such as audio input output devices for example.

The navigation device may sit on an arm which itself may be secured to a vehicle dashboard window etc. using a large suction cup . This arm is one example of a docking station to which the navigation device can be docked.

As shown in the navigation device can be docked or otherwise connected to an arm of the docking station by snap connecting the navigation device to the arm for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for connection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application . The navigation device may then be rotatable on the arm as shown by the arrow of . To release the connection between the navigation device and the docking station a button on the navigation device may be pressed for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for disconnection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application .

The inventors discovered that on such long routes of travel problems such as fatigue may be likely. Thus the inventors of the present application developed a warning method and implementation on a navigation device to warn users of the navigation device to take a break from driving on such long trips.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes determining a route of travel in a navigation device based upon at least a received destination location determining whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold and prompting upon determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed the first threshold a user of the navigation device to enable output of a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located during travel along the determined route.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes a processor to determine a route of travel based upon at least a received destination location and to determine whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold and an output device to prompt upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed the first threshold a user of the navigation device to enable output of a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located during travel along the determined route.

As shown in step S of the route of travel is initially determined or calculated. This can be done in a known manner by processor for example wherein such a determination or calculation typically includes detection of a current location of the navigation device via a GPS receiver receiving the GPS location of the device input or selection by a user of a desired destination location such that the processor receives the destination location and use of map information stored in memory .

Thereafter in step S it is determined by processor for example whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold. For example as shown in step S the processor whether or not the calculated route will be longer in estimated time of travel than a threshold time of 150 minutes for example. Calculation of estimated time of travel can be achieved by the processor in a known manner based upon the distance of the route of travel and estimated speed limits on the roads of the route of travel for example wherein all such data may be stored in memory for example along with the map information.

Although step S illustrates that the calculated route in estimated time of travel must be longer than the threshold of 150 minutes such a determination can be made as to whether or not the calculated route meets or exceeds the 150 minute total for example. Further 150 minutes is just an example of a threshold which may be set within the system noting that an example may be used for example to warn a user after the user has been driving for a time such as two hours for example. Thus a different time period such as 120 minutes may be used for example or a time period greater than two hours noting that the warning can be issued at a different time period such as the two hour time period for example as will be explained hereafter regarding step S. Accordingly the 150 minute threshold set in step S is a set threshold but it can be set to any time period by the system by storing in memory for example and or by the user upon being prompted to set such a threshold for example .

Thereafter if the calculated route of travel is not determined to at least one of meet and exceed the threshold the method to step S and merely displays the calculated or determined route of travel in a normal fashion an example display being shown in step S of . However if it is determined that the calculated or determined route of travel does at least one of meet and exceed the threshold a prompt can be issued in step S to the user to enable output of a warning to the user to break from driving the vehicle in which the navigation device is located during travel along the determined route. One example of such a prompt is shown in step S of wherein it states that Your journey is longer than two hours. You can enable driving break warnings for long journeys in the safety preference menu . Optionally further details of the driving break warnings may be displayed and or the user may just merely be prompted with virtual keys or buttons for example to select to enable driving break warnings at that moment without the need to go to a further preference menu . Alternatively by the user selecting the Done virtual button the warnings may be enabled for example. Thereafter the method proceeds to the navigation view and awaits system navigation.

If the user selects yes in step S the method may proceed to the navigation view or may alternatively proceed to step S wherein choices for implementation of the driving break may be displayed. As the processor has already calculated the route of travel and knows the threshold of two hours for example at which the break is to be implemented it can determined points of interest along the route of travel and optionally their distances from this two hour threshold point along the route. Thus the processor in response to receipt of an indication of a yes selection in step S can direct the integrated input and display device to display driving break points of interest as shown in step S. These can be displayed as selectable options to aid in implementing the driving break in step S.

Step S of merely illustrates some examples of selectable points of interest for implementing the driving break wherein these can be displayed after selecting the enablement of the driving break option in step S or during the travel along the determined after or even in conjunction with output of the driving break warning during travel along the determined route. The selectable options may be displayed with distances from this two hour threshold point along the route if displayed after enablement of the driving break warning in step S for example or with distances form a current location of the navigation device if displayed after or in conjunction with the driving break warning during travel along the determined route. Although not shown in it should be noted that the display of step S of can be implemented after step S of in the same manner as described above regarding .

Thus as shown in the prompting may include displaying on an integrated input and display device of the navigation device at least one of a selection to enable output of the warning and a selection not to enable output of the warning wherein the enabling occurs subsequent to receipt of an indication of a selection to enable the warning. This can be true with regard to either of step S of or step S of for example.

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the method of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a navigation device including a processor to determine a route of travel based upon at least a received destination location and to determine whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold and an output device to prompt upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed the first threshold a user of the navigation device to enable output of a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located during travel along the determined route. Such a navigation device may include as part of the output device for example an integrated input and display device to enable display and subsequent selection of options warnings etc. Thus such a navigation device may be used to perform the various aspects of the method described with regard to as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

For example as shown in in step S the timer is reset and begins counting until another threshold a second threshold of 105 minutes for example compared with a first threshold 120 minutes for example is met. Upon determining that this threshold is met the processor can instruct an output device to output to a user such as shown in step S. Such an output can include display of at least one of an icon and a message on an integrated input and display device of the navigation device for example. As indicated in step S the warning may be output for a limited duration such as for 15 seconds for example.

As indicated above the warning output in step S can include at least one of an icon and a message wherein the at least one of an icon and a message may be displayed on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device for a limited duration. The icon may itself be selectable such that upon receipt of an indication of selection of the icon in step S the processor may direct a display for at least one of accessing selectable options to aid in implementing the driving break selectable suggest POI virtual button for example acknowledging that a break has recently been taken selectable break taken virtual button for example and delaying output of a driving break notification selectable snooze virtual button for example . Thereafter in step S selectable options to aid in implementing the driving break may be displayed including selectable categories as shown in the display of step S. As shown in step S the selectable options may include categories of Points of Interest along the determined route. Thereafter upon receipt of an indication of a selectable category in step S such as the petrol station category for example different driving break locations and or distances can be displayed for selection in a manner similar to that previously discussed in step S of noting that step S may be skipped with POIs of steps S of and or step S of being displayed directly .

Thereafter if the driver chooses to ignore the driving break warning for example the system moves to at least one of step S and step S wherein the processor determines during travel along the determined route and upon the warning being enabled whether at least one additional threshold is met the at least one additional threshold being less than the first threshold thus any number of N thresholds may be set during the process of for example before during and after output of the warning . Upon determining that the at least one additional threshold is met the warning is again output. For example as shown in step S a next threshold may be that of 115 minutes wherein once such a threshold is met a warning is displayed in step S again including at least one of an icon and a message . Thereafter or subsequent to step S skipping step S if the system does not include a threshold such as that shown in Step S in step S a comparison to at least one additional threshold is made by processor for example. As shown in step S once this primary threshold is reached the display in step S may include display of at least one of an icon and message and this display may include elements varied in color based upon the at least one additional threshold being met such as by displaying at least one of the icon and message in red or another distinct color for example . This further may include adding an audio output flashing at least one of the message or icon or otherwise distinguishing or differentiating at least one of the message and or icon from that previously displayed. Thus irrespective of the warning thresholds set in steps S and S the main threshold driving break time may produce such additional and possibly altered outputs.

Thereafter if the user still chooses to ignore the driving break message the process may optionally move to step S wherein at a time subsequent to the additional threshold perhaps at a time equal to the first threshold if it was 150 minutes for example warnings may be displayed in step S including display of an icon in a different color and or an indication that a driving break is overdue. This can also be accompanied by an audible signal a flashing message etc. somewhat similar to or further emphasized as compared to the display of S. Thereafter upon reaching a threshold greater than that of the first threshold such as 166 minutes for example the counter may be reset.

The second icon shown in is icon one which could be displayable in Step S for example wherein 5 minutes remain before driving break. Finally the third icon shown in can replace the icon displayable in step S of for example wherein the icon and or clock can be changed in color from blue to red for example to indicate that the driving break time has been reached.

It should be noted that are merely example embodiments noting that determining whether or not travel along the determined route at least one of meets and exceeds a threshold such as the second threshold and or additional thresholds may be based upon a comparison between the second threshold and a time parameter as shown in or may be based upon a comparison between the thresholds and a different parameter such as a distance parameter for example via the processor for example. Thus embodiments of the application should not be limited as such.

Further as shown in step S the time count may be paused at least one of when the navigation device is undocked and when the vehicle in which the navigation device is located is traveling at a speed below a threshold speed. For example in step S the timer is paused if the speed is less than a threshold or equals zero for example for a certain duration such as 60 seconds for example or if the navigation device is undocked. This means that the user is probably taking a break. Thereafter the count continues to step S where a first threshold count is met.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a method includes enabling a navigation device to output a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located determining a route of travel in the navigation device based upon at least a received destination location determining whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold and outputting the warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located upon the warning being enabled and upon determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold.

In at least one other embodiment of the present application a device includes an integrated input and display device to enable a navigation device to output a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located and a processor to determine a route of travel in the navigation device based upon at least a received destination location and to determine whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold the warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located being output via at least the integrated input and display device upon the warning being enabled and upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold.

Thus upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold the warning may be output to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located. Somewhat similarly to that previously described with regard to for example during travel along the determined route it can be determined whether or not a second threshold is met a second threshold being less than the first threshold wherein the warning is output upon determining that the second threshold is met. Other aspects of are additionally applicable to this additional embodiment as will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the method of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a navigation device including an integrated input and display device to enable a navigation device to output a warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located and a processor to determine a route of travel in the navigation device based upon at least a received destination location and to determine whether or not travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold the warning to break from driving a vehicle in which the navigation device is located being output via at least the integrated input and display device upon the warning being enabled and upon the processor determining that travel along the determined route will at least one of meet and exceed a first threshold. Such a navigation device may be used to perform the various aspects of the method described with regard to as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

The methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to floppy disks trademark cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBOL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

