---

title: Methods, electronic devices, and computer program products for generating presence information associated with a user of an electronic device based on environmental information
abstract: An electronic device includes an environmental sensor that is configured to obtain information associated with an environment surrounding the electronic device and a presence client module that is configured to generate a presence indicator associated with a user of the electronic device based on the information associated with the environment surrounding the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08456300&OS=08456300&RS=08456300
owner: Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB
number: 08456300
owner_city: Lund
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20070509
---
The present invention relates to electronic devices and more particularly to methods electronic devices and computer program products for indicating presence information in an electronic device.

In an electronic device presence information is a status indicator that conveys the ability and or willingness of a user of the electronic device to communicate with another party. In some communication systems a client running on an electronic device can provide presence information to a presence service which stores the presence information as part of a personal availability record. This presence information can be made available to other potential communication partners to convey the user s availability for communication. Presence information is often used in applications such as chat applications Instant Messaging IM applications Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP applications and the like.

According to some embodiments of the present invention an electronic device includes an environmental sensor that is configured to obtain information associated with an environment surrounding the electronic device and a presence client module that is configured to generate a presence indicator associated with a user of the electronic device based on the information associated with the environment surrounding the electronic device.

In other embodiments the environmental sensor includes a movement detector that is configured to generate data that are indicative of movement of the electronic device.

In still other embodiments the movement detector further includes a gyroscope that is configured to generate data that are indicative of rotational movement of the electronic device.

In still other embodiments the environmental sensor includes a microphone that is configured to capture audio information from the surrounding environment.

In still other embodiments the environmental sensor includes a camera and or a video recorder that is configured to capture graphic and or video information from the surrounding environment.

In still other embodiments the electronic device further includes at least one application module that is configured to publish the presence indicator such that the presence indicator is accessible by potential communication partners of the user.

In still other embodiments the at least one application module includes an Instant Messaging IM module a chat module and or a Second Life module.

In further embodiments an electronic device is operated by obtaining information associated with an environment surrounding the electronic device and generating a presence indicator associated with a riser of the electronic device based on the information associated with the environment surrounding the electronic device.

In still further embodiments obtaining information associated with the environment includes using a movement detector to generate data that are indicative of movement of the electronic device.

In still further embodiments the movement detector further includes a gyroscope which is used to generate data that are indicative of rotational movement of the electronic device.

In still further embodiments obtaining information associated with the environment includes using a microphone to capture audio information from the surrounding environment.

In still further embodiments obtaining information associated with the environment includes using a camera and or a video recorder to capture graphic and or video information from the surrounding environment.

In still further embodiments the method further includes publishing the presence indicator such that the presence indicator is accessible by potential communication partners of the user.

In still further embodiments publishing the presence indicator includes publishing the presence indicator using an Instant Messaging IM module a chat module and or a Second Life module.

In other embodiments a computer program product for operating an electronic device includes a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code includes computer readable program code configured to obtain information associated with an environment surrounding the electronic device and computer readable program code configured to generate a presence indicator associated with a user of the electronic device based on the information associated with the environment surrounding the electronic device.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims. Like reference numbers signify like elements throughout the description of the figures.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless expressly stated otherwise. It should be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. Furthermore connected or coupled as used herein may include wirelessly connected or coupled. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

The present invention may be embodied as methods electronic devices and or computer program products. Accordingly the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

As used herein the term mobile terminal may include a satellite or cellular radiotelephone with or without a multi line display a Personal Communications System PCS terminal that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing facsimile and data communications capabilities a PDA that can include a radiotelephone pager Internet intranet access Web browser organizer calendar and or a global positioning system GPS receiver and a conventional laptop and or palmtop receiver or other appliance that includes a radiotelephone transceiver. Mobile terminals may also be referred to as pervasive computing devices.

For purposes of illustration embodiments of the present invention are described herein in the context of a mobile terminal. It will be understood however that the present invention is not limited to such embodiments and may be embodied generally as an electronic device that can generate presence information based on environmental information.

In some embodiments of the present invention an electronic device such as a mobile terminal can sense environmental information which can be provided to a presence client and used to generate presence information associated with a user of the electronic device. In conventional applications a user may manually set a presence state which is then published to indicate the user s current availability. Example presence states may include free to chat busy away momentarily do not disturb and out to lunch. The presence states may in some applications be accompanied by an indication of the user s mood and or location. Embodiments of the present invention may be used to generate or select a presence indicator based on information sensed from the surrounding environment. For example a movement detector may sense that the electronic device is in motion and may generate a presence indicator to indicate that the user is traveling. A microphone camera and or video recorder may capture audio graphic and or video information that indicates that a user for example is in a meeting attending a sporting event is eating etc. which can then be used to select a presence indicator or annotate a presence indicator with the additional information. Such generated presence states according to some embodiments of the present invention may be used with applications such as but not limited to Instant Messaging IM chat and or Second Life.

Referring to an electronic device that can generate presence information based on environmental information in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention comprises one or more environmental sensors that obtain information associated with the environment surrounding the electronic device and provide that information to a presence client module . The presence client module is configured to generate a presence indicator associated with a user of the electronic device based on the environmental information obtained from the environmental sensor s . This presence indicator can then be provided to one or more applications and which publish the presence indicator for access by potential communication partners of the user.

Referring to an exemplary mobile terminal in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention comprises a movement detector a video recorder a camera a microphone a keyboard keypad a speaker a display a transceiver and a memory that communicate with a processor . The transceiver comprises a transmitter circuit and a receiver circuit which respectively transmit outgoing radio frequency signals to base station transceivers and receive incoming radio frequency signals from the base station transceivers via an antenna . The radio frequency signals transmitted between the mobile terminal and the base station transceivers may comprise both traffic and control signals e.g. paging signals messages for incoming calls which are used to establish and maintain communication with another party or destination. The radio frequency signals may also comprise packet data information such as for example cellular digital packet data CDPD information. The movement detector may comprise one or more accelerometers a gyroscope for detecting rotational movement and or a Global Positioning System OPS module. The movement detector video recorder camera and or microphone may be referred to as environmental sensors that are configured to obtain information associated with the environment surrounding the mobile terminal . The foregoing components of the mobile terminal may be included in many conventional mobile terminals and their functionality is generally known to those skilled in the art.

The processor communicates with the memory via an address data bus. The processor may be for example a commercially available or custom microprocessor. The memory is representative of the one or more memory devices containing the software and data used to set a feature of the mobile terminal based on an analysis of one or more characteristics of a user such as a user s voice or expression which may be indicative of the user s mood in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. The memory may include but is not limited to the following types of devices cache ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash SRAM and DRAM.

As shown in the memory may contain up to five or more categories of software and or data the operating system a presence client module an Instant Messaging IM module a chat module and a Second Life module . The operating system generally controls the operation of the mobile terminal . In particular the operating system may manage the mobile terminal s software and or hardware resources and may coordinate execution of programs by the processor . The presence client module may be configured to generate a presence indicator that is associated with a user of the mobile terminal .

In some embodiments the presence client module may receive environmental information from one or more of the environmental sensors on the mobile terminal such as the movement detector the video recorder the camera and or the microphone . The presence client module may include an Application Programming Interface API such as the Java JSR 256 Mobile Sensor API to obtain the environmental data from the various environmental sensor modules. The presence client module may use this environmental information to generate a particular presence indicator by selecting an indicator from a plurality of potential indicators and or annotating a selected indicator with additional environmental information. For example if the microphone captures audio that indicates that the user is in a meeting then the presence client module may select a busy presence indicator that is annotated with the additional information meeting. 

The presence client module may provide the generated presence indicator to one or more applications such as the IM application the chat application and or the Second Life application . The Second Life application is a virtual world that enables participants to interact with each other through motional avatars. Participants can explore meet each other socialize engage in individual and group activities create and trade items and services with each other. According to some embodiments of the present invention a user may use actual environmental information to generate his her presence in his her virtual life created in the Second Life application . The applications and or may publish the presence indicator obtained from the presence client so that the presence indicator can be accessed by potential communication partners of the user of the mobile terminal .

Although illustrate exemplary software and hardware architectures that may be used for generating presence information based on environmental information it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to such a configuration but is intended to encompass any configuration capable of carrying out the operations described herein. For example embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the particular environmental sensor modules and or applications that may use the generated presence indicators discussed above with reference to . Moreover the functionality of the hardware software architecture of may be implemented as a single processor system a multi processor system or even a network of stand alone computer systems in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of devices and or systems discussed above with respect to may be written in a high level programming language such as Java C and or C for development convenience. In addition computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in other programming languages such as but not limited to interpreted languages. Some modules or routines may be written in assembly language or even micro code to enhance performance and or memory usage. It will be further appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be implemented using discrete hardware components one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or a programmed digital signal processor or microcontroller.

The present invention is described hereinafter with reference to flowchart and or block diagram illustrations of methods mobile terminals electronic devices data processing systems and or computer program products in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.

These flowchart and or block diagrams further illustrate exemplary operations of generating presence information based on environmental information in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations may be implemented by computer program instructions and or hardware operations. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer a special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the function specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to operations for generating presence information based on environmental information begin at block where a presence client obtains information associated with the surrounding environment from for example one or more environmental sensors such as a movement detector microphone camera and or video recorder. The presence client module generates a presence indicator that is associated with the user at block based on the obtained environmental information. The generated presence indicator may be a conventional presence indicator that is supplemented based on the obtained environmental information the presence indicator may be a newly defined indicator that is associated with the particular environmental information obtained and or the presence indicator may be selected from a group of presence indicators based on the obtained environmental information. At block the generated presence indicator may be provided to one or more applications such as an IM application chat application and or Second Life application which may publish the presence indicator for access by potential communication partners of a user of an electronic device.

Advantageously some embodiments of the present invention may allow devices such as mobile terminals to detect a user s environment and use that information to automatically generate a presence indicator that conveys the user s availability to communicate with others. Traditionally a user would need to select a particular presence indicator manually to update others regarding the user s availability to communicate.

The flowchart of illustrates the architecture functionality and operations of embodiments of methods electronic devices and or computer program products for generating a presence indicator based on environmental information obtained from one or more environmental sensors. In this regard each block represents a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in other implementations the function s noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in . For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending on the functionality involved.

Many variations and modifications can be made to the preferred embodiments without substantially departing from the principles of the present invention. All such variations and modifications are intended to be included herein within the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

