---

title: System and method for automated multimedia content indexing and retrieval
abstract: The invention provides a system and method for automatically indexing and retrieving multimedia content. The method may include separating a multimedia data stream into audio, visual and text components, segmenting the audio, visual and text components based on semantic differences, identifying at least one target speaker using the audio and visual components, identifying a topic of the multimedia event using the segmented text and topic category models, generating a summary of the multimedia event based on the audio, visual and text components, the identified topic and the identified target speaker, and generating a multimedia description of the multimedia event based on the identified target speaker, the identified topic, and the generated summary.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08131552&OS=08131552&RS=08131552
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property II, L.P.
number: 08131552
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070117
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 686 459 filed Oct. 15 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 184 959 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 09 716 278 filed Nov. 21 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 714 909 issued on May 30 2004 which claims priority from U.S. Pat. No. 6 317 710 issued on Nov. 13 2001 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 096 372 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 801 895 issued on Oct. 5 2004 which claim priority from Provisional Patent Application No. 60 111 273. The above referenced patent applications are each incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to automatically performing content based indexing of structured multimedia data.

The amount of information generated in society is growing exponentially. Moreover the data is made available in more than one dimension across different media such as video audio and text. This mass of multimedia information poses serious technological challenges in terms of how multimedia data can be integrated processed organized and indexed in a semantically meaningful manner to facilitate effective retrieval.

When the amount of data is small a user can retrieve desired content in a linear fashion by simply browsing the data sequentially. With the large amounts of data now available and expected to grow in the future such linear searching is not longer feasible. One example used daily is a table of contents for a book. The larger the amount of information the more the abstraction needed to create the table of contents. For instance while dividing an article into a few sections may suffice a book may need subsection or even sub subsections for lower level details and chapters for higher level abstraction. Furthermore when the number of books published grows rapidly in order to assist people to choose appropriate books to buy books are grouped into different categories such as physics mathematics and computer hardware or into even higher levels of abstraction such as categories of literature science travel or cooking.

Usually a content structure is designed by the producer before the data is being generated and recorded. To enable future content based retrieval such intended semantic structure metadata should be conveyed simultaneously to the users as the content data is delivered. In this way users can choose what they desire based on the description in such metadata. For example every book or magazine is published together with its table of contents through which users can find the page number index where the desired information is printed by simply jumping to the page.

There are different methods to generate the above described abstraction or metadata. The most intuitive one is to do it manually as in the case of books table of contents or broadcast news closed caption delivered from major American national broadcast news companies. Since manual generation of index is very labor intensive and thus expensive most types of digital data in practice is still delivered without metadata attached.

The invention provides a system and method for automation of index and retrieval processes for multimedia data. The system and method provide the ability to segment multimedia data such as news broadcasts into retrievable units that are directly related to what users perceive as meaningful.

The method may include separating a multimedia data stream into audio visual and text components segmenting the audio visual and text components based on semantic differences identifying at least one target speaker using the audio and visual components identifying a topic of the multimedia event using the segmented text and topic category models generating a summary of the multimedia event based on the audio visual and text components the identified topic and the identified target speaker and generating a multimedia description of the multimedia event based on the identified target speaker the identified topic and the generated summary.

In this regard the method may include automatically identifying a hierarchy of different types of content. Examples of such content include different speakers e.g. anchor news reporting correspondences or interviews general news stories topical news stories news summaries or commercials. From such extracted semantics an indexed table can be constructed so that it provides a compact yet meaningful abstraction of the data. Compared with conventional linear information browsing or keywords based search with a flat layer the indexed table facilitates non linear browsing capability that is especially desired when the amount of information is huge.

This invention provides users with the ability to retrieve information from multimedia events such as broadcast news programs in a semantically meaningful way at different levels of abstraction. A typical national news program consists of news and commercials. News consists of several headline stories each of which is usually introduced and summarized by the anchor prior to and following the detailed report by correspondents and quotes and interviews from news makers. Commercials are usually found between different news stories. With this observation the invention provides an integrated solution to recover this content hierarchy by utilizing cues from different media whenever it is appropriate.

For exemplary purposes the invention is discussed below in the context of news broadcasts. However the invention as described herein may be applied to other multimedia events such as news shows documentaries movies television shows lectures etc within in the spirit and scope of the invention.

In input consists of news segments with boundaries determined by the location of anchorperson segments. Commercial segments are not included. Using duration information each news segment is initially classified as either the story body having longer duration or news introduction non story segments having shorter duration . Further text analysis verifies and refines the story boundaries the introduction associated with each news story and the news summary of the day.

The news data is segmented into multiple layers in a hierarchy to meet different needs. For instance some users may want to retrieve a story directly some others may want to listen to the news summary of the day in order to decide which story sounds interesting before making further choices while others e.g. a user employed in the advertising sector may have a totally different need such as monitoring commercials from competitors in order to come up with a competing commercial. This segmentation mechanism partitions the broadcast data in different ways so that direct indices to the events of different interests can be automatically established. Examples include news stories augmented stories news summaries and news summaries of the day . The result is a database for broadcast news content .

While the various models used in the automated multimedia content indexing and retrieval process may be stored in the common system database the models as well as the other data used in the system may be stored in separate databases or memories. For ease of discussions illustrates the use of separate databases for the models such as the topic category model database the audio visual speaker model database and the audio event model database .

In the automated multimedia content indexing and retrieval process will now be described with reference to the system discussed above and below. The process begins at step and moves to step where an analog to digital converter converts the analog multimedia data stream into a digital bit stream. The digital bit stream is compressed by the digital compression unit using any known compression technique e.g. MPEG MP3 etc. . The compressed digital bit stream may also be stored in database . Then in step the compressed multimedia data bit stream is separated into audio visual and textual components by the multimedia data stream separation unit .

In step the feature extraction unit and the segmentation unit identify features and parse the broadcast into segments. For example separate news and commercials are identified and segmented based on acoustic characteristics of audio data. show the typical waveforms for news reporting and commercials . There is obviously a visual difference between the two waveforms. Such a difference is largely caused by the background music in the commercials. Thus a set of audio features is adopted to capture this observed difference.

For example the audio data used may be sampled at 16 KHz per second and 16 bits per sample. A feature extraction unit extracts audio features at both frame and clip levels where clip level features are computed based on the ones from frame level. Each frame consists of 512 samples and adjacent frames overlap by 256 samples. A clip is defined as a group of adjacent frames within the time span of 1 to 3 seconds after proper removal of silence gaps. The duration of each clip is so determined that it is short enough for acceptable delay and long enough for extracting reliable statistics.

Eight frame level features are extracted by the feature extraction unit from audio signals. They are volume zero crossing rate pitch period frequency centroid frequency bandwidth energy ratios in the three subbands. They are defined in detail as follows 

The volume of a frame is approximated as the root mean square RMS of the signal magnitude within the frame. Specifically the volume of frame n is calculated as 

Zero Crossing Rate ZCR is defined as the frequency at which the audio waveform crosses the zero axis. It is computed by 

Pitch is the fundamental period of an audio waveform. It is an important parameter in the analysis and synthesis of speech signals. Among many available pitch estimation algorithms the one that uses the shortest time Average Magnitude Difference Function AMDF is adopted to determine the pitch of each frame. The AMDF is defined as 

The estimate of the pitch is defined as the first valley point in the AMDF identified by searching from left to right within a range of the AMDF function. The valley point is a local minimum that satisfies additional constraints in terms of its value relative to the global minimum as well as its curvature. The search range used in this work is between 2.3 ms and 15.9 ms set up based on the known pitch range of normal human speech.

Let S represent the short time Fourier transform of frame n. The frequency centroid denoted by C n is defined as 

Based on frequency centroid defined above the frequency bandwidth of frame n denoted as B n can be computed accordingly 

The energy ratio in a subband is defined as the ratio of the signal energy in that subband to the total energy. The three subbands used in this feature are 0 630 630 1720 1720 4400 . Each subband corresponds to six critical bands that represent cochlea filters in the human auditory model.

A clip level feature is a statistic of the corresponding frame level feature within a clip. Generally a clip level feature can be classified as either time domain or frequency domain. Six clip level features in time domain are extracted.

Non silence ratio NSR is defined as the ratio of the number of silent frames to the total length of the entire clip. A silent frame is detected as a frame whose volume and zero crossing rate are both below some preset thresholds.

The volume standard deviation VSTD is computed within each clip as the standard deviation of the volume measurements of all the frames within that clip.

Volume dynamic range VDR is defined as the difference between the maximum and minimum volumes within a clip normalized by the maximum volume. That is 

Volume undulation VU of a clip is defined as the summation of all the difference between neighboring peaks local maximum and valleys local minimum of the volume contour of the clip. ext k k 1 . . . K is the local extremes of the volume contour in time order where K is the number of the extremes within the clip. Feature VU can be computed as

Feature 4 Hz modulation energy 4ME is defined as the frequency component around 4 Hz of a volume contour. It may be computed as 

Standard deviation of pitch period PSTD is calculated based on the pitch period measurements of all the frame within a clip 

Smooth pitch ratio SPR is defined as the ratio of the number of frames that have similar pitch period as the previous frames the difference of their pitch periods is smaller than a preset threshold to the total number of frames in the entire clip.

Non pitch ratio NPR is defined as the ratio of the number of frames that no pitch is detected in the search range to the total number of frames in the entire clip.

Energy ratios of subband 1 3 ERSB1 3 are energy weighted mean of energy ratios in subband 1 3 of each frame. BW and ERSB1 3 are computed similar to FC.

These features are chosen and extracted by the feature extraction unit so that the underlying audio events news vs. commercials can be reasonably segmented by the segmentation unit in the feature space. For example show the separability of features VSTD and VU. These features are designed so that different audio events characterized using these features are reasonably separated into the feature space.

Four different classification methods were tested in segmenting or separating news from commercials hard threshold classifier linear fuzzy classifier GMM Gaussian Mixture Model based classifier and SVM Support Vector Machine . Each classification scheme is briefly described below.

Nine out of 14 audio clip features are used for threshold based classifiers NSR VSTD ZSTD VDR VU 4ME SPR NPR and ERSB. The thresholds are automatically chosen by fitting a bimodal Gaussian to the feature distributions computed from training data. The features that fail the fitting are dropped. A test sample is classified as either news reporting or commercials depending on which side of the threshold it resides in the feature space.

Although hard threshold classification method is simple it is not desirable. Failure in a single feature condition will affect the classification decision in a drastic manner. As an improvement a fuzzy mechanism is designed in which each feature is associated with a fuzzy membership function and the impact that each feature attributes to the overall decision is realized in the form of a weighted sum where each weight is derived from the fuzzy membership function of that feature. An overall threshold value is then applied to the weighted sum to reach the final decision of the classification.

The threshold based method is in general inflexible. Another approach is to build models for the underlying classes using labeled training data. Based on such trained models a test sample can be classified using a maximum likelihood method.

Gaussian Mixture Model GMM is employed to model news and commercial classes individually. A GMM model consists of a set of weighted Gaussian 

where K is the number of mixtures M and are the mean vector and covariance matrix of the imixture respectively and is the weight associated with the iGaussian. Based on training data the parameter set M E is optimized such that f x best fits the given data. The initial parameters are estimated from a clustering algorithm then an expectation maximization EM method is used to iteratively refine the parameters until some preset conditions are met.

It is known theoretically that ML based estimation method for Gaussian mixture model has no optimal solution. In practice an acceptable model can be derived by limiting the covariance of each feature within a specified range. The decision about the number of mixtures used in the model is empirical relating to both the data characteristic and the amount of training data available. Models are benchmarked with different parameter settings to obtain the best parameter combination with respect to classification performance.

Support vector machines map an input space into a high dimensional feature space denoted by Z a Hilbert Space through some non linear mapping chosen a priori and then identify the optimal separating hyperplane in the feature space Z making it possible to construct linear decision surfaces in the feature space Z that correspond to the nonlinear decision surfaces in the input space.

To construct the optimal separating hyperplane in feature space Z there is no need to consider the feature space in explicit form. Without knowing the mapping function the inner product of twin vectors z and zcan be expressed in feature space Z as z z K x x where zand zare the images in the feature space of vector xand xin the input space. The kernel function K x y can be any symmetric function that satisfies the Mercer condition. In this manner dot product and polynomial function are experimented as kernel functions. They are defined as 1 1 

A pattern recognition problem in SVM can be formulated as follows for a set of samples z y z Z y 1 1 i 1 . . . N the optimal hyperplane f z w z b that satisfies sign f z yneeds to be found. The embedded idea introduced by SVM is to minimize an upper bound on the generalization error. Considering the freedom to scale w and b simultaneously there is another requirement for a canonical pair 

Experimental results on news commercial segmentation using different classifiers are discussed below.

In step detection of anchorperson segments is carried out by the anchor detection unit using text independent speaker verification techniques. The segmentation at this level distinguishes the anchorperson segments against a background of speech segments spoken by other persons as well as other audio segments chiefly commercials . The target speaker background speakers and other background audio categories are represented by 64 mixture components Gaussian Mixture Models GMM s with diagonal covariance matrices. The broadcast speech and audio signal is analyzed to extract cepstral coefficients and the pitch every 10 msec augmented by 13 delta cepstral as well as delta pitch features. The GMM s are constructed using labeled training data in the form of sets of the 28 component feature vectors. A target speaker detection method based on likelihood ratio values for test broadcast data is evaluated from the models using appropriate normalization and smoothing mechanisms.

Different training strategies were tested and compared. Benchmarking experiments against different thresholds were also conducted in order to choose the most effective system setting. Performance is measured at two different levels the segment hit rate and the segmentation precision. Some of the experimental results are presented below using these performance measures.

In step the anchor level segmentation performed by the anchor detection unit is fed into the headline story segmentation unit to generate a set of hypothesized story boundaries. Typically each half hour news program yields 13 15 segments of anchor speech of which 5 6 correspond to the beginning of a new story. Since not every anchor speech segment starts a new story further analysis is needed to detect true story boundaries. The results from anchor identification correspondingly partitions the synchronized text data provided by the text event segmentation unit into blocks of text.

Up to this point there are a set of hypothesized story boundaries as shown in . The segments with label A indicates that they are anchor segments D detailed news reporting and C commercials. With identified A segments the synchronized text can be partitioned into two sets of text blocks 

where Tis a block of text that starts with anchor speech and Tis a subblock of Tcontaining only the text from the anchor speech. Based on the structure of the broadcast news each news story consists of one or more Ts.

The goal is to extract three classes of semantics news stories augmented stories augmented by the introduction of the story by the anchor and news summary of the day. At this stage text cues are further integrated with the cues from audio and video in performing the analysis to 1 separate news stories and news introductions 2 verify story boundaries 3 for each detected story identifies the news introduction segment associated with that story and 4 form news summary of the day by finding a minimum set of news introduction segments that cover all the detected stories.

With blocks of text available at this point the task is to determine how these blocks of text can be merged to form semantically coherent content based on appropriate criteria. Since news introductions are to provide a brief and succinct message about the story they naturally have a much shorter duration than the detailed news reports. Based on this observation in step a headline story segmentation unit initially classifies each block of text as a story candidate or an introduction candidate based on duration. Such initial labels are shown in where I represents the introduction and S represents the story. The remaining tasks are to verify the initial segmentation of news introductions and stories and to form three classes of semantics indicated in the bottom of individual news stories augmented news stories and a news summary.

A news story represents merely the story body itself. An augmented story consists of the introduction that previews the story and the story body. The news summary generator generates the news summary of the day from introductions for each and every news story reported on that day. For example in the second augmented story is formed by the third introduction section and the second story body. The news summary of the day does not necessarily include all the introduction sections. What is being sought is a minimum set of anchor speech that previews all the headline stories. For example in the second introduction section is not included in news summary of the day.

Formally the input data for text analysis is two sets of blocks of text T T . . . T . . . T where each T 1 k m begins with the anchor person s speech corresponding to the blocks shown in and T T . . . T . . . T where each T 1 k n contains only the anchor s speech. The blocks in both sets are all time stamped m n and TT. To verify story boundaries similarity measure sim is evaluated between every pair T T of adjacent blocks 

Here w enumerates all the token words in each text block fis the weighted frequency of word w in block b i 1 2 and 0 sim 1. In this process the token words are extracted by excluding all the stop words from the text. The frequency of each token word is then weighted by the standard frequency of the same word computed from a corpus of broadcast news data collected from NBC Nightly News in 1997. The higher the frequencies of the common words in the two involved blocks are the more similar the content of the blocks. A threshold is experimentally set up to determine the story boundaries.

The output of the headline story segmentation unit contains the story boundary verification as a set of text blocks 

where S T T 1 i j n. With news stories segmented set Tand the story set S are processed to further extract other classes. For each story its introduction is identified by finding a Tthat has the highest similarity to that story Tis not necessarily connected to the story . Merging each story with its introduction segment an augmented story is formed. That is using S and T augmented news stories set 

In step the news summary of the day is extracted by the news summary generator with the criterion that it has to provide the minimum coverage for all the stories reported on that day. Therefore it is a minimum set of T s that together introduces all the stories of the day without overlap i.e. each story has to be introduced but only once . Based on this requirement a set of text blocks from Tis chosen to form news summary of the day by using the following criterion 

such that sim S T is maximized. With such a higher level of abstraction users can browse desired information in a very compact form without losing primary content.

In contrast to conventional discourse segmentation methods the story segmentation and the intention is performed based on integrated audio visual text cues. Since anchor based segmentation performed by the anchor detection unit provides the initial segmentation of text in effect 1 adaptive granularity that is directly related to the content is achieved 2 the hypothesized boundaries are more natural than those obtained using a fixed window commonly adopted in a conventional discourse segmentation method 3 blocks formed in this way not only contain enough information for similarity comparison but also have natural breaks of chains of repeated words if true boundaries are present 4 the original task of discourse segmentation is achieved by boundary verification and 5 once a boundary is verified its location is far more precise than what conventional discourse segmentation algorithms can achieve. This integrated multimodal analysis provides an excellent starting point for the similarity analysis and boundary detection.

Differing from most studies in the literature where the processing is applied only to adjacent blocks of text some of the semantics attempted to be extracted require merging of disconnected blocks of text. One example is the news summary of the day because the anchor s introductions to different headline stories are scattered throughout the half hour program .

In the discussion above a mechanism to recover the semantic structure of the data has been addressed so that it can be used by the content description generator in step for creating appropriate descriptions of the extracted multimedia content. For effective retrieval generating a proper presentation for the multimedia content is another equally important task related to human machine interface how to present the extracted semantic units in a form that is compact concise easy to understand and at the same time visually pleasing. Now three aspects of this task are examined. First how to present the semantic structure to the users second how to represent the particular semantics based on the content of the news story and third how to form the representation for news summary of the day.

A commonly used presentation for semantic structure is in the form of a table of contents. Since this concept is familiar to most users it is employed in this representation as well. In addition in order to give users a sense of time a streamline representation for the semantic structure is also designed.

These two representations are directly related to each other although one table is more conceptual and the other more visual. When users click on a particular segment in the streamline representation it triggers the same effect as clicking on a particular item in the table of content. When an item in the table is chosen to be played back the corresponding segment in the streamline becomes active flash which also gives users a sense of time. For example if a user chooses to play the second story by clicking on the second item under story category in the table of contents the corresponding segment in the streamline representation will blink during the play back. Therefore while the table of contents provides a conceptual abstraction of the content without the structure along time the streamline representation gives a description of how content is distributed in a news program. With these two complementary representations users can quickly get a sense of both the semantic structure of the data and the timing. Through this representation users can easily perform non linear retrieval.

The segmented content and multimedia descriptions including the table of contents are stored in multimedia database in step . The stored multimedia data may be retrieved and provided to a user s terminal through search engine upon a user s request. The process goes to step and ends.

For each extracted news story two forms of representation may be developed. One is textual and another is combination of text with visual. The goal is to automatically construct the representation in a form that is most relevant to the content of the underlying story. For textual representation keywords are chosen in step above from the story according to their importance computed as weighted frequency.

In the table of contents generated by the content description generator shown in next to each story listed a set of 10 keywords are given. The intention is that users will get a feeling about the content of the story. Another more detailed representation for a story is called story icon . To invoke it for a particular story users can click on the Storylcon in the interface illustrated in . give two examples of such story representation. A content based method to automatically construct this visual story representation has been designed.

Within the boundary of each story a keyword histogram is first constructed as shown in where the X axis is the keyframe numbers and the Y axis is the frequency of the keywords. In the figure the solid curve is the keyword histogram. A fixed number of key frames within the boundary are chosen so that they 1 are not within anchor speech segments and 2 yield maximum covered area with respect to the keywords histogram. The peak points marked on the histogram in indicate the positions of the chosen frames and the shaded area underneath them defines the total area coverage on the histogram by the chosen key frames.

The exemplary representation of two stories are shown in . The chosen stories are the third and fifth news program respectively which can be seen in the table of contents on the left portion of the interface . The representation for each story has three parts the upper left corner is a set of 10 keywords automatically chosen from the segmented story text based on the relative importance of the words the right part displays the full text of the story the rest is the visual presentation of the story consisting of five images chosen from video in the content based manner described above.

Finally the representation for the news summary of the day is constructed by the news summary generator . It is composed of k images where k is the number of headline stories on a particular day. The k images are chosen so that they are the most important in each story measured by the covered area size in the keyword histogram.

While the invention has been described with reference to the embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not restricted to the particular forms shown in the foregoing embodiments. Various modifications and alternations can be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention.

