---

title: Summarization of attached, linked or related materials
abstract: A summarization system and method. The summarization method includes utilizing a first body of information to obtain a second body of information, which is identified (by a hyperlink, an attachment identifier, a reference, etc.) in the first body of information. A summary of the obtained second body of information is then computed. The computed summary can be displayed to a user and/or stored for later use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209617&OS=08209617&RS=08209617
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08209617
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070511
---
Reference is made to co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 801 806 filed May 11 2007 entitled SUMMARIZATION TOOL AND METHOD FOR A DIALOGUE SEQUENCE the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

When a reader encounters a reference to another source whether an attached document while reading electronic mail an attached piece of voicemail a hyperlink or any other type of referenced material the reader has a choice either continue reading without examining the referenced material or follow the link to the referenced material and then go back to the referring original document. Opening and reading the referenced material can distract the reader away from the focus of the original document in particular when only a portion of the referenced material is relevant to the original document opening and reading the referenced material can further be onerous in low bandwidth situations.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A summarization system and method that addresses at least some of the above noted problems is provided. The summarization method includes utilizing a first body of information to obtain a second body of information which is identified by a hyperlink an attachment identifier a reference etc. in the first body of information. A summary of the obtained second body of information is then computed. The computed summary can be displayed to a user and or stored for later use.

In some embodiments a focus of at least a portion of the first body of information is first computed. The computed focus is then utilized to help compute a focused summary of the second body of information.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

The present embodiments provide a summarization system and method that offers a user electronic mail user for example a summarization of referenced materials for example a summarization of attachments to an electronic mail message so that the user can obtain a summary of the referenced material without being distracted by the full extent of the referenced material and with fewer bandwidth requirements.

To perform its summarization operations system includes as its primary components a procuring component and a summarization component . Procuring component utilizes the first body of information to obtain the second body of information by for example first locating identifier and then utilizing the located identifier to suitably obtain the second body of information . Procuring component provides the obtained second body of information to summarization component . Summarization component upon receiving the second body of information from procuring component computes a summary of the second body of information and outputs the computed summary. Summarization component can utilize any suitable summarization technique that is currently known or will be developed in future. The computed summary can be displayed to a user via user interface and or stored in storage component for later use. Component can be any suitable memory volatile non volatile etc. and component can be any suitable type of user interface. Procuring component and summarization component can include suitable program code that is configured to carry out the procuring and summarization operations. In the present embodiments the procuring and summarization operations are typically carried out substantially automatically substantially in real time and substantially without user intervention.

System can also include a focus determination component that is capable of computing a focus scope and or context etc. of at least a portion of the first body of information. The computed focus is provided to summarization component which can utilize the focus to compute a focused summary of the second body of information . The focused summary can be stored in component and or provided to a user via user interface . Providing a focused summary allows the user to access information from the second body of information that is most relevant to the current context of the first body of information . Examples in which a focused summary is particularly useful are provided further below.

As can be seen in user interface can include multiple sections such as first section and second section . First section can for example display identification information such as a title creation date etc. for the first body of information and or at least a portion of the first body of information . Second section can display a summary or focused summary of the second body of information .

In some embodiments a focus of at least a portion of the first body of information is first computed step . The computed focus is then utilized to help compute a focused summary of the second body of information.

In one embodiment the first body of information is a message for example an electronic mail message and the second body of information is an attachment to the message. illustrates a specific method embodiment in which the first body of information is a message thread for example an electronic mail thread that includes a plurality of messages through and the second body of information is an attachment attachment for example to one of the plurality of messages newest message for example in the message thread. Of course multiple attachments to single or multiple messages can also be included. In additional attachments are denoted by reference numerals and . In some embodiments summaries of attachments and can be computed substantially independently of the plurality of messages through in the message thread. In other embodiments a focus based on at least some of the plurality of messages through is first computed. Computation of the focus denoted by reference numeral can be carried out by using a computed scope and or topic of at least some of the plurality of messages through . A computed thread summary summary of at least some of the messages in the message thread can also be used in addition to or instead of the computed scope and or context to compute the focus. A focused summary of the attachment s is then computed denoted by reference numeral as a function of the computed focus.

In some embodiments computing a focus can involve determining from the message thread an oldest message that is related to the message to which the second body of information attachment for example is attached. In the oldest related message can be message topic start message . Here the oldest related message the message to which the second body of information attachment for example is attached newest message and all intervening messages messages and for example in the thread of messages can be used to compute the focus. In general any suitable information can be used to compute the focus which as noted above is used to determine a focused summary of the attachment s . Computed summaries of attachments references can be output through user interface .

In some embodiments the first body of information is a web page with an embedded hyperlink to the second body of information. Also instead of being in a same form for example both the first body of information and the second body of information being text messages each body of information can be in a different form. For example the first body of information can be a text message and the second body of information can be a voice message.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. Still other input devices not shown can include non human sensors for temperature pressure humidity vibration rotation etc. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a USB. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

