---

title: Method and system using RFID tags for system re-configuration
abstract: A system and related methods for dynamically re-configuring a radio frequency identification tag reader, engaging software business processes, or combinations of both, using a radio-frequency-readable configuration tag which physically associated with one or more RFID-tagged articles in a physical handling flow. The configuration tag reader is positioned prior to a radio frequency identification tag reader in said material handling flow, which allows the configuration reader to read the contents of the configuration tags before the articles reach the identification tag reader. Based on the contents of the configuration tags, the identification tag reader can be re-configured dynamically, such as re-positioning a reader antenna or adjusting reader power levels, and specific business processes can be executed, such as triggering special reporting, surveillance, or handling procedures, specific business processes may be initiated, document generators may be engaged, or a combination of these actions may be performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207828&OS=08207828&RS=08207828
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08207828
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070427
---
The present invention relates generally to Radio Frequency Identification technologies and more specifically to methods for using RFID tags to re configure systems and operational parameters of materials handling systems computer servers and the like.

Whereas the determination of a publication technology or product as prior art relative to the present invention requires analysis of certain dates and events not disclosed herein no statements made within this Background of the Invention shall constitute an admission by the Applicants of prior art unless the term Prior Art is specifically stated. Otherwise all statements provided within this Background section are other information related to or useful for understanding the invention.

Many environments in which a number of items are handled have been enhanced by the addition of Radio Frequency Identification RFID technologies. Small tags are affixed to items or within their packaging which allow wireless and often touch free reading of the tags information. Individual products are often provided with an RFID tag containing data identifying the product the manufacturer and even a serial number for the particular item. When a tagged item is scanned it passes near an RFID reader which emits a radio frequency signal to power the embedded integrated circuit in the RFID tag and causes the RFID tag to wirelessly transmit this data. The RFID reader then receives the data and routes it to a computer system such as an electronic cash register or inventory control system.

RFID tags have become useful in large scale material handling such as in manufacturing assembly packaging shipping and receiving operations such as those shown in . In this illustration a single tagged item travels on a conveyor belt or track passing by an RFID reader . The tagged items may also be contained in small groups such as a crate case or in an even larger container of items such as a palletized gross .

In such a bulk handling situation the speed of the conveyor is usually set to the fastest possible speed at which the RFID tags of individual items as well as all of the tags on items within the bulk packaging can be accurately read by the RFID reader . The RFID information is collected and processed by various common systems such as inventory control systems billing systems etc.

In some scenarios human operators assemblers service personnel or the like are stationed along side the conveyor. These persons may have duties such as visually inspecting the items as they pass performing an assembly action performing a packing operation or even performing a repair operation.

For handling of higher value items and especially when human operators are part of the environment video surveillance may be provided in order to assure careful handling of delicate items to reduce theft or pilfering and to allow for centralized management of a work area such as a production floor or shipping and receiving bay.

The present invention includes system embodiments as well as methods for improving and automating certain changes of hardware configurations for RFID based material handling systems and for triggering business processes according to configuration tag information.

For simplicity purposes the following description will be made according to an embodiment of the invention in which a first RFID tag is affixed to a container carton or crate holding a number of items each of which is also provided with an RFID tag. The first RFID tag the one attached to the bulk container will be referred to as an RF Configuration Tag or RFCT. The RFCT may be of the same type or a different type of RFID device from the RFID tags on the individual items. In other embodiments of the invention both the RFCT and RFID tags can be affixed to an individual item and optionally the RFCT and RFID may be the same tag device storing two sets of information e.g. configuration information and identification information .

The identification tag provides a unique identifier for each item while the configuration tag can point to specific hardware configuration s to implement to one or more processes to initiate to an information sharing configuration to be engaged to one or more documents to be generated or a combination of these triggered actions. For example a specific hardware configuration often referred to as a hardware profile can be exchanged for another one based on a RFCT read. This can be accomplished by reading the configuration tag requesting a set of hardware configurations recorded in a predefined profile and activating a hardware profile. Alternatively or in conjunction with a hardware profile implementation reading of a specific RFCT can trigger execution of one or more automated business processes or document generators.

The inventor of the present and related inventions has recognized problems unaddressed in the art regarding configuration of RFID based systems especially as applied to material handling.

The present invention aims to solve a business problem which is not yet widely recognized. It persists in all those situations where radio frequency identification RFID technologies are applied in a way that requires flexibility of the system configuration in regard to hardware software and information reporting.

Today without the invention RFID based material handling systems are static in their configuration and they are trained to perform a certain function within the narrow context of a single business process.

For example RFID equipment may be installed and configured to only scan pallets or boxes on a conveyor belt. It is not easy in many instances simply impossible to freely adjust the configuration of an RFID system once it is set. For example to allow for increased speed of the conveyor system the conveyor motor controls must be manually adjusted and the position or distance from the RFID reader to the conveyor belt may need to be manually decreased e.g. decreasing distance between the tagged items and the reader generally increase the accuracy and speed at which the tags can be read . Or if larger containers holding a greater quantity of tagged items are to be handled on an existing system the conveyor speed may have to be manually decreased and the RFID antenna may have to be manually repositioned.

Further in most handling systems video surveillance is continuous if present e.g. capturing images during important times as well as irrelevant times which may lead to capturing more video data than required thereby increasing cost of the system. Or due to this cost video surveillance may be omitted from the system configuration altogether.

Such inflexible RFID systems subsequently cannot adjust when items other than what they were trained for pass through. Likewise RFID enabled business processes will not change based on the context of a given transaction.

The present invention enables a RFID system that can be flexibly and automatically reconfigured in a multiplicity of ways to always execute a best possible configuration or business process based on external information attached to the objects in a transaction.

According to the invention Radio Frequency Configuration Tags RFCT are utilized to communicate from a handled item to a controlling system which has certain controls that can be varied and set per configuration profiles. The item passes by an RFID controller as shown in the information in the RFCT is read certain logical processes are performed to determine any configuration changes to be implemented any business processes to be initiated or terminated or both. Then certain configuration changes are automatically implemented such as speeding up or slowing down the conveyor speed repositioning an RFID reader using servo motors or enabling disabling data capture from a variety of sensors such as video cameras based on sensor inputs such as motion sensors as will be described in more detail in the following paragraphs. The RFCT are preferably affixed to the multiple item containers and are preferably a separate RFID like tag from the RFID tag used to identify actual items. However in alternate embodiments the RFCT may be integrated into the RFID tags and may be affixed directly to individual items.

One advantage of the invention is that the system can flexibly reconfigure itself based on the objects and containers of objects that pass through it without the necessity for a user input manual adjustments or maintenance processes. In other words the RFCT system gains the ability to react to the objects and containers of objects that it sees by triggering a specific hardware configuration software code business processes and document generators related to and relevant for the object or subject that is tagged.

One distinctive point of novelty of the invention lies in the fact that the object that is passing through a RFID RFCT system can determine the hardware and software configuration of said system. This capability does not exist today whereas the RFID tags are only used to identify the objects passing through the system the material handling system being statically configured. The present invention can be applied in novel ways to three key areas of RFID systems 1 hardware 2 software and 3 information reporting.

When the invention is applied to the hardware configuration of an RFID system for example novel capabilities that result include the ability to change physical parameters of the system.

RFID Antenna Position Power and Polarization. RFCT information can be used to determine a new RFID reader antenna position and to control servo motors to achieve the new position in order to accurately read RFID tags on smaller items larger items or items with weaker or stronger RFID response signals. Moving the antenna may also increase or decrease the coverage area of the RFID reader to compensate for larger or smaller containers of items to be read.

RFID systems today are rightfully constrained by concerns about the human beings in the process and near the operating equipment. As a result wattages are kept at a minimum to ensure work safety and worker health. The present invention can use inputs from sensors to measure if a human being is close by and if no one is can increase the wattage of the RFID reader antennae to enhance read rates and better guarantee read success. As soon as a human being enters the field the wattage is decreased to standard e.g. safer levels again. Sensors such as weight sensitive floor mats electric eyes and passive infrared PIR motion sensors can be utilized to detect the presence of a human operator or user.

Appropriate polarization of the RFID antenna can also improve the accuracy of the reading actions and as such certain packaging and arrangements of RFID tagged items may benefit from having the polarization of the RFID antenna adjusted. Using the RFCT information the invention can determine that a certain bulk container of RFID tagged items requires or would benefit from a changed polarization of the RFID reader antenna and can command the RFID reader subsystem to rotate or otherwise change the polarization appropriately. Some antennae polarization can be repositioned mechanically such as by servo motors while others maybe adjusted electronically while others have adjustable space diversity and multiple selectable antennae in different orientations.

Conveyor Speed. RFCT systems can control the speed of the conveyor system which is otherwise ordinarily static or fixed. For example if the RFCT information indicates that a larger than normal bulk package is on the conveyor then the speed can be decreased to increase the amount of time a bulk package is within range of an RFID reader so that all of the RFID tags contained within the bulk package can be successfully read. Conversely if a smaller than normal package is determined to be on the conveyor based on the RFCT information such as a string of individual items on the conveyor instead of the normal cases of items then the conveyor motor can be sped up in order to allow the individual items to be processed faster whereas they do not need to individually spend as much time as a case of items in the range of the RFID reader.

Video Surveillance. Using human presence sensors such as those mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs regarding RFID antenna power video surveillance can be controlled in ways not previously possible. If a camera is present and if the program logic determines from the RFCT information that video surveillance is to be enabled a video camera can be commanded to an ON state and its video data stored to memory or disk. But when the RFCT information and program logic determines that no video surveillance is needed the camera can be automatically switched off thereby avoiding use of memory or disk space to store unwanted video data. In this manner during handling of especially valuable items especially fragile items or during times requiring increased tracking and traceability video surveillance can be selectively engaged. A light stack may also be controlled using similar logic decisions in order to improve video surveillance performance or to provide automatic illumination of the package or item to be attended to by the human operator. In manner for example only certain objects with appropriately encoded RFCTs will trigger video surveillance capture to enable tracking of high value goods or critical parts with video while other objects do not require this additional surveillance and as such their RFCT s would be coded to disable video surveillance.

Other Sensory Input. Other sensory inputs that can be received by the invention and used decisions to command configuration changes initiate business processes and generate documents include but are not limited to motion sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors weight sensors light sensors and touch or infrared sensors. All of these inputs types can be triggered by reading of an RFCT. For example the invention can utilize an RFCT to trigger a weight measurement which may only be needed and initiated on certain packages or cartons but not on others.

In the application of the present invention to the software configuration of an RFID system novel capabilities result in the way in which the software selectively executes business processes. Without the invention RFID systems typically execute the same business processes on each item handled through the system thereby constraining the system to limited uses and utility unless frequent manual reconfiguration is performed.

One novel application of the invention is that the RFID system is provided with multiplicity of alternative business processes out of which it can choose the best suited business process for handling each item or bulk of items based on the RFCT information.

For example some materials are considered hazardous and will require special handling while others are not. By applying an RFCT to hazardous materials indicating this special processing the system can engage these special processes automatically when such items are detected in the system without the need for special human operator input.

A second example is that it may be beneficial to trigger other ad hoc business processes based on the objects that are handled in certain situations. A company might manufacture parts and materials that are sent to a number of customers who all have different quality inspection needs. By applying an appropriately coded RFCT the system engage a quality process would stop the current handling of materials e.g. a shipping transaction and would prompt the user to perform a quality inspection first. Such an automatic trigger of human interaction can be useful in other materials handling such as processing imported products or processing baggage and cargo to be loaded onto high risk transportation e.g. airlines ships trains etc. . Such automatic triggering of human intervention is not possible with today s RFID based handling systems.

Automatic Information Reporting and Sharing. In the application of the invention to the fields of information reporting and sharing novel capabilities result from placing configuration tags on goods and materials that allow a trigger of specific alerts and reports based on the RFCT s. For example a configuration tag can be applied to a shipment of goods that will also tell the RFID system that an electronic notification via text messaging e.g. short message service or SMS or email needs to be sent to a specific manager or supervisor.

In another embodiment of the invention particular benefits arise in conjunction with International Business Machines IBM Service Oriented Architecture SOA computing paradigm. The present invention is highly beneficial in embodiments of SOA in that it can be used to trigger a specific service based on RFCT reads. This will for example enable a supplier to ship tagged goods to a customer and then provide a business process to the customer based on a tag read event once the goods arrive at their destination.

As previously stated the RFID identification tag and the RFCT configuration tag can be one and the same or several physical RFID tags. In situations where the identification and configuration tags are contained within one tag a database would contain knowledge of which configuration to utilize based on reading the unique tag ID. In situations where there are separate identification and configuration tags the configuration tag will trigger the identification and application of a specific hardware profile business process or data reporting instruction.

Based on retrieved hardware profiles the conveyor subsystem can be commanded such as to change conveyor speed an RFID Reader Subsystem can be commanded such as to change antenna parameters e.g. polarization power position and a video surveillance subsystem can be commanded such as to enable video data capture.

By having the RFCT reader read the RFCT tags before the items or packages of items reach the RFID reader the invention is allowed to enact the hardware profiles and or business processes in time for the items or packages of items to reach the RFID reader.

As previously discussed a preferred embodiment of the invention allows for an normal RFID tag . . . to be affixed to each item and for a single RF Configuration Tag to be affixed to the bulk container such as a crate or palletized load of the items as shown in . In this manner the RFCT controls the hardware configuration and or engaged business logic for the entire bulk container of items while continuing to allow for individualized tracking of the items such as tracking by serial numbers.

From a data organization viewpoint this creates a tag hierarchy as illustrated in . In this figure there are several data objects which represent information to select a RFID Reader hardware profiles and or business processes. The appropriate data object is programmed into an RFCT tag for attachment to a bulk container of items. The RFCT can also be serialized to identify the specific carton crate or bulk of items.

Individual item RFID tags are also utilized typically each being serialized and programmed with information to identify the item make model manufacturing date etc. 

This hierarchy allows for multiple types of items to be handled according to their type for each bulk package of items to be tracked individually by bulk container serial number and for each individual item to be tracked as well.

Turning to an generalized logical process according to the present invention is shown in which a Radio Frequency Configuration Tag RFCT is read . Based upon the RFCT information one or more hardware profiles are retrieved and appropriate commands are sent to system components to reconfigure the material handling system to handle the item type identified by the RFCT.

Then one or more business processes are engaged one or more document generators are started or both depending on the contents of the RFCT to complete the customization of the material handling for the item type identified by the RFCT. Finally RFID tag reading of the individual item RFID tags is performed under the re configured conditions and using the engaged business processes.

One or more documentation processes may also be automatically engaged as mentioned in previous paragraphs such as production of special documents for export paperwork or production of quality traceability documents.

In yet other embodiments the invention may perform any combination of automatic reader hardware configuration changes business process initiation and document production. For example in one embodiment certain business processes and document generators can be automatically initiated without implementation of changes to the reader hardware.

In one embodiment of the invention the functionality of the RFID reading and material handling system including the previously described logical processes are performed in part or wholly by software executed by a computer such as personal computers web servers web browsers or even an appropriately capable portable computing platform such as personal digital assistant PDA web enabled wireless telephone or other type of personal information management PIM device. In alternate embodiments some or all of the functionality of the invention are realized in other logical forms such as circuitry.

Therefore it is useful to review a generalized architecture of a computing platform which may span the range of implementation from a high end web or enterprise server platform to a personal computer to a portable PDA or web enabled wireless phone.

Turning to a generalized architecture is presented including a central processing unit CPU which is typically comprised of a microprocessor associated with random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Often the CPU is also provided with cache memory and programmable FlashROM . The interface between the microprocessor and the various types of CPU memory is often referred to as a local bus but also may be a more generic or industry standard bus.

Many computing platforms are also provided with one or more storage drives such as hard disk drives HDD floppy disk drives compact disc drives CD CD R CD RW DVD DVD R etc. and proprietary disk and tape drives e.g. Iomega Zip and Jaz Addonics SuperDisk etc. . Additionally some storage drives may be accessible over a computer network.

Many computing platforms are provided with one or more communication interfaces according to the function intended of the computing platform. For example a personal computer is often provided with a high speed serial port RS 232 RS 422 etc. an enhanced parallel port EPP and one or more universal serial bus USB ports. The computing platform may also be provided with a local area network LAN interface such as an Ethernet card and other high speed interfaces such as the High Performance Serial Bus IEEE 1394.

Computing platforms such as wireless telephones and wireless networked PDA s may also be provided with a radio frequency RF interface with antenna as well. In some cases the computing platform may be provided with an infrared data arrangement IrDA interface too.

Computing platforms are often equipped with one or more internal expansion slots such as Industry Standard Architecture ISA Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI or proprietary interface slots for the addition of other hardware such as sound cards memory boards and graphics accelerators.

Additionally many units such as laptop computers and PDA s are provided with one or more external expansion slots allowing the user the ability to easily install and remove hardware expansion devices such as PCMCIA cards SmartMedia cards and various proprietary modules such as removable hard drives CD drives and floppy drives.

Often the storage drives communication interfaces internal expansion slots and external expansion slots are interconnected with the CPU via a standard or industry open bus architecture such as ISA EISA or PCI. In many cases the bus may be of a proprietary design.

A computing platform is usually provided with one or more user input devices such as a keyboard or a keypad and mouse or pointer device and or a touch screen display . In the case of a personal computer a full size keyboard is often provided along with a mouse or pointer device such as a track ball or TrackPoint . In the case of a web enabled wireless telephone a simple keypad may be provided with one or more function specific keys. In the case of a PDA a touch screen is usually provided often with handwriting recognition capabilities.

Additionally a microphone such as the microphone of a web enabled wireless telephone or the microphone of a personal computer is supplied with the computing platform. This microphone may be used for simply reporting audio and voice signals and it may also be used for entering user choices such as voice navigation of web sites or auto dialing telephone numbers using voice recognition capabilities.

Many computing platforms are also equipped with a camera device such as a still digital camera or full motion video digital camera.

One or more user output devices such as a display are also provided with most computing platforms. The display may take many forms including a Cathode Ray Tube CRT a Thin Flat Transistor TFT array or a simple set of light emitting diodes LED or liquid crystal display LCD indicators.

One or more speakers and or annunciators are often associated with computing platforms too. The speakers may be used to reproduce audio and music such as the speaker of a wireless telephone or the speakers of a personal computer. Annunciators may take the form of simple beep emitters or buzzers commonly found on certain devices such as PDAs and PIMs.

These user input and output devices may be directly interconnected to the CPU via a proprietary bus structure and or interfaces or they may be interconnected through one or more industry open buses such as ISA EISA PCI etc.

The computing platform is also provided with one or more software and firmware programs to implement the desired functionality of the computing platforms.

Turning to now more detail is given of a generalized organization of software and firmware on this range of computing platforms. One or more operating system OS native application programs may be provided on the computing platform such as word processors spreadsheets contact management utilities address book calendar email client presentation financial and bookkeeping programs.

Additionally one or more portable or device independent programs may be provided which must be interpreted by an OS native platform specific interpreter such as Java scripts and programs.

Often computing platforms are also provided with a form of web browser or micro browser which may also include one or more extensions to the browser such as browser plug ins .

The computing device is often provided with an operating system such as Microsoft Windows UNIX IBM OS 2 IBM AIX open source LINUX Apple s MAC OS or other platform specific operating systems. Smaller devices such as PDA s and wireless telephones may be equipped with other forms of operating systems such as real time operating systems RTOS or Palm Computing s PalmOS .

A set of basic input and output functions BIOS and hardware device drivers are often provided to allow the operating system and programs to interface to and control the specific hardware functions provided with the computing platform.

Additionally one or more embedded firmware programs are commonly provided with many computing platforms which are executed by onboard or embedded microprocessors as part of the peripheral device such as a micro controller or a hard drive a communication processor network interface card or sound or graphics card.

As such and describe in a general sense the various hardware components software and firmware programs of a wide variety of computing platforms including but not limited to personal computers PDAs PIMs web enabled telephones and other appliances such as WebTV units. As such we now turn our attention to disclosure of the present invention relative to the processes and methods preferably implemented as software and firmware on such a computing platform. It will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that the following methods and processes may be alternatively realized as hardware functions in part or in whole without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Alternative embodiments of the present invention include some or all of the foregoing logical processes and functions of the invention being provided by configuring software deploying software downloading software distributing software or remotely serving clients in an on demand environment.

Software Deployment Embodiment. According to one embodiment of the invention the methods and processes of the invention are distributed or deployed as a service by a service provider to a client s computing system s .

Turning to the deployment process begins by determining if there are any programs that will reside on a server or servers when the process software is executed. If this is the case then the servers that will contain the executables are identified . The process software for the server or servers is transferred directly to the servers storage via FTP or some other protocol or by copying through the use of a shared files system . The process software is then installed on the servers .

Next a determination is made on whether the process software is to be deployed by having users access the process software on a server or servers . If the users are to access the process software on servers then the server addresses that will store the process software are identified .

In step a determination is made whether the process software is to be developed by sending the process software to users via e mail. The set of users where the process software will be deployed are identified together with the addresses of the user client computers . The process software is sent via e mail to each of the user s client computers. The users then receive the e mail and then detach the process software from the e mail to a directory on their client computers . The user executes the program that installs the process software on his client computer then exits the process .

A determination is made if a proxy server is to be built to store the process software. A proxy server is a server that sits between a client application such as a Web browser and a real server. It intercepts all requests to the real server to see if it can fulfill the requests itself. If not it forwards the request to the real server. The two primary benefits of a proxy server are to improve performance and to filter requests. If a proxy server is required then the proxy server is installed . The process software is sent to the servers either via a protocol such as FTP or it is copied directly from the source files to the server files via file sharing . Another embodiment would be to send a transaction to the servers that contained the process software and have the server process the transaction then receive and copy the process software to the server s file system. Once the process software is stored at the servers the users via their client computers then access the process software on the servers and copy to their client computers file systems . Another embodiment is to have the servers automatically copy the process software to each client and then run the installation program for the process software at each client computer. The user executes the program that installs the process software on his client computer then exits the process .

Lastly a determination is made on whether the process software will be sent directly to user directories on their client computers . If so the user directories are identified . The process software is transferred directly to the user s client computer directory . This can be done in several ways such as but not limited to sharing of the file system directories and then copying from the sender s file system to the recipient user s file system or alternatively using a transfer protocol such as File Transfer Protocol FTP . The users access the directories on their client file systems in preparation for installing the process software . The user executes the program that installs the process software on his client computer then exits the process .

Software Integration Embodiment. According to another embodiment of the present invention software embodying the methods and processes disclosed herein are integrated as a service by a service provider to other software applications applets or computing systems.

Integration of the invention generally includes providing for the process software to coexist with applications operating systems and network operating systems software and then installing the process software on the clients and servers in the environment where the process software will function.

Generally speaking the first task is to identify any software on the clients and servers including the network operating system where the process software will be deployed that are required by the process software or that work in conjunction with the process software. This includes the network operating system that is software that enhances a basic operating system by adding networking features. Next the software applications and version numbers will be identified and compared to the list of software applications and version numbers that have been tested to work with the process software. Those software applications that are missing or that do not match the correct version will be upgraded with the correct version numbers. Program instructions that pass parameters from the process software to the software applications will be checked to ensure the parameter lists matches the parameter lists required by the process software. Conversely parameters passed by the software applications to the process software will be checked to ensure the parameters match the parameters required by the process software. The client and server operating systems including the network operating systems will be identified and compared to the list of operating systems version numbers and network software that have been tested to work with the process software. Those operating systems version numbers and network software that do not match the list of tested operating systems and version numbers will be upgraded on the clients and servers to the required level.

After ensuring that the software where the process software is to be deployed is at the correct version level that has been tested to work with the process software the integration is completed by installing the process software on the clients and servers.

Turning to details of the integration process according to the invention are shown. Integrating begins by determining if there are any process software programs that will execute on a server or servers . If this is not the case then integration proceeds to . If this is the case then the server addresses are identified . The servers are checked to see if they contain software that includes the operating system OS applications and network operating systems NOS together with their version numbers that have been tested with the process software . The servers are also checked to determine if there is any missing software that is required by the process software .

A determination is made if the version numbers match the version numbers of OS applications and NOS that have been tested with the process software . If all of the versions match then processing continues . Otherwise if one or more of the version numbers do not match then the unmatched versions are updated on the server or servers with the correct versions . Additionally if there is missing required software then it is updated on the server or servers . The server integration is completed by installing the process software .

Step which follows either or determines if there are any programs of the process software that will execute on the clients. If no process software programs execute on the clients the integration proceeds to and exits. If this is not the case then the client addresses are identified .

The clients are checked to see if they contain software that includes the operating system OS applications and network operating systems NOS together with their version numbers that have been tested with the process software . The clients are also checked to determine if there is any missing software that is required by the process software .

A determination is made if the version numbers match the version numbers of OS applications and NOS that have been tested with the process software . If all of the versions match and there is no missing required software then the integration proceeds to and exits.

If one or more of the version numbers do not match then the unmatched versions are updated on the clients with the correct versions . In addition if there is missing required software then it is updated on the clients . The client integration is completed by installing the process software on the clients . The integration proceeds to and exits.

Application Programming Interface Embodiment. In another embodiment the invention may be realized as a service or functionality available to other systems and devices via an Application Programming Interface API . One such embodiment is to provide the service to a client system from a server system as a web service.

On Demand Computing Services Embodiment. According to another aspect of the present invention the processes and methods disclosed herein are provided through an on demand computing architecture to render service to a client by a service provider.

Turning to generally speaking the process software embodying the methods disclosed herein is shared simultaneously serving multiple customers in a flexible automated fashion. It is standardized requiring little customization and it is scaleable providing capacity on demand in a pay as you go model.

The process software can be stored on a shared file system accessible from one or more servers. The process software is executed via transactions that contain data and server processing requests that use CPU units on the accessed server. CPU units are units of time such as minutes seconds hours on the central processor of the server. Additionally the assessed server may make requests of other servers that require CPU units. CPU units are an example that represents but one measurement of use. Other measurements of use include but are not limited to network bandwidth memory usage storage usage packet transfers complete transactions etc.

When multiple customers use the same process software application their transactions are differentiated by the parameters included in the transactions that identify the unique customer and the type of service for that customer. All of the CPU units and other measurements of use that are used for the services for each customer are recorded. When the number of transactions to any one server reaches a number that begins to effect the performance of that server other servers are accessed to increase the capacity and to share the workload. Likewise when other measurements of use such as network bandwidth memory usage storage usage etc. approach a capacity so as to effect performance additional network bandwidth memory usage storage etc. are added to share the workload.

The measurements of use used for each service and customer are sent to a collecting server that sums the measurements of use for each customer for each service that was processed anywhere in the network of servers that provide the shared execution of the process software. The summed measurements of use units are periodically multiplied by unit costs and the resulting total process software application service costs are alternatively sent to the customer and or indicated on a web site accessed by the computer which then remits payment to the service provider.

In another embodiment the service provider requests payment directly from a customer account at a banking or financial institution.

In another embodiment if the service provider is also a customer of the customer that uses the process software application the payment owed to the service provider is reconciled to the payment owed by the service provider to minimize the transfer of payments.

The server central processing unit CPU capacities in the On Demand environment are queried . The CPU requirement of the transaction is estimated then the servers available CPU capacity in the On Demand environment are compared to the transaction CPU requirement to see if there is sufficient CPU available capacity in any server to process the transaction . If there is not sufficient server CPU available capacity then additional server CPU capacity is allocated to process the transaction . If there was already sufficient available CPU capacity then the transaction is sent to a selected server .

Before executing the transaction a check is made of the remaining On Demand environment to determine if the environment has sufficient available capacity for processing the transaction. This environment capacity consists of such things as but not limited to network bandwidth processor memory storage etc. . If there is not sufficient available capacity then capacity will be added to the On Demand environment . Next the required software to process the transaction is accessed loaded into memory then the transaction is executed .

The usage measurements are recorded . The usage measurements consists of the portions of those functions in the On Demand environment that are used to process the transaction. The usage of such functions as but not limited to network bandwidth processor memory storage and CPU cycles are what is recorded. The usage measurements are summed multiplied by unit costs and then recorded as a charge to the requesting customer .

If the customer has requested that the On Demand costs be posted to a web site then they are posted . If the customer has requested that the On Demand costs be sent via e mail to a customer address then they are sent . If the customer has requested that the On Demand costs be paid directly from a customer account then payment is received directly from the customer account . The last step is to exit the On Demand process.

Grid or Parallel Processing Embodiment. According to another embodiment of the present invention multiple computers are used to simultaneously process individual audio tracks individual audio snippets or a combination of both to yield output with less delay. Such a parallel computing approach may be realized using multiple discrete systems e.g. a plurality of servers clients or both or may be realized as an internal multiprocessing task e.g. a single system with parallel processing capabilities .

VPN Deployment Embodiment. According to another aspect of the present invention the methods and processes described herein may be embodied in part or in entirety in software which can be deployed to third parties as part of a service wherein a third party VPN service is offered as a secure deployment vehicle or wherein a VPN is build on demand as required for a specific deployment.

A virtual private network VPN is any combination of technologies that can be used to secure a connection through an otherwise unsecured or untrusted network. VPNs improve security and reduce operational costs. The VPN makes use of a public network usually the Internet to connect remote sites or users together. Instead of using a dedicated real world connection such as leased line the VPN uses virtual connections routed through the Internet from the company s private network to the remote site or employee. Access to the software via a VPN can be provided as a service by specifically constructing the VPN for purposes of delivery or execution of the process software i.e. the software resides elsewhere wherein the lifetime of the VPN is limited to a given period of time or a given number of deployments based on an amount paid.

The process software may be deployed accessed and executed through either a remote access or a site to site VPN. When using the remote access VPNs the process software is deployed accessed and executed via the secure encrypted connections between a company s private network and remote users through a third party service provider. The enterprise service provider ESP sets a network access server NAS and provides the remote users with desktop client software for their computers. The telecommuters can then dial a toll free number to attach directly via a cable or DSL modem to reach the NAS and use their VPN client software to access the corporate network and to access download and execute the process software.

When using the site to site VPN the process software is deployed accessed and executed through the use of dedicated equipment and large scale encryption that are used to connect a company s multiple fixed sites over a public network such as the Internet.

The process software is transported over the VPN via tunneling which is the process of placing an entire packet within another packet and sending it over the network. The protocol of the outer packet is understood by the network and both points called tunnel interfaces where the packet enters and exits the network.

Turning to VPN deployment process starts by determining if a VPN for remote access is required . If it is not required then proceed to . If it is required then determine if the remote access VPN exits .

If a VPN does exist then the VPN deployment process proceeds to identify a third party provider that will provide the secure encrypted connections between the company s private network and the company s remote users . The company s remote users are identified . The third party provider then sets up a network access server NAS that allows the remote users to dial a toll free number or attach directly via a broadband modem to access download and install the desktop client software for the remote access VPN .

After the remote access VPN has been built or if it has been previously installed the remote users can access the process software by dialing into the NAS or attaching directly via a cable or DSL modem into the NAS . This allows entry into the corporate network where the process software is accessed . The process software is transported to the remote user s desktop over the network via tunneling. That is the process software is divided into packets and each packet including the data and protocol is placed within another packet . When the process software arrives at the remote user s desktop it is removed from the packets reconstituted and then is executed on the remote users desktop .

A determination is made to see if a VPN for site to site access is required . If it is not required then proceed to exit the process . Otherwise determine if the site to site VPN exists . If it does exist then proceed to . Otherwise install the dedicated equipment required to establish a site to site VPN . Then build the large scale encryption into the VPN .

After the site to site VPN has been built or if it had been previously established the users access the process software via the VPN . The process software is transported to the site users over the network via tunneling. That is the process software is divided into packets and each packet including the data and protocol is placed within another packet . When the process software arrives at the remote user s desktop it is removed from the packets reconstituted and is executed on the site users desktop . Proceed to exit the process .

In another embodiment of the invention logical processes according to the invention and described herein are encoded on or in one or more computer readable media. Some computer readable media are read only e.g. they must be initially programmed using a different device than that which is ultimately used to read the data from the media some are write only e.g. from the data encoders perspective they can only be encoded but not read simultaneously or read write. Still some other media are write once read many times.

Some media are relatively fixed in their mounting mechanisms while others are removable or even transmittable. All computer readable media form two types of systems when encoded with data and or computer software a when removed from a drive or reading mechanism they are memory devices which generate useful data driven outputs when stimulated with appropriate electromagnetic electronic and or optical signals and b when installed in a drive or reading device they form a data repository system accessible by a computer.

Similarly another form of computer readable media is a flexible removable floppy disk which is inserted into a drive which houses an access head. The floppy disk typically includes a flexible magnetically encodable disk which is accessible by the drive head through a window in a sliding cover .

A Compact Disk CD is usually a plastic disk which is encoded using an optical and or magneto optical process and then is read using generally an optical process. Some CD s are read only CD ROM and are mass produced prior to distribution and use by reading types of drives. Other CD s are writable e.g. CD RW CD R either once or many time. Digital Versatile Disks DVD are advanced versions of CD s which often include double sided encoding of data and even multiple layer encoding of data. Like a floppy disk a CD or DVD is a removable media.

Another common type of removable media are several types of removable circuit based e.g. solid state memory devices such as Compact Flash CF Secure Data SD Sony s MemoryStick Universal Serial Bus USB FlashDrives and Thumbdrives and others. These devices are typically plastic housings which incorporate a digital memory chip such as a battery backed random access chip RAM or a Flash Read Only Memory FlashROM . Available to the external portion of the media is one or more electronic connectors for engaging a connector such as a CF drive slot or a USB slot. Devices such as a USB FlashDrive are accessed using a serial data methodology where other devices such as the CF are accessed using a parallel methodology. These devices often offer faster access times than disk based media as well as increased reliability and decreased susceptibility to mechanical shock and vibration. Often they provide less storage capability than comparably priced disk based media.

Yet another type of computer readable media device is a memory module often referred to as a SIMM or DIMM. Similar to the CF SD and FlashDrives these modules incorporate one or more memory devices such as Dynamic RAM DRAM mounted on a circuit board having one or more electronic connectors for engaging and interfacing to another circuit such as a Personal Computer motherboard. These types of memory modules are not usually encased in an outer housing as they are intended for installation by trained technicians and are generally protected by a larger outer housing such as a Personal Computer chassis.

Turning now to another embodiment option of the present invention is shown in which a computer readable signal is encoded with software data or both which implement logical processes according to the invention. is generalized to represent the functionality of wireless wired electro optical and optical signaling systems. For example the system shown in can be realized in a manner suitable for wireless transmission over Radio Frequencies RF as well as over optical signals such as InfraRed Data Arrangement IrDA . The system of may also be realized in another manner to serve as a data transmitter data receiver or data transceiver for a USB system such as a drive to read the aforementioned USB FlashDrive or to access the serially stored data on a disk such as a CD or hard drive platter.

In general a microprocessor or microcontroller reads writes or both data to from storage for data program or both . A data interface optionally including a digital to analog converter cooperates with an optional protocol stack to send receive or transceive data between the system front end and the microprocessor . The protocol stack is adapted to the signal type being sent received or transceived. For example in a Local Area Network LAN embodiment the protocol stack may implement Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . In a computer to computer or computer to peripheral embodiment the protocol stack may implement all or portions of USB FireWire RS 232 Point to Point Protocol PPP etc.

The system s front end or analog front end is adapted to the signal type being modulated demodulate or transcoded. For example in an RF based system the analog front end comprises various local oscillators modulators demodulators etc. which implement signaling formats such as Frequency Modulation FM Amplitude Modulation AM Phase Modulation PM Pulse Code Modulation PCM etc. Such an RF based embodiment typically includes an antenna for transmitting receiving or transceiving electromagnetic signals via open air water earth or via RF wave guides and coaxial cable. Some common open air transmission standards are BlueTooth Global Services for Mobile Communications GSM Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Advanced Mobile Phone Service AMPS and Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi .

In another example embodiment the analog front end may be adapted to sending receiving or transceiving signals via an optical interface such as laser based optical interfaces e.g. Wavelength Division Multiplexed SONET etc. or Infra Red Data Arrangement IrDA interfaces . Similarly the analog front end may be adapted to sending receiving or transceiving signals via cable using a cable interface which also includes embodiments such as USB Ethernet LAN twisted pair coax Plain old Telephone Service POTS etc.

Signals transmitted received or transceived as well as data encoded on disks or in memory devices may be encoded to protect it from unauthorized decoding and use. Other types of encoding may be employed to allow for error detection and in some cases correction such as by addition of parity bits or Cyclic Redundancy Codes CRC . Still other types of encoding may be employed to allow directing or routing of data to the correct destination such as packet and frame based protocols.

Parallel data can be represented as the flow of data signals aligned in time such that parallel data unit byte word d word etc. is transmitted with each bit D Dbeing on a bus or signal carrier simultaneously where the width of the data unit is n 1. In some systems Dis used to represent the least significant bit LSB and in other systems it represents the most significant bit MSB . Data is serialized by sending one bit at a time such that each data unit is sent in serial fashion one after another typically according to a protocol.

As such the parallel data stored in computer memory is often accessed by a microprocessor or Parallel to Serial Converter via a parallel bus and exchanged e.g. transmitted received or transceived via a serial bus . Received serial data is converted back into parallel data before storing it in computer memory usually. The serial bus generalized in may be a wired bus such as USB or Firewire or a wireless communications medium such as an RF or optical channel as previously discussed.

In these manners various embodiments of the invention may be realized by encoding software data or both according to the logical processes of the invention into one or more computer readable mediums thereby yielding a product of manufacture and a system which when properly read received or decoded yields useful programming instructions data or both including but not limited to the computer readable media types described in the foregoing paragraphs.

While certain examples and details of a preferred embodiment have been disclosed it will be recognized by those skilled in the art that variations in implementation such as use of different programming methodologies computing platforms and processing technologies may be adopted without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore the scope of the invention should be determined by the following claims.

