---

title: Conversion and liquidation of defaulted positions
abstract: A method of liquidating defaulted positions associated with centrally cleared financial product is disclosed. The method includes identifying a defaulted position associated with a centrally cleared financial product, calculating a value differential between the defaulted position and a standard position, offering the value differential and the standard position to a party such that the value differential and the standard position represent a converted position, and settling the converted position upon acceptance of the offer by the party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751350&OS=08751350&RS=08751350
owner: Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Inc.
number: 08751350
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071212
---
This patent is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 950 117 filed on Dec. 4 2007 titled FACTORIZATION OF INTEREST RATE SWAP VARIATION the content of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

This patent generally relates to methods systems and processes for the administration of financial instruments and more specifically to conversion and liquidation of defaulted open positions for illiquid markets.

An interest rate swap IRS is an example of one type of an illiquid financial product in which the parties agree to exchange streams of future interest payments based on a specified principal or notional amount. An IRS Swaps are often used to hedge interest rate risk or may be used for speculative purposes. An example of an IRS is a plain fixed to floating or vanilla interest rate swap. The vanilla swap includes an exchange of a stream of payments based on a floating rate with a stream based on a fixed rate. Both payment streams are calculated over a notional amount.

Usually at least one of the legs to a swap has a variable rate. The rate is called variable because it may be reset. The variable interest rate may be linked to a periodically known or agreed upon rate for the term of the swap such as the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR . The variable rate may be based on other agreed upon factors such as a reference rate the total return of an asset an economic statistic etc. Other examples of swaps include total return swaps and equity swaps.

The expiration or maturity of the streams of payments may occur well into the future. A book of existing and new IRSs may include swaps having a variety of maturity dates. Currently financial institutions such as banks engage in swaps in an illiquid market where each party bears the risk of default by the other party. That is each party bears the credit risk of having any one or all of its counterparties defaulting on the payments.

For interest rate swaps and other illiquid derivative products that are centrally cleared the central counterparty takes on the credit risk of the parties. That is a central counterparty may be the counterparty to each party to the IRS transaction thereby eliminating the credit risk for each party. The central counterparty may be a clearing house such as the clearing house of the CME Group Inc. located at 20 South Wacker Drive Chicago Ill. The central counterparty may act as a guarantor to each party of the streams of payments to each. The central counterparty may mitigate its credit risks for each party by requiring each party to maintain a minimum amount of funds that are readily accessible to the clearing house. The amount of the funds may be periodically determined such as through a periodic mark to mark process.

The risk to the central counterparty may exist for the life of a stream of payments. Even if one of the parties were to default on an IRS the central counterparty would take on the position to continue to guarantee payments to the non defaulting party associated with the IRS. To mitigate its risks the central counterparty would liquidate the position in the market. However for defaulted positions in illiquid markets it may not be possible to find a reasonable liquidation for the defaulted position.

It would be desirable to provide methods systems and processes for the administration conversion and liquidation of defaulted open positions for illiquid markets.

Systems and processes for converting and liquidating of defaulted positions such as open positions derived or resulting from interest rate swaps IRS transactions are disclosed. The disclosed systems and processes are not limited to open positions derived or resulting from IRS transactions or any particular illiquid financial instruments. Instead the systems and processes may be generally applied to any negotiable financial instruments and investment vehicles. In one exemplary embodiment innovations for converting and liquidating of defaulted positions for centrally cleared illiquid products are disclosed. For example an embodiment provides for desirable conversion of a defaulted position in an illiquid market for an IRS.

In one embodiment a method of liquidating defaulted positions associated with centrally cleared financial product is disclosed. The method includes identifying a defaulted position associated with a centrally cleared financial product calculating a value differential between the defaulted position and a standard position offering the value differential and the standard position to a party such that the value differential and the standard position represent a converted position and settling the converted position upon acceptance of the offer by the party.

In another embodiment a method of liquidating defaulted positions associated with centrally cleared financial product is disclosed. The method includes identifying a defaulted position associated with a centrally cleared financial product identifying at least one non defaulting party such that the non defaulting party holds at least one position determined to be similar to the defaulted position calculating a net present value differential between the defaulted position and a standard position establishing an auction for the at least one non defaulting party based on the value differential and the standard position to a party such that the value differential and the standard position represent a converted position and settling the converted position upon acceptance of an offer by the at least one non defaulting party.

In another embodiment a default position auction system for auctioning defaulted positions associated with illiquid financial instruments is disclosed. The system includes a processor in communication with a computer readable medium the computer readable medium storing instructions executable by the processor. The instructions may be configured to clear transactions associated with illiquid financial products wherein at least one of the transactions results in an open position associated with the illiquid financial product held by a party to the transaction determine a performance bond requirement associated with the open position calculate a default position according to a failure of the party to comply with the performance bond requirement convert the defaulted position to a financial equivalent position having a converted term and establish an auction for the converted defaulted position in an open market for a financial instrument having the converted term the converted defaulted position being offered in an electronic trading system.

Other embodiments are disclosed and each of the embodiments can be used alone or together in combination. Additional features and advantages of the disclosed embodiments are described in and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

Exemplary embodiments of methods apparatuses systems and financial products that provide for efficient conversion and liquidation of defaulted positions such as for example a defaulted position on an IRS product are disclosed and discussed below. Embodiments for conversion and liquidation of defaulted positions provide for clearing of a defaulted position from a central counterparty. Methods for converting and liquidating defaulted positions may convert a sunk cost defaulted swap into a recoverable and attractive swap through a valuation of illiquid swaps. This conversion may provide both counterparties i.e. buyers and sellers with advantages such as being able to buy a converted swap at a discount and sell it at market value. A seller may offload the credit default risk and continue an originally agreed upon swap contract.

At block a central counterparty or clearing house such as the CME Group Inc. located at 20 South Wacker Drive Chicago Ill. may determine that a party to a swap position or contract has defaulted. In other words the central counterparty determines that at least one party to for example a swap product has failed to perform on its portion of the swap contract. Upon this determination the central counterparty may identify and determine other non defaulting parties holding positions opposite to that of the swap position in default. For example if the swap position in default represents a fixed leg of an interest rate swap IRS then the central counterparty may identify all of the parties to the floating legs of similarly situated swaps.

At block the current or present financial value of the swap position in default may be determined. For example the swap or other financial product that is the source if the swap position in default may have been in existence long enough to have a non standard term e.g. a nine and a half 9.5 year term as opposed to a standard nine 9 or ten 10 year term. This non standard term results in the swap contract being considered illiquid because it is not readily tradable or disposable. Thus in order to determine the current or present financial value of the illiquid swap position in default a net present value NPV differential between the illiquid swap position having the non standard term and the liquid or standardized swap position having a standard term may be calculated.

The exemplary method may be evaluated utilizing one or more yield curve not shown that may be utilized to determine the NPV differential as a function of a swap value factor SVF between the liquid swap curve and the illiquid swap curve. For example in the case of a forward swap having a nine and a half 9.5 year maturity a pay fixed rate of five point one five percent 5.15 and a receive floating rate pegged at the three month LIBOR 3M LIBOR . It will be understood that the volume of trading on a nine and a half year swap is virtually zero while the volume of trade on a standard ten year swap is very large. Thus in order to liquidate the nine and a half year swap to would be desirable to convert the illiquid swap to a liquid i.e. easily tradable 10 year swap. Mathematically the relationship between these two swaps and their values may be described as NPV 9.5 year Swap NPV 0.5 year forward Swap NPV 10 year Swap where the NPV 0.5 year forward Swap is unknown and must be calculated and or estimated as the Recovery Conversion Value RCV in order to determine the value of the illiquid swap position in default. Stated another way the RCV is the amount of liquidity premium that market participants require to assume or take on the defaulted and illiquid swap. The SVF is the sum of the day count adjusted discount factors of the swap yield curve to a desired maturity. Additional details related to the SVF are discussed and described in the incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 950 117. The equations 1 to 4 of Table 1 provide an exemplary mathematical illustration of how the RCV may be determined. Equations 5 and 6 provide a specific example of how the Implied Price of an nine and a half year 9.5 swap may be determined.

Table 2 illustrates two exemplary results that may be calculated utilizing the equations 1 to 6 shown in Table 1. Example 1 illustrates a situation in which the implied value or the nine and a half 9.5 year swap is greater 5 000 the negative sign indicates that the central counterparty must pay this amount to parties of the swap . Similarly example 2 illustrates a situation in which the implied value or the nine and a half 9.5 year swap is less 5 000 in this instance the central counterparty receives or should receive this amount from parties of the swap 

Returning to at block the central clearing party may allow the identified non defaulting parties holding positions opposite to that of the swap position in default to bid or offer to purchase or assume the position of the default swap. If as is the case in Example 1 the NPV differential is negative 5 000 then the central counterparty may accept bids from non defaulting parties to convert the position s . If as is the case in Example 2 the NPV differential is positive 5 000 a potential case of a downward slope in the yield curve in the example of the eight and a half 9.5 to ten 10 year then central counterparty may accept offers or negative bids to convert the position s . If no bids or offers are indicated the clearing house may randomly assign owner s from the available counter parties with the implied differential as variation. This no bid scenario is not likely since the central counterparty may require or otherwise mandate that cleared swaps market makers to agree to bid or make an offer in order to be designated as market makers.

At block the central counterparty may offload the once illiquid and now converted swap positions to the winning bidder or offering party.

As previously discussed it may be assumed that the illiquid swap is a previously defined and contracted swap between two parties one of which has been determined to be in default. Because the illiquid swap has a non standard maturity and term it is considered to be illiquid i.e. there is little or no trading market for a financial product having this non standard maturity. Thus in order to dispose of the defaulted swap product the central counterparty may convert it to for example the standard swap for which a trading market exists.

As an initial matter the differential NPV of the illiquid swap and the standard swap may be determined. The calculated differential NPV equals approximately nine thousand dollars 8 906.43 based on the parameters discussed in connection with this example. In this instance the NPV differential is negative i.e. the central counterparty would be required to pay out all or part of the 8 906.43 to a non defaulting party interested in assuming defaulted let of the converted swap because the NPV of the standard swap is greater than the NPV of the illiquid swap . In other words as previously discussed the central counterparty could allow non defaulting parties interested in a ten year swap to bid how much they are willing to pay to convert the position s to receive the variation. In another embodiment the central counterparty may obtain a neutralizing liquid swap prior e.g. the standard swap to converting the illiquid swap such that the final long short positions are zero.

The conversion diagram illustrates an example of converting the illiquid swap to the standard i.e. longer dated and more liquid swap . As previously discussed upon determining that the illiquid swap is in default the central counterparty may identify and determine other non defaulting parties holding positions opposite to that of the swap position in default. Assume for the purposes of this example that the defaulting party is long on the floating leg i.e. the defaulting party pays the fixed leg party.

Table 3 provides and lists equations 1 to 6 which may be utilized to calculate the Recovery Conversion Value RCV associated with the nine and a half year illiquid swap . As previously discussed in connection with Table 1 the equations 1 to 4a provide an exemplary mathematical illustration of how the Recovery Conversion Value may be determined. Equations 5 and 6 provide a specific example of how the Implied Price of a nine and a half year 9.5 swap may be determined.

Depending upon the results determined based on the equations 1 to 6 a number of different scenarios may be encountered. The first scenario occurs if the calculated Recovery Conversion Value RCV is greater than zero such that the defaulted illiquid swap fixed leg payer receives the RCV. In other words the defaulted leg of the illiquid swap has a greater market value than the currently offered standard swaps . Thus the central counterparty can convince another non defaulting party to assume the fixed side of the standard swap . Stated another way the central counterparty can offer the standard swap at a value between 0

The second scenario occurs if the calculated Recovery Conversion Value RCV is less than zero such that the defaulted illiquid swap fixed leg payer pays the RCV. In this situation the illiquid OTC swap is worse less than the standard swap which means that the central counterparty may experience difficulties convincing another non defaulting party to assume the fixed side of the desired swap. Thus the central counterparty may be forces to provide a monetary incentive e.g. a Spread on top of RCV. The standard swap may be offered by the central counterparty at a value between RCV

The steps elements and processes discussed herein may be encoded as program logic computer readable code and or instructions. These encoded elements in turn may be stored or embedded on a computer readable medium such as for example a hard disk drive a solid state drive or other storage medium. The computer readable medium may be in communication with a processor which in response to an appropriate input or command may execute the program logic stored on the computer readable medium. The execution of this program logic may result in the execution of the step elements and processes embodied and discussed herein.

It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the teachings of the present invention and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

