---

title: Method, components and system for tracking and controlling end user privacy
abstract: A privacy service is provided for use in protection of user data transferred in a network, including a converged network. The privacy service extracts and measures service elements of a message containing user data. The service elements include an identity element, a trust element, a rights element and a security element. The privacy service performs security by comparing service elements with a user defined privacy policy. The privacy policy may also be based on particular factors relating to the application, context, and time of the message. In another embodiment, the privacy service provides controls that indicate when user data is misappropriated as a result of an infringement of the user defined privacy policy. Further the privacy service provides a means to audit and trace deviations from the privacy policy for the purpose of repudiation, or future defense of security threats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07877494&OS=07877494&RS=07877494
owner: InterDigital Technology Corporation
number: 07877494
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070517
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 801 153. filed on May 17 2006 which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth.

The present invention relates wireless communication systems in particular to dynamic privacy service PS particularly for use in converged wireless networks.

In general privacy is an end user state such as a state of being secluded from the presence of or view of others a state of being free from unsanctioned intrusion or a state of being concealed. There may be different states instantaneously for any or all of the attributes that define an end user state of privacy. These states and their importance may change based on application context and time per an explicit or implicit policy. For example to a shy teenager their first object of secret affection may carry the highest of privacy concern however to the same adult it is nothing more than a cute snippet of low privacy merit.

A quantifiable privacy experienced by an end user is reflected in a delta between a policy state i.e. what is desired and an observed state i.e. what actually happens .

In newer communications landscape that are emerging the term converged network is often used to describe the steady evolution revolution that is taking place in the world of communications. Wireless networks are becoming increasingly diverse. Current systems provide limited single function devices that are closely tied to single networks. Emerging systems will utilize flexible powerful devices with transparent access across multiple heterogeneous networks.

Such a converged network provides new opportunities to deliver new or enhanced services to end users. The inventors have recognized that such services may include broadband on the go and info fuelling intelligent information transfer using best available network health and wellness via sensor networks and integrated location services so that the end user will experience a true sense of always being connected always being plugged in .

The inventors have further recognized a number of challenges that lie in the path of the converged network vision. Examples of these challenges include How do you provide access to multiple heterogeneous networks in a manner that is transparent to the user How will users interact with their devices in order to support and simplify interaction with multiple networks How do you provide manageability across multiple stakeholders How do you provide battery life sufficient to support extended use of advanced transport technologies In particular the inventors have recognized the need to define and address problems created by the converged network in the area of privacy and security. The following observations have been made by the inventors.

An end user s experience in a converged network may be described as continuous. With the increasing ubiquity and diversity of available communication schema an end user will typically be always connected to a converged network. Thus it will be possible for user data flows to occur continuously with near minimal impedance. The end user relationship with the converged network will also become increasingly intimate with context aware technologies e.g. location presence behavior supporting an increasingly human like interaction between the end user and the communication environment.

Virtually any digital information or content or plurality thereof that may be created or consumed by an end user or on behalf of an end user can be communicated as user data via a node in a converged network. User data may be created or consumed voluntarily or involuntarily. Further user data may be stored in or propagated by the nodes in the converged network.

Typical examples of user data are shown in that include medical content financial information location presence personal content commercial content environment information and behaviors. User data will be the fuel of the converged network. A continuously flowing exchange of user data will drive ever increasing value added service offerings and relationships. In the emerging environment of a converging network the line between the end user and the user data will become increasingly difficult to determine as end users become ever more intimately associated with a catalog of behaviors and actions in the digital world. In the converged network it might be said that the end user is the user data.

The inventors have recognized that the need to maintain a continuous connection with the converged network has significant implications on end user privacy and security. In current non converged networks where the average end user is connected for only a small period of the time and PAN LAN interactions are limited the problems of spam pop ups virus attacks incessant advertising and a general feeling of digital vulnerability are all too familiar. In the converged network the end user will be connected continuously and on going interactions at the PAN LAN and WAN levels will be commonplace. This coupled with the inexorable shift to all digital media for user data will leave end user s exposed to a massive escalation of privacy and security problems.

The inventers have recognized privacy and security problems that can be characterized in three metaphors information overload Big Brother and the Kafka Nightmare . In the first case the end user is overwhelmed with data and content. In the second case the end user becomes disenchanted with the loss of personal privacy control. The third case refers to a privacy metaphor established by Franz Kafka in his seminal novel The Trial in which an end user is persecuted for a crime that he has no knowledge of. The analogy in the information age relates to the misuse deliberately or accidentally of user data resulting in some negative action that the End User only becomes aware of after the fact.

Under Big Brother the challenge is to control how User Data is used in the cyberworld. However under the Kafka nightmare the challenge is providing the end user with controls when their user data is misused or abused in the cyberworld.

The success of the Converged Network may well depend on how well these problems are addressed. The inventors have recognized that current privacy and security technologies are limited in their ability to provide the necessary safeguards and controls for the protection of the User Data in all the diversity of communication schema in a Converged Network. A User Data problem is thus presented as follows.

Privacy and security is expensive. In the non converged network current methods already place a heavy burden on the processing capabilities of the system elements. For example the total processing requirements for software implementations of SSL executing on an iPAQ handset i.e. 2325 MIPS Strong ARM processor was shown to be around 651.3 MIPS at a link speed of 10 Mbps. A Palm III X handset requires 3.4 minutes to perform 512 bit RSA generation 7 seconds to perform digital signature generation and can perform single DES encryption at only 13 kbps even if the CPU is completely dedicated to security processing.

The nodes in the converged network will be diverse e.g. a PDA a consumer electronic a passport and enabled with significantly higher throughput capabilities than are common today. Given the characteristics of the emerging environment already described it may be anticipated that the requirements on privacy and security technologies will increase e.g. more powerful encryption stronger authentication and better data mining . Privacy and security technologies will need to offer more flexible solutions to address all the diversity requirements of the converged network while still satisfying increasingly stringent requirements.

Current privacy and security technologies provide discrete protections safeguards for user data in the non converged network. They are discrete insofar as they are either on or off. A link is encrypted e.g. IPsec or it is not. A node passes authentication e.g. WEP or fails there is trust e.g. WS Trust or rejection. In current technologies there is little or no modulation of said technology with the context of the communications schema. For example the trust levels applied to an end user a node or an element of user data do not vary based upon the instantaneous variables of the schema. In the converged network communications will be continuous and context sensitive. The applications driving privacy and security technologies will need to be smarter to provide relevant solutions in this environment.

Current technology provides little or no controls to the end user regarding the secondary usage of user data after an application in an original context e.g. a credit card purchase . The end user must defer in large part to faith that their digital media will be handled with honesty and integrity. In the non converged network where currently the transition to an all digital media is in its early stages problems associated with behaviors like identity theft are increasing. In the all digital media emerging environment of the converged network these problems will become increasingly pervasive given the increasing importance of user data as the essential fuel of the system. The privacy and security technologies of the converged network will need to provide adequate controls to the end user to guarantee their acceptance of the emerging environment.

To address these concerns the inventors have recognized that quantitative definitions of privacy and security are required to be of value in terms of a service description. Such formal definition can be derived from the three metaphors described above and the converged network characteristic that an end user is defined by the end user s data. With these perspectives considered the inventors have recognized a need for privacy to be reduced to a quantitative definition built around user data and the relationships between the end user and a converged network.

The present invention is related to privacy services PSs for use in protection of user data transferred in a converged wireless network. The PS may be incorporated in a user device or may be implemented as a separate component which is configured for communicating with a user device to report and receive user input related to the privacy of user data and related privacy policy.

The PS preferably implements a privacy policy though a plurality of service elements which relate to different aspects of user data. The service elements preferably include some or all of an identity element a trust element a rights element and a security element.

The identity element preferably associates an identity or a user originator owner with the user data which may preferably include a number of user defined identities as well as an anonymous identity. The identity element may also associate an identity of intended or actual recipients with the user data.

The trust element preferably associates a degree of reliability and or quality to the user data. As with the other elements this attribute may change based on how where and when the user data is communicated.

The rights element preferably defines a set of rights such a usage rights from a list of established or user defined rights. For example whether data is to be read only editable available for a specific time period or any other type of right or restriction one may wish it associate with user data.

The security element preferably defines access and communication attributes such as whether the user data is password protected or a level of encryption required for communicating the data to another node.

Preferably a PS extracts and measures metrics for each type of service element of in connection with the communication of user data from one node to another. The PS performs its function by comparing received service element metrics with a default or user defined privacy policy that adjusts the various service elements in response to the received metrics. A privacy policy is also preferably based on one or more particular factors relating to the communication including the Application Context and Time of the communication.

Generally the purpose of the communication of user data preferably forms the Application which a privacy policy associates with user data. For example pricing information could be associated for access only in connection with communications having the purpose of a sale of specific goods or services. Medical data may be restricted to medical related applications.

A variety of communication attributes are preferably used to define a Context of the communication. A Context may be any measurable attribute or combination of attributes of a user data communication that describes a circumstance of the user data communication that is unique or at least differentiable. Typical examples of Context include but are not limited to Location Presence Behavior Environment Proximity to other entities current roles of the communicating parties the transport technology in use the reputation of the third party Past history or Knowledge of previous communications and regulation in effect.

The Time element of a communication may include a range of time when user data may be available or unavailable. This may be different depending upon the service elements. For example where the metrics indicate the communication of data is of the highest trust value the privacy policy may permit access irrespective of the time of the communication. On the other hand where a lower value trust metric is associated with the communication the data communication may for example be permitted only during a specified time period such as user defined business hours.

In one embodiment the PS provides controls that indicate when user data is misappropriated as a result of an infringement of a user defined privacy policy. Further the PS preferably provides a means to audit and trace deviations from the privacy policy for the purpose of repudiation or future defense of security threats.

Preferably the PS is configured to provide a composite of the following three controls over User Data 

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description and accompanying drawings.

When referred to hereafter the terminology wireless transmit receive unit WTRU includes but is not limited to a user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a computer or any other type of user device capable of operating in a wireless environment. When referred to hereafter the terminology base station includes but is not limited to a Node B a site controller an access point AP or any other type of interfacing device capable of operating in a wireless environment.

Referring to a privacy service PS system is illustrated that defines a service solution for the above referenced user data problem and provides a privacy and security technology solution for a user of a converged network. The PS system provides a PS to protect the User Data generated by an End User. The PS further serves to provide controls to the End User over the User Data that is received. In the PS system User Data is treated as a dynamic entity with associated policies. The PS is preferably configured to serve to enforce policies established or adopted by the End User with due consideration to application context and time throughout the user data s lifespan i.e. from creation to deletion in the converged network.

Referring to a PS node is used to communicate with other nodes in the converged network via an interface through which User Data flows. Where the interface is via a wireless medium the PS node is configured as a WTRU. Each PS node includes a communication component and a PS component . The communication component is configured to provide the communication connectivity with the converged network . A preferred protocol stack configuration for the communication component is illustrated in line with a classic Open Systems Interconnection OSI model representation. The PS component is configured to control the communication component to allow the user to control the privacy secrecy of each data transmission. Preferably PS node implementations include configuring the PS component to control the privacy and secrecy of User Data processed in one or more layers of data processing configuration of the communication component using Unified Trust Rights Identity Privacy and Security UNITRIPS parameters. Where the parameters of Trust Rights Identity and Security are used to control a Privacy policy implemented by the PS the PS node is referred to as a UNITRIPS node.

An identity element is preferably the association of tangible elements to a node pertaining to an end user in order to discern uniquely the node and possibly the end user in a given application context and time. Three example types of identity include assumed identity assigned identity and abstracted identity.

Assumed identities can be both timeless and unconditional. They preferably embody the true personal digital identity of the WTRU and are owned and controlled entirely by the end user for their sole benefit.

Assigned identities are preferably both conditional and temporary in their issuance to the end user. Typically these identities are assigned or issued in the context of a relationship or communication schema. For example nearly every identity in a work environment is an assigned identity e.g. job title cell phone number air miles number social security number etc .

Abstract identities describe some abstraction of an identity either applied by the end user or by a third party on behalf of an end user. This abstraction might be based upon demographics behaviors etc. A frequent buyer or one time customer assignments are examples of identity abstractions.

The trust element preferably measures the exposition of user data between nodes with some degree of confidence that the involved parties a WTRU and targets will adhere to certain rules. Typically the greater the trust element the more likely a WTRU will assume that a data transmission will not be misused by the target. With a high degree of trust in the communication the targets believe that there is some degree of quality associated with the communication schema obtained.

The rights element preferably defines a set of rights such a usage rights from a list of established or user defined rights. For example whether data is to be read only editable available for a specific time period or any other type of right or restriction one may wish it associate with user data.

The security element is a measure of the process of providing controlled access to the data message while in transit between nodes and while in storage at a node . A secure communication between two nodes is preferably accomplished by a gestalt of six logical components confidentiality integrity non repudiation authentication authorization and availability.

The time application and context signals are preferably not directly factored into the metrics however the PS preferably takes into account these elements in determining the metric. Embodiments of the PS whether local or remote are preferably provided with signals indicating the specific factors of application context and time in relation to a particular piece of user data. The privacy is correlated to these factors. For example sending a piece of user data unencrypted may not be privacy impacting in a particular context e.g. location. The same may be true in relation to a particular application e.g. name date of birth data shared within a family social network application or at a particular time or time elapsed e.g. something needed to be kept private at one time may not need to remain private three months later.

The PS may be configured to apply a weighting scheme to each of the service elements based on the time application and context. A weighting scheme is a means of tuning aspects of the PS to reflect particular time application and contexts. Weighting schemes are preferably defined in the user determined policy and may be different for each data transmission.

The time factor may be measured as either 1 instantaneous time e.g. time of day date etc or 2 elapsed time e.g. 1 week 5 years etc. . The elapsed time relates to the lifetime of user data in the system. From a conceptual privacy perspective elapsed time is important because what is private today may not be private a week or a month from now.

The application factor is defined as the reason or motivation for the data transmission e.g. communication between a seller and a buyer or the purpose of sending or receiving a data transmission. Other examples include end user interfacing layer 7 or equivalent software embodiments such as e mail in a node used to facilitate the application.

The context factor is any measurable attribute or grouping thereof of a data transmission that describes a circumstance of the data transmission that is unique or at least differentiable. Typical examples of context will include but are not limited to location presence behavior environment proximity to other entities current roles of the communicating parties the transport technology in use the reputation of the third party past history or knowledge of previous communications and regulation in effect.

The user determined policy is a statement that outlines a constraint a restriction a limitation or a goal state relating to the handling of user data in a data transmission where user data is any digital information or content that is created either voluntarily or involuntarily by an end user or on behalf of an end user via a node in the converged network . The policy may also extend to include a defintion of actions to be carried out in the event where the policy is violated. An example of this is the controls which could be defined by the policy.

The term controls is used here to describe any action that may be performed by a service element or by an end user possibly as a result of a policy infringement or a metric report that results in some observable internal or external state change executed for the purpose of addressing said event.

The controls and the policy may be adjusted or set using a service interface. A service interface is a point of interaction that allows the end user to interact with the PS in a node. This interaction may be for the purposes of a defining interrogating and modifying a policy b the interrogation of a metric c application of controls possibly in response to a metric. The service interface may allow the end user to interact with the PS on a real time and or a non real time basis. This interaction may be realized in a passive e.g. pre configured or proactive manner. Where the PS is embodied in an End User Node direct real time communication is readily available. However where the PS of an End User is embodied in a network node or otherwise remote component real time communication may be available dependent upon the type of communication link between the End User and the PS.

The associated elements and independent elements are preferably embodied as individual or combined software functionality that can run independently or together. When the associated and independent services are configured to operate together the result is a Privacy manifold . In the privacy manifold the metrics produced by each component are combined to yield an instantaneous statement or metric on the user data current privacy level. In a fully embodied converged network the end user is likely to be constantly producing and consuming information. At the same time user data that may be completely unrelated or independent of an immediate or associated communication of the same end user may be propagated and manipulated by other parties or between other nodes. Therefore privacy is measurable both on an instantaneous basis as well as over a selected period of time. If measured over a period of time privacy can be based on all of the actions a user makes on all user data. This includes decisions a user makes at first propagation e.g. what level of encryption you chose to apply and decisions other users make at future propagations e.g. what level of encryption other users choose to apply when subsequently propagating information relating to the first user.

The control of any type of data communication between two or more nodes including the manipulation of data at a node can be denominated as a communication schema. illustrates various forms a communication schema with respect to User Data subject to PS control in terms of three basic types an original communication a secondary communication and a terminating communication . An end user shown in may be a source or a target of user data which is the subject of the communication schema . In the illustration of the original communication sends user data from Node as a source node to Node which receives the user data as a target node. The PS includes control of the data manipulation at Node with respect to the original communication .

The secondary communication illustrates a subsequent sending of the User Data received from the End User by Node to a Node N as a secondary or subsequent target node for manipulation or simply for propagation in the converged network. The secondary communication is preferably sanctioned by the PS as communicated in the original communication and includes PS control directed to Node N with respect to the User Data .

A terminating communication occurs when User Data is sent to the End User s node. The terminating communication illustrates user data sent from Node to Node as Target of End User . The PS preferably controls the reception of such User Data by the End User s node. As illustrated in the PS preferably controls the communication schema using the application network and link level components of these communications.

During the course of the originating or terminating communication schema between the end user node and target node signals and measurements are preferably extracted by an Associated Service of the PS .

The signals are preferably used to identify the elements of instantaneous Application Context and Time of the communication schema. Measurements preferably include identity trust rights and security measurements that are then used to identify instantaneous attributes associated with the elements of identity trust rights and security for the Associated Service of the PS . Together the signal attributes in connection with the respective measurements are preferably used to define the instantaneous conditions associated with the communication schema that is with a user defined policy with respect to the associated identity trust rights and security elements. The policy then adjusts the associated identity trust rights and security elements for the user data in terms of the communication schema in question. In addition to the aforementioned attributes and a weighting scheme may be employed.

Preferably the difference between the measured conditions of the service element and the policy is defined in a metric generated by the PS . The policy preferably defines the metrics produced and how often. The metrics generated by the PS may automatically invoke an associated control action . Alternatively a user may invoke an associated control action in response to an observed metric. This is shown in as policy controls and end user controls respectively. The associated controls as applied serve to modulate some aspect of the local data transmission in order to better align instantaneous conditions with the policy requirements. This control is preferably related to associating attributes and controls with the transmitted user data in the case of an originating communication and to associating attributes and controls with the received user data in the case of a terminating communication.

During the course of the secondary communication signals and measurements are preferably extracted by an Associated Service of the PS on behalf of the End User of interest . As with the local Associated Service the PS uses the signal attributes and measurements to make a comparison with the policy previously established for the User Data. The PS then preferably at a minimum generates a report that reflects the signal and measurement information which is made available to the End User of interest either directly or via some proxy node e.g. a privacy server as indicated by . If in view of the signal and measurement information a policy pertaining to the User Data available from the PS or embedded in the originally received user data dictates a change in control of one or more Associated service elements then associated controls are preferably applied automatically via policy control . Optionally a metric may be made available to the remote End User to control some element of the PS in response to a received metric . The associated control then operates to control the communication or attributes associated with the User Data as communicated to the End User .

Preferably the associated service of the PS uses the associated identity control AIC service element to provide a performance metric AIC that describes the instantaneous identity level applied in the communications schema. This metric is preferably defined such that any deviation AIC from the policy AIC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified. Metrics generated by the associated identity control service element e.g. AIC may also be used to control or effect changes to one or more of the other component service elements. For example the determination of an anonymous identity classification by the associated identity control may result in associated security control applying an increased level of encryption on a particular link.

In receiving User Data the PS preferably uses the associated identity service element to provide the End User with dynamic control over the identity exposed for the purposes of receiving User Data within an instantaneous communication schema. For example in a scenario where User Data is being received over a radio link the AIC service element preferably provides the End User is configured to limit the exposure of the End User s identity per the End User s policy definition. The End User s policy preferably includes different identities or levels of identity for different instantaneous Application Context or Time. The AIC service element preferably determines the Application Context or Time from the signal associated with a communication schema to recommend or allow only communication of User data and associated information in conformance with the associated policy definition.

An example of a communication schema for an Application related to the purchase and sale of goods or services is illustrated in . In this example the AIC service element of the PS serving End User provides the identity of a Buyer during the communication. The AIC service element of the PS serving End User provides the identity of a Seller during the communication. With the identities in place User Data of End User such as selling price and or quantity or quality attributes of the subject sale is then communicated to End User . Similarly User Data of End User such as offering price and use requirements can also be communicated to End User .

In the example of an End User PS Node has established a level of trust equal to a in association with a particular communication scheme . This trust metric is preferably used to assist in the configuration of the complementary component services for Identity Rights and Security. Subsequently such as by the ATC determining a Context change due to a mobility event a new level of trust equal to b is established and component services preferably use this newly established trust level in controlling their respective User Data controls and attributes. In response to a further event such as a Context change due to an application event the ATC determines no change in trust level is needed. However it may still be necessary to reconfigure the other component services in response to the change independent of the maintenance of the same trust level.

The Associated service of the PS preferably uses the associated trust control service element to provide metrics ATC ATC that describe the instantaneous level of trust in a particular communication schema. These metrics are preferably defined such that any deviation ATC ATC from the End User s policy ATC ATC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

As reflected in metrics generated using the ATC service element e.g. ATC may result in changes to one or more of the other component service elements . For example the determination of a highly trusted communication schema by associated trust control may result in associated security control applying a reduced level of ciphering on a particular link. The metric is preferably implemented in continuous discrete alphabet or key based schemas. Deviation is preferably derived based on a distance scheme such as Euclidean or Hamming based schemes.

In the functionality of an ARC service element with respect to a communication schema involving an End User PS Node is illustrated progressing through three stages and with respect to different User Data communications generally indicated by communication schema . In an initial stage the rights associated with a particular user data element of interest are defined by a set of rights a b c d with respect to User Data based on the End User s Policy and a first communication. Subsequently with respect to another communication with a different node the ARC service element determine a Context change such as via a mobility event in the further communication and implements a reduced set of rights b c with respect to User Data in accordance with the End User s policy. Another stage additional data User Data becomes available in connection with a second further communication. Such an agglomeration of data can be used as a further Context factor used by the ARC element service to select a new set of rights z in accordance with the End User s Policy to be applied to the combined User Data the second further communication of User Data.

The sender ARC service element preferably provides a metric ARC that describes the instantaneous rights level applied in the respective communication. This metric is preferably defined such that any deviation ARC from the policy ARC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

Metrics generated by the ARC service element e.g. ARC may also be used to result in changes to one or more of the other component service elements. For example the determination of a need to provide a higher level of rights than desired per the policy definition by associated rights control may result in associated identity control service applying an anonymous identifier in the present or a future communication schema.

In connection with receiving user Data the ARC service element preferably provides the End User being served with a continuous metric that describes the instantaneous rights level associated with a communications schema. For example in a scenario where user data is being received over a radio link this service element provides the end user with means to determine the level of rights allowed recommended throughout the communications schema per the End User s policy. The policy definitions may include different rights level requirements for different instantaneous Application Context or Time attributes of the communication schema in which the User Data is communicated. The ARC service element is preferably configured to determine the Application Context or Time from the signal associated with a communication schema to recommend or allow only rights in conformance with the associated End User policy.

The receiver ARC service element preferably provides a metric ARC that describes the instantaneous level of rights allowed in a particular communications schema. This metric is preferably defined such that any deviation ARC from the policy ARC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

Metrics generated by the ARC receiver service element e.g. ARC may be used to change one or more of the other component service elements. For example the determination of a high allowed rights level in a particular communications schema by the ARC service element may be used by the associated trust control to white list a particular communication schema at a relatively high trust level. The ARC metric is preferably implemented in continuous discrete alphabet or key based schemas. Deviation is preferably derived based on a distance scheme such as Euclidean or Hamming based scheme.

The functionality of an associated security control ASC service element is introduced earlier with respect to ASC . The ASC service element is preferably defined in terms of sending and receiving of User Data by an End User. The ASC service element preferably provides an End User being served with a metric that describes the instantaneous security level associated with both sending and receiving User Data communications schema. For example in a scenario where User Data is sent or received over a radio link the ASC service element is preferably configured to ensure that an appropriate level of security such as encryption level site key confirmation password protection is established and maintained throughout the communications schema per the End User s policy definition. The End User s policy may include different security or levels of security for different instantaneous Application Context or Time attributes of a communication schema. The ASC sender and receiver service element is preferably configured to determine the Application Context or Time from the signal associated with a communication schema in order to apply the instantaneous best choice to meet the policy communication schema requirements.

The ASC sender and receiver service element preferably provides metrics ASC ASC that describe the instantaneous level of security in a particular communications schema. These metrics are preferably defined such that any deviation ASC ASC from the policy ASC ASC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

Metrics generated by the ASC service element e.g. ASC may result in changes to one or more of the other component service elements. For example the determination of a limited security capability in a particular communication schema by the ASC service element may be used by the associated rights control to limit the rights to User Data being sent.

The ASC metrics are preferably implemented in a continuous discrete alphabet and or key based schemas. Deviation is preferably derived based on a distance scheme such as an Euclidean or Hamming based scheme.

An Independent Service for a preferred PS such as illustrated in preferably is configured to provide specialized services to an End User vis a vis the End User s User Data with respect to both source i.e. sending and sink i.e. receiving end users in secondary communications SCs of the User Data. The independent service preferably is configured to provide the End user with continued control over the End User s User Data outside of the original and terminal communication context. For example in a scenario where User Data is stored in an arbitrary database outside the End User s immediate scope of influence the Independent Service aspect of the PS provides the End User with the means to ensure that the End User s User Data remains protected and safeguarded per the End User s policy definition. This control is preferably minimally manifested by a metric that describes actions or events relating to the End User s User Data. The Independent service is preferably configured to perform protection and safeguarding actions outside of the End User s immediate scope of influence such as the removal of a misused item of user data from an offending database.

The independent service preferably provides the End User with continuous metrics describing the attributes of the End User s User Data as received by a sink end user. The independent service metrics preferably describe the quality ownership allowed use e.g. when where credibility etc. of the End User s User Data. These metrics may directly or indirectly influence subsequent use of the End User s User Data by the sink end user. The independent service may also be configured to perform protection and safeguarding actions inside or outside of the End User s immediate scope of influence such as blacklisting a specific resource.

Metrics generated by an independent service element of a PS may result in changes to the behavior of the associated service element of the PS and vice versa. For example the blacklisting of a specific resource by the independent service may result in the associated service raising the privacy and security technology requirements in a future transaction or the avoidance of a communication schema altogether.

An independent service of a PS is preferably defined by four functional service elements independent identity control independent trust control independent rights control and independent security control. Independent service operation from the perspective of an End User being served by the PS is described more fully in terms of two normative scenarios illustrated in in connection with which preferred basic operational requirements of the service in local and remote contexts are described from the perspective of the End User of interest being served by the PS.

The contents of these reports are preferably processed in a manner corresponding to the processing of the signals are preferably used to identify the elements of instantaneous Application Context and Time of an originating or terminal communication and identity trust rights and security measurements that are then used to identify instantaneous attributes associated with the elements of identity trust rights and security for the Associated Service of the PS as discussed in connection with .

Together the contents of the A C T and i t r s reports are preferably used to define the instantaneous conditions associated with the communication schema with a user defined policy with respect to independent identity trust rights and security elements. The policy then adjusts the independent identity trust rights and security elements for the User Data in terms of the communication schema in question via the sending of an independent control . In connection with the policy generation of the independent control a weighting scheme may be employed.

Preferably the difference between the reported conditions of the service element and the policy is defined in a metric generated by the PS . The policy preferably defines the metrics produced and how often. The metrics generated by the PS may automatically invoke an independent control action . Alternatively the End User may invoke an independent control action in response to an observed metric reported by the PS . This is shown in as policy control and end user control respectively. The independent controls as applied serve to modulate some aspect of the data transfer in the secondary communication in order to better align instantaneous conditions with the policy requirements.

This indication may pertain to an instantaneous communication schema or may relate to a behavior required in a future communication schema that involves user data owned by or pertaining to the End User of interest . Upon receipt of this indication the PS preferably updates the policy pertaining to the User data which may optionally result in an indication sent to the receiving End User . In such case the remote End User may then invoke an associated control action not shown in as discussed in connection with .

The IIC service element may include different identities preferably with the ability to include identities different from the original communication for different secondary communications based on application context and time factors. The IIC service element preferably uses application context and time factors to apply the End User s policy.

The IIC service element preferably provides a metric IIC that describes the performance of the identity controls applied in a secondary communication schema. This metric is preferably defined such that any deviation IIC from the policy IIC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

Metrics generated by this IIC service element e.g. IIC may be used by one or more of the other component service elements to change or take specific mitigation actions. For example repeated identity application violations could trigger a security action to result in the removal of the user data from the third party Node. In another example the IIC metric can be used by an independent trust control to black list a particular communication schema.

The IIC metrics are preferably implemented in a continuous discrete alphabet and or key based scheme. Deviation is preferably derived based on a distance scheme such as an Euclidean or Hamming based scheme.

When the arbitrary Node conducts a secondary communication for the purposes of sending the User Data to another node the ITC may for example assess the trust level of the proposed communication schema to be less than before trust

Subsequently the arbitrary node may undergo a context change e.g. a mobility event occurs . In the provided example upon attempting to execute a secondary communication involving the User Data where the trust metric is below that originally set trust

The ITC service element preferably provides a metric ITC that describes the performance of trust controls applied in a secondary communications schema. Such metric is preferably defined such that any deviation ITC from the policy ITC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

Metrics generated by the ITC service element e.g. ITC may result in be used by one or more of the other component service elements to make changes or specific risk mitigation actions. For example repeated trust violations may result in an independent rights control service modifying the rights associated with the User Data in the third party Node.

The ITC metrics are preferably implemented in a continuous discrete alphabet and or key based scheme. Deviation is preferably derived based on a distance scheme such as an Euclidean or Hamming based scheme.

For example in a scenario where user data is stored in an arbitrary Node outside the end user s immediate scope of influence the IRC service element is preferably configured to ensure that End User s User Data rights remain in force per the End User s policy definition. This policy may include different rights including different sets of rights from the original communication for different Application Context and Time factors related to a secondary communication schema. The IRC service element is preferably configured to use the Application Context and Time factors attributable to a secondary communication schema to enforce the End User s policy definition.

The IRC service element preferably provides a metric IRC that describes the performance of rights controls applied in a secondary communications schema. This metric is preferably defined such that any deviation IRC from the policy IRC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

Metrics generated by this service element e.g. IRC may be used by one or more of the other component service elements to make changes or specific risk mitigation actions. For example repeated reports of rights violations e.g. usage or attempts of usage of user data in unwarranted locations by the IRC service element may result in the independent trust control black listing a particular node.

The IRC metrics are preferably implemented in a continuous discrete alphabet and or key based scheme. Deviation is preferably derived based on a distance scheme such as an Euclidean or Hamming based scheme.

In a further Stage an example of the interaction between the IIC IRC and ISC elements is provided. In this case the destination of the user data does not make a change of nodes but the location of the arbitrary Node containing the user data has changed. This location change is detected by the IIC service entity. Subsequently the IRC limits the rights associated with the User Data to rights set b as a result in a change in the IIC metric which may have also effected an ISC metric. As shown in this example the IRC service also includes an indication in the rights that reciprocity to the source is required in order to use the User Data. The ISC service then preferably prevents access to the User Data until the reciprocity requirements are met.

The independent service control service element introduced earlier with respect to ISC is preferably defined from the perspective of sending source and receiving sink end users of a secondary communication. The ITC service element preferably provides an End User with continued control over the security measures applied to the End User s User Data after an original communication. For example in a scenario where User Data is stored in an arbitrary node outside the End User s immediate scope of influence the ISC service element is preferably configured to ensure that the End User s User Data is a stored and manipulated in a node and b proliferated by a node in accordance with the End User s policy. This policy definition may include different security mechanisms including different security mechanisms from those used with the original communication for different Application Context and Time factors of a secondary communication schema. The ISC service element is preferably configured to use the Application Context and Time factors attributable to a communication schema to enforce the End User s policy definition.

The ISC service element preferably provides a metric isc that describes the security controls applied in a secondary node and communications schema. Such metric is preferably defined such that any deviation ISC from the policy ISC can be quantitatively or qualitatively identified.

Metrics generated by this service element e.g. ISC may be used by one or more of the other component service elements to make changes or specific risk mitigation actions. For example detection of repeated transmissions of User Data within a given time period may result in the generation of a security level metric change that in turn is used by the IRC element service to modify the rights associated with one or more elements of User Data.

The ISC metrics are preferably implemented in a continuous discrete alphabet and or key based scheme. Deviation is preferably derived based on a distance scheme such as an Euclidean or Hamming based scheme.

A preferred PS as illustrated in supports the generation of a privacy manifold having the full complement of independent and associated service elements as described above. Real privacy may also be described qualitatively as a function of how well an End User protects itself as well as how well others do the same. In connection with the PS a quantitative measure of the former is provided by locally generated associated metrics. The latter is provided by the independent metrics generated by one or more remote Nodes based on the policies established via the PS by the End User. Together this stream of metrics used by the PS defines a manifold of information describing the real privacy experienced by the End User.

One can look at the stream of metrics generated by the PS as a discrete time series and in the case of multiple sources a multidimensional time series or set of time series. A traditional signal processing techniques of classification filtering transformation and abstracted representation e.g. a sine wave and thus transformation a a a a a . . . into a Asin wts.n can advantageously be applied to the time series of metrics in order to provide a more scalable manipulation of the User Data by the PS i.e. a privacy manifold metric.

The privacy manifold metric is a special form of metric that the PS is preferably configured to generate. The privacy manifold metric is preferably a compound or manifold of metrics generated as a result of all the of the functional service elements that are active in a particular instant. Such a metric preferably provides an instantaneous and historical measure of real privacy to the End User.

The privacy manifold metric is realized as a compound of the metrics received and is continuously updated throughout the lifetime of the PS operation. The PS is preferably configured to permit the End User to request the privacy manifold metric information as whole. In this case the privacy manifold metric describes the real privacy pertaining to all of the End User s User Data and all communication schema logged in the system with respect thereto. Additionally the PS is preferably configured to permit the End User to request refinements of the privacy manifold metric such as that associated with a single element or specific group of User Data. Additionally the PS is preferably configured to permit the End User to request a more detailed review of the privacy manifold metric such as that describing the trustworthiness of a particular group of communication schema pertaining to a particular group of User Data.

Privacy manifold metric information can be used to an update to the End User s policy definition by the End User or an invocation of specific associated service or independent service action. Alternatively the PS may be configured to automatically trigger such updates to the policy definition that in turn may lead to specific associated services or independent service actions.

To the extent that an End User s policy privacy manifold metrics and or other metrics are made available to another End User such data may be used by the other End User s PS to establish or modify its own policies or for other applications.

By way of example the present invention may be implemented in any of the following ways. An application programming interface API or a knowledge based system KBS could be configured between a PS virtual machine and any manifestation of a communications function in a Node. An API is configured between a PS entity e.g. a virtual machine and any manifestation of a database or KBS functionality in a Node. A service interface is realized via some means allowing the end user access to the PS virtual machine and functionality. The present invention may include an extension of a trusted computing group TPG trusted platform module architecture to include a PS virtual machine or any implementation of trusted computing functionality wherein such a virtual machine is embedded. An extension of a JAVA sandbox may be configured to include such a virtual machine. A visual or audible representation of the PS level on a Node may be implemented. An interface may be applied between the PS virtual machine and the operating system implemented e.g. OS Traps etc in support of the PS functionality.

Another implementation of the present invention includes an organization of a combination or gestalt of service elements into a downloadable verifiable PS virtual machine. Alternatively a system may provide a dynamic privacy policy capability where the dynamics are provided either with or without end user intervention. A PS with dynamic policy can be provided as an application rather than as a fixed setting. A system may be implemented such that an indication to the end user prompts the end user to interact with the PS functionality. A system may be implemented that utilizes the battery life status of the physical device as input to decision regarding the instantaneous privacy policy to be applied.

The End User node as described above may be implemented as a wireless transmit receive unit WTRU which includes but is not limited to a user equipment mobile station mesh node fixed or mobile subscriber unit access point pager or any other type of device capable of operating in a wireless environment.

Although the features and elements of the present invention are described in the preferred embodiments in particular combinations each feature or element can be used alone without the other features and elements of the preferred embodiments or in various combinations with or without other features and elements of the present invention. The methods or flow charts provided in the present invention may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware tangibly embodied in a computer readable storage medium for execution by a general purpose computer or a processor. Examples of computer readable storage mediums include a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs .

Suitable processors include by way of example a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC and or a state machine.

A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a wireless transmit receive unit WTRU user equipment UE terminal base station radio network controller RNC or any host computer. The WTRU may be used in conjunction with modules implemented in hardware and or software such as a camera a video camera module a videophone a speakerphone a vibration device a speaker a microphone a television transceiver a hands free headset a keyboard a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a liquid crystal display LCD display unit an organic light emitting diode OLED display unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and or any wireless local area network WLAN module.

