---

title: Business case evaluation system and methods thereof
abstract: A system and method to offer a one or more experiences using various layers to at least one customer is disclosed. The method includes user experience layer having a first plurality of components owned by at least one service provider to evaluate a plurality of experimental changes of the at least one customer. The method further includes user service layer having a second plurality of components owned by the at least one service provider to offer a first plurality of services for the at least one customer. The method further includes an adaptation layer, a network service layer, a protocol layer and a platform layer having one or more components to provide one or more functionalities. Additionally, the method further includes a monitoring and control layer with one or more components to build management information across the one or more layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412561&OS=08412561&RS=08412561
owner: Infosys Technologies, Ltd.
number: 08412561
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20070730
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Patent Application Serial No. 1424 CHE 2006 of SATHYAN et al. entitled BUSINESS CASE EVALUATION SYSTEM AND METHODS THEREOF filed Aug. 9 2006 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present technique relates generally to an architecture reference model for wireless network designs. In particular the present technique may be the evaluation of the service space and the network space as one full flow that may be required to bring out business focused technology development.

Network design reference models such as I centric and WWRF WSI have service deployers as a point of focus that enables them to evaluate market penetration as well as other user related capabilities of applications or services. However the said reference models do not focus on the evaluation of an end to end flow from services to network capabilities. Furthermore the said reference models evaluation techniques may have been able to satisfy past requirements primarily due clearly defined roles like network providers providing network elements service providers determine the services offered integrators determine the implementation of service to network etc.

Moreover as and when the service deployers have the network capability to enable particular application functionality the right products may not be readily available. Furthermore the network developers make development in their network without having an end to end view available resulting in products with sub optimal market fit. As a result profitability of the network developers as well as rapid service development may be affected.

Accordingly there is a need for a technique that evaluates user space and network space as one full flow that may be required to bring out business focused technology development. However converged networks may be set to change dramatically with a multitude of service providers content providers network providers and equipment providers having to rapidly conceptualize evaluate and integrate their service offerings. Furthermore due to increasing competition there may be additional pressure to deliver the right product or service on time and every time.

The above and other needs are addressed by the present invention which provides for example a method and system for modeling and designing a network functionality and a tangible computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions for modeling and designing a network functionality.

In one embodiment of the present technique a method for modeling and designing a network functionality is disclosed. The method identifies a design module to provide a plurality of features to validate an end to end business case. The method further identifies a current layer in a chromatographic model wherein the design module fits in a set of preceding layers or in a set of succeeding layers or combination thereof. The method further includes determining the set of preceding layers and the set of succeeding layers using the current layer. The method continues identifying a set of components in the set of preceding layers and the set of succeeding layers. The method continues extracting a first set of inputs for the end to end business case to identify value of the set of components in the set of preceding layers. Furthermore the method continues extracting a second set of inputs for the end to end business case to identify cost of the set of components in the set of succeeding layers and the method extracts a third set of inputs for the end to end business case to identify cost and value of the set of components in the current layer. The method further includes evaluating the end to end business case for accepting or rejecting the design module.

In another embodiment of the present technique a system for modeling and designing a network functionality is disclosed. The system includes a design module adapted to identify and provide a plurality of features to validate an end to end business case. The system further includes a set of components adapted to be identified in a set of preceding layers and a set of succeeding layers. The system further includes a first set of inputs adapted to be extracted for an end to end business case to identify value of the set of components in the set of preceding layers. The system includes a second set of inputs adapted to be extracted for the end to end business case to identify cost of the set of components in the set of succeeding layers. Furthermore the system includes a third set of inputs adapted to be extracted for the end to end business case to identify cost and value of the set of components in the current layer.

In yet another embodiment of the present technique a tangible computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions for modeling and designing a network functionality is disclosed. The computer readable medium includes a program code adapted for identifying a design module to provide a plurality of features to validate an end to end business case. The computer readable medium further includes a program code adapted for identifying a current layer in a chromatographic model wherein the design module fits in a set of preceding layers or in a set of succeeding layers or combination thereof. The computer readable medium further includes a program code adapted for determining the set of preceding layers and the set of succeeding layers using the current layer. The computer readable medium further includes a program code adapted for identifying a set of components in the set of preceding layers and the set of succeeding layers. The computer readable medium further includes a program code adapted for extracting a first set of inputs for the end to end business case to identify value of the set of components in the set of preceding layers. The computer readable medium further includes a program code adapted for extracting a second set of inputs for the end to end business case to identify cost of the set of components in the set of succeeding layers. The computer readable medium further includes a program code adapted for extracting a third set of inputs for the end to end business case to identify cost and value of the set of components in the current layer. Furthermore the computer readable medium further includes a program code adapted for evaluating the end to end business case for accepting or rejecting the design module.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. The present invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views and more particularly to thereof which will be used to illustrate a method and system for modeling and designing a network functionality according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention.

The following description is full and informative description of the best method and system presently contemplated for carrying out the present invention which is known to the inventors at the time of filing the patent application. Of course many modifications and adaptations will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant arts in view of the following description in view of the accompanying drawings and the appended claims. While the system and method described herein are provided with a certain degree of specificity the present technique may be implemented with either greater or lesser specificity depending on the needs of the user. Further some of the features of the present technique may be used to advantage without the corresponding use of other features described in the following paragraphs. As such the present description should be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the present technique and not in limitation thereof since the present technique is defined solely by the claims.

The present invention relates to an architecture reference model for wireless network designs. In particular the present technique may be the evaluation of the service space and the network space as one full flow that may be required to bring out business focused technology development.

As will be appreciated by people skilled in the art to best understand the present invention it is important to be familiar with the environment in which it is used and the basic terminologies. The design process is a series of steps followed by designers architects and some system designers. The typical stages of the design process includes design brief a statement of the task at hand analysis analysis of the current system research investigating similar products in the field or related topics specification detailed definitions of what exactly the product must do design presentation of solutions development continuation and improvement of one solution testing testing of the system implementation introducing the design into the environment evaluation evaluation of process and conclusion summary of process and future suggestions . Modeling may be an abstract representation of an object or system from a particular viewpoint. Designing may be a process of originating and developing a plan for a new object. Moreover designing normally requires considering aesthetic functional and many other aspects of an object which usually requires considerable research thought modeling iterative adjustment and re design. The network functionality may be a characteristic that causes a good or service to have a value to potential customer dependent on the number of customers already owning that good or using that service.

The method starts at step wherein the design module may be identified. The method continues at step wherein the layer in the chromatographic chromatography is used to determine the identity and concentration of components in a particular layer model where the design module may be suitably fit. By way of example in this case the model may be such as a network service or a platform enhancement. The method continues at step wherein the cost and values of the business case may be identified in the current layer. It should be noted that when step may be true the method at step may be executed else when the step may be false the method at step may be repeated. The method continues at step wherein the presence of the preceding layers may be determined. The method continues at step wherein the presence of the succeeding layers may be determined. It is to be observed that when the step is true the method continues with the step and when the step is false the method continues with the step . It is also to be observed that when the step is true the method continues with the step and when the step is false the method continues with the step . The method continues at step wherein the layers are incremented and may be the preceding layers for the current layer. The method continues at step wherein the layers are decremented and may be the succeeding layers for the current layer. In these cases the impact of the design module may be identified and the components required for implementation in each layer may be identified.

Furthermore the method continues at step wherein the value of the components may be identified for each layer. It is to be noted that at each layer inputs may be received that needs to be plugged into the end to end business case evaluation. The method continues at step wherein the value of the components may be identified for each layer. It is to be noted that at each layer inputs may be received that needs to be plugged into the end to end business case evaluation. The method continues at step the end to end business case may be evaluated. It should be noted that the spreading impact of the design module may be similar to the process of chromatography. Chromatography is a concept where the components filter themselves as they spread. In addition the design module may be anything from a generic service such as control of home appliances using wireless network or a protocol to support a new service in the wireless environments.

By way of examples the below section depicts specific use cases for the chromatographic design process. In addition the below section details the two use cases related to the wireless design concepts and also explains the process of using the chromatographic model to validate the case for the design concept. The below mentioned both cases explain the values added to the preceding layers and requirements in the succeeding layers which can be used to validate the end to end business case and then reject or accept the concept.

The first design module that may be mentioned may be a wireless video conferencing service. The features of the design module may be such as seamless video conferencing across mobile phones personal computers PCs and specialized video conferencing VC equipment. In this case customizable presentation layer based on device handling the service may be utilized. In addition capability to chat with other users as well as to share a common whiteboard.

In one embodiment to depict on functional description wireless video conferencing service WVCS may be a component in the user service layer explained below . In another embodiment in addition using the design process the value benefits of the component in the user experienced layer explained below may be identified. To be clear of the sample components that may be identified such as personal face to face communication remote education opportunities remote medical assistance cost effective business discussions or visual entertainment. Each of the said need may be evaluated individually to derive inputs for the end to end business case.

In another embodiment the requirements costs from the succeeding layers for implementing the said component may be identified. In another embodiment at the adaptation layer explained below a mediation component for translating present data based on the user device and the network may be needed. In another embodiment in the network service layer explained below components such as video or audio compression internet protocol IP streaming and presence services may be required. In another embodiment in the protocol or interoperability layer components such as cluster capability and H.323 protocol support may be required.

In yet another embodiment in the platform layer components such as high availability real time fault tolerant scalable multi card architecture may be required. In addition once the said components may be defined inputs on the costs associated may be extracted and fed into the end to end business case evaluation.

Furthermore the second design concept that may be mentioned below may be a low level network service enhancement. The features may be current wireless protocols MAP does not support delivery of the calling name CN as signaling information to the mobile. In addition the design concept may be to modify existing MAP SS7 to add the CN to the signaling data transmitted to the mobile. The term mobile application part MAP may be defined as a global system for mobile communications GSM protocol to provide an application layer for the various nodes in the core mobile network to communicate with each other in order to provide services to mobile phone users.

To depict on the functional description in one embodiment in the network service layer may be the wireless calling name WCNAM component maybe required. In another embodiment in the adaptation layer there may be no values. In addition a cost input may be considered for requirements. In another embodiment in the user service layer components such as named based call barring named based ring tones may be required. In another embodiment in the user experience layer components such as enhanced security against prank calls quicker recognition of caller may be required. In another embodiment at the lower layers in the protocol layer components such as update MAP CAMEL specs enable LIDB functionality backward compatibility to earlier MAP CAMEL specs may be required. In yet another embodiment in the platform layer there may be no additional component for a change may be identified for the requirements. In this case a similar exercise of input collation may be done from the said components and fed into the end to end business case evaluation. The term customized applications for mobile networks enhanced logic CAMEL may be defined as a set of GSM standards designed to work on a GSM core network. These standards allow an operator to define services over and above standard GSM services. The CAMEL architecture is based on intelligent network IN standards and uses the CAP protocol.

Furthermore the said layers may be segregated into first type user centric such as user experience and user service layers. In addition as a second type network centric the layers may be segregated such as network service protocol and platform layers. It is noted that as a rule of thumb most components in the network centric may be owned by the network provider and components in the user centric layers may be owned by the service or content providers. In addition the adaptation layer may contain components that mediate transform and facilitate operations between the user and the network centric layers. It is to be observed that one of the key terminologies that may be used in the model description is that of a design concept DC . In addition this is an abstraction to describe the feature service enhancement that may be the subject of evaluation using the model.

In one embodiment the user experience layer may be the outmost layer of the model and the components in this layer concern themselves with the experimental changes that a user may obtain with a specific design concept. Furthermore components in this layer may be required to describe in technology and network agnostic terms and may typically describe the emotional needs that may be satisfied or being attempted to be satisfied.

By way of examples components that fit into this layer may be security social interaction and control. Any of these may be utilized and expanded to enable further clarity. In addition wireless buddy finder application may be sought to be deployed to address the primary need of users to increase interaction vocally with friends . Hence from a business case perspective what need to be evaluated in this layer may be things such as how much would a person pay for this component . In this case the users also have security needs and may be giving his location available online that may give him an experience of lack of privacy . The said component may also require needs to be an input for the evaluation of the design module.

In another embodiment the components of the user service layer may describe specific user services that may be offered by the service provider. In addition the said layer may further describe the service in terms of the functionalities limitations as well as interactions with other services. In this case depending on the granularity and specificity of the service component definitions may be network agnostic or network aware.

By way of example components in the user service layer may be wireless video conferencing push to talk. In addition the said components as well as buddy finder application described in the previous section are examples of user service layer components. In addition components in this layer may be used to offer multiple and diverse user experience components. Furthermore push to talk application may satisfy a communication between friends experience in a retail user scenario it may also satisfy a control over team experience in an enterprise scenario. In addition all said needs to be inputs into an end to end evaluation.

In yet another embodiment the adaptation layer may be a transition layer between the user space and the network space. In addition the said layer may be an optional layer in the evaluation of any specific design concept and may be formulated primarily as a good to have design practice. The said layer may consist of components that may define mapping and data transformations between network defined services and their usage to implement user service components.

Furthermore apart from a clean and segregated design this allow the user service components to remain network agnostic and potentially increasing the reach and target audience of the design concept. Furthermore the said buddy finder application may find buddies across WLAN GSM and possibly the regular wired internet domains using different mediation components. In addition introducing components in this layer may also add an element of future proofing to the user service layer components. In addition a user service component that may provide push to talk services in a GSM network may continue offering the services even if the network migrates to UMTS.

In an embodiment the network service layer may contain components that may expose services offered by the network. These components may be network and technology aware components. Defining and evaluating these components requires a high level of technology competence and may typically involve technical architects. In addition components in this layer may define the service the protocols and access mechanism that can be used to access the service and the technology capabilities required from the layer below the interoperability layer .

By way of example components in this layer may be internet protocol IP streaming intelligent networks IN capabilities mobility management. To take a specific example the IP streaming component in this layer may be used by multiple user service layer components such as wireless video conferencing. The user service layer components may likely use multiple network service layer components specifically wireless video conferencing. In addition mobility management may also be used for the said purpose.

In another embodiment components in the interoperability or protocol layer address the aspects of implementing a specific network service with a measure of platform independence. In addition components in this layer expose application programming interfaces APIs or protocols for accessing platform functionality such connectivity such as sockets messaging XML interface executing environment.

By way of example components such as POSIX standard the java virtual machine JVM the SNMP API may be specific examples. In all cases the said components may allow a network service to be created in a relatively platform independent manner.

In another embodiment components in the platform layer may provide basic platform level functionality examples of which are mentioned in the earlier section as well. In addition functionalities such as memory management fail over hot swapping inter process communications may come into scope in this layer .

By way of example the utility of the whole model may be seen clearly with a specific example of a new design concept in this layer. To mention specific examples a network designer comes up with a new design concept related to high availability HA . In addition instead of evaluating the product on technical merits by using the model the designer may be forced to identify and evaluate components at all the other levels and present an overall case for the development of the design concept.

In yet another embodiment the monitoring and control layer components may tie up the management information across components in one or more layers. In addition there may be advantages of pulling out as a separate aspect that span across the other one or more layers. Firstly the said layer enables the thought process to incorporate concepts of integrated management of the whole service offering. To be more specific in a lot of cases the said layer also helps in clarifying and improving the design concept itself. All of the main management functionalities such as fault configuration accounting performance and security need to be considered while detailing aspect of the model.

As will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art the various implementations of the present technique provide a variety of advantages. For example the present technique may be an end to end approach to the modeling and design of network functionality. In addition in the rapidly changing converged wireless network this model may be significant for the below stated reasons the advantages may be summarized as below. Firstly the chromatographic model fosters an end to end evaluation mindset and may help businesses and stakeholders in doing a detailed analysis before implementation of specific design concepts. Secondly in a market where competition may be very high and there may be no margin for error in terms of product selections and service offerings the model with its simple but effective methodology may yield significant business benefits. Thirdly a detailed analysis of each of the layers for a particular design concept leads to a full architecture explanation and help in defining clearly the depth and breadth of the service offering. Fourthly the model brings together the various stakeholders on to a common evaluation platform and enables them to think along similar lines.

While the following description id presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of the requirement for a obtaining a patent. The present description is the best presently contemplated method for carrying out the present invention. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles of the present invention may be applied to other embodiments and some features of the present invention may be used without the corresponding use of other features. Accordingly the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest cope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

Many modifications of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the arts to which the present invention applies. Further it may be desirable to use some of the features of the present invention without the corresponding use of other features.

Accordingly the foregoing description of the present invention should be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the present invention and not in limitation thereof.

The above described devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can include for example any suitable servers workstations PCs laptop computers PDAs Internet appliances handheld devices cellular telephones wireless devices other devices and the like capable of performing the processes of the exemplary embodiments of . The devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can communicate with each other using any suitable protocol and can be implemented using one or more programmed computer systems or devices.

One or more interface mechanisms can be used with the exemplary embodiments of including for example Internet access telecommunications in any suitable form e.g. voice modem and the like wireless communications media and the like. For example the employed communications networks can include one or more wireless communications networks cellular communications networks 3 G communications networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTNs Packet Data Networks PDNs the Internet intranets a combination thereof and the like.

It is to be understood that the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of are for exemplary purposes as many variations of the specific hardware and or software used to implement the exemplary embodiments are possible as will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art s . For example the functionality of one or more of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can be implemented via one or more programmed computer systems or devices.

To implement such variations as well as other variations a single computer system can be programmed to perform the special purpose functions of one or more of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of . On the other hand two or more programmed computer systems or devices can be substituted for any one of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of . Accordingly principles and advantages of distributed processing such as redundancy replication and the like also can be implemented as desired to increase the robustness and performance the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of .

The devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can store information relating to various processes described herein. This information can be stored in one or more memories such as a hard disk optical disk magneto optical disk RAM and the like of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of . One or more databases of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can store the information used to implement the exemplary embodiments of the present invention. The databases can be organized using data structures e.g. records tables arrays fields graphs trees lists and the like included in one or more memories or storage devices listed herein. The processes described with respect to the exemplary embodiments of can include appropriate data structures for storing data collected and or generated by the processes of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of in one or more databases thereof.

All or a portion of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can be conveniently implemented using one or more general purpose computer systems microprocessors digital signal processors micro controllers and the like programmed according to the teachings of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention as will be appreciated by those skilled in the computer and software arts. Appropriate software can be readily prepared by programmers of ordinary skill based on the teachings of the exemplary embodiments as will be appreciated by those skilled in the software art. In addition the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be appreciated by those skilled in the electrical art s . Thus the exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software.

Stored on any one or on a combination of computer readable media the exemplary embodiments of the present invention can include software for controlling the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of for driving the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of for enabling the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of to interact with a human user and the like. Such software can include but is not limited to device drivers firmware operating systems development tools applications software and the like. Such computer readable media further can include the computer program product of an embodiment of the present invention for performing all or a portion if processing is distributed of the processing performed in implementing the exemplary embodiments of . Computer code devices of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention can include any suitable interpretable or executable code mechanism including but not limited to scripts interpretable programs dynamic link libraries DLLs Java classes and applets complete executable programs Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA objects and the like. Moreover parts of the processing of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention can be distributed for better performance reliability cost and the like.

As stated above the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments of can include computer readable medium or memories for holding instructions programmed according to the teachings of the present invention and for holding data structures tables records and or other data described herein. Computer readable medium can include any suitable medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media transmission media and the like. Non volatile media can include for example optical or magnetic disks magneto optical disks and the like. Volatile media can include dynamic memories and the like. Transmission media can include coaxial cables copper wire fiber optics and the like. Transmission media also can take the form of acoustic optical electromagnetic waves and the like such as those generated during radio frequency RF communications infrared IR data communications and the like. Common forms of computer readable media can include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other suitable magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other suitable optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other suitable physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other suitable memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other suitable medium from which a computer can read.

While the present invention have been described in connection with a number of exemplary embodiments and implementations the present invention is not so limited but rather covers various modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims.

