---

title: User-tailorable romanized chinese text input systems and methods
abstract: Methods and systems for romanizing Chinese ideograms allow a user to create a personalized spelling dictionary that converts a user's desired roman-alphabet spelling to an equivalent Chinese character. A phonetic combination from a standard Chinese dialect is selected. The user defines a roman alphabet equivalent of the selected phonetic combination that fits the way the user pronounces the phonetic combination in the user's own dialect or idiolect.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08108772&OS=08108772&RS=08108772
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08108772
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071005
---
This is a Continuation of application Ser. No. 10 248 880 filed Feb. 26 2003. The disclosure of the prior application is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Nearly all languages even Japanese and Korean have an accepted standard of pronunciation and an alphabetic for writing it using dictionaries on computer DOC . Chinese is unique in its wide range of pronunciations and lack of a tradition of phonetic script. To some extent Mandarin serves the role of a standard which can be represented via the modern inventions of pinyin romanization and of bopomofo phonetic alphabet. However Mandarin still feels foreign to many Chinese speaking people.

As a result many computer based Chinese character input methods known as Input Method Editors IME are based on the visual shape of the characters or even on abstract numeric codings. This gives rise to a worse is better situation in the market where exceptionally inefficient effortful methods have become extremely popular. Also although phonetic based Input Method Editors exist their utility is greatly hampered by the vast variation in dialect and romanization habits among individual users.

Extensive study has been devoted to Chinese dialects and their similarities and differences. Examples of reports can be found in Measuring Relationship Among Dialects DOC and Related Resources by Chin Chuan Cheng 2.1 41 72 1997 and Quantitative Methods in Comparative Dialectology by Xiwen Ma 212 pp. 348 360 1989. Also it has been reported that using a series of 47 pronunciation tests a speaker s dialect can be determined.

With the advances made in the studies of Chinese dialects phonetic methods can be more efficient and easy to use. With enough sophistication such phonetic based systems can provide the nearest thing to a best solution.

This invention provides systems and methods that allow a user to tailor Chinese text input based on the user s personal style.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to customize Chinese text input based on the user s dialect.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to customize Chinese text input base on the user s individual pronunciation or idiolect.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to develop a portable personal roman alphabet to Chinese character conversion dictionary or personal spelling dictionary that reflects the user s particular style.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to develop a portable personal roman alphabet to Chinese phonetic lookup table.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to develop a portable personal roman alphabet to Chinese character conversion dictionary or personal spelling dictionary that is an adjunct preprocessor to an existing phonetic input system.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to develop a portable personal roman alphabet to Chinese phonetic lookup table that is an adjunct preprocessor to an existing phonetic input dictionary.

This invention separately provides systems and methods for romanizing Chinese ideograms against a standard dialect.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to develop a personal roman alphabet to Chinese character conversion dictionary that is portable.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to update a previously developed personal roman alphabet to Chinese character conversion dictionary.

This invention separately provides systems and methods that allow a user to download a personal roman alphabet to Chinese character conversion dictionary so that the user can use the personal roman alphabet to Chinese character conversion dictionary elsewhere and or to load a personal roman alphabet to Chinese character conversion dictionary developed elsewhere.

This invention further provides systems and methods for determining the user s dialect based on a series of queries and the user s responses.

This invention additionally provides systems and methods that allow the user to customize Chinese text input based on the determined dialect.

Various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this invention allow a user s dialect to be determined and or a user s personal spelling dictionary to be developed. Various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of the invention may be used in any of a wide variety of devices including for example personal computers. In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention a user responds to one or more queries during one or more interview sessions. In various exemplary embodiments the queries are questions regarding specific Chinese characters and the responses are answers to the questions. In various exemplary embodiments the queries are Chinese ideograms and the responses are the user s desired equivalent roman alphabet strings for those ideograms. In various exemplary embodiments the user s equivalent roman alphabet strings are used to build up the user s personal spelling dictionary. In various other exemplary embodiments the queries are questions dialects and the responses are answers to the questions.

In various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention the personal spelling dictionary is portable so that the user is able to develop the personal spelling dictionary at one location while being able to use the personal spelling dictionary at another location.

In various exemplary embodiments the answers may then be used to determine the user s dialect. In various exemplary embodiments the user s equivalent roman alphabet strings can be used to determine the user s dialect.

These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in or are apparent from the following detailed description of various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods according to this invention.

The phonetic table contains a plurality of potential phonetic combinations. In various exemplary embodiments a list of vowel phonemes is arranged horizontally across a top portion of the phonetic table . In various exemplary embodiments a list of consonant phonemes is arranged vertically along a left hand side portion of the phonetic table . However it should be appreciated that in various other exemplary embodiments of the phonetic table the list of vowel phonemes and the list of consonant phonemes can be arranged in different ways and or at different portions of the phonetic table . The phonetic table is divided into cells where each cell represents a phonetic combination in association with its corresponding vowel and consonant phonemes. For example a cell is associated with the vowel phoneme a and the consonant phoneme m. 

In various exemplary embodiments the list of vowel phonemes and the list of consonant phonemes are obtained from a Chinese dialect that is used as a standard. In various exemplary embodiments this dialect is Mandarin. However in various other exemplary embodiments this standard dialect could be Cantonese Fukien or Shanghai.

The list of vowel phonemes contains vowels transition vowels and their combinations. For example it contains the complex phonemes and diphthongs uo uang and ua as well as the simple phonemes a o and e. 

The phonetic table may also contain a tone panel not shown . The tone panel can be used to reflect the different tones and tone patterns used to pronounce Chinese words and portions of Chinese words.

In the phonetic table the cells representing the phonetic combinations can have different colors or shades to reflect the permissibility of each phonetic combination for a given dialect or for a given individual s idiolect. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the cells are presented in 3 shades black cells white cells and gray cells . In this exemplary embodiment a black cell indicates that the phonetic combination represented by the vowel and consonant phonemes associated with that cell is not permitted in the implemented dialect or idiolect such as the standard dialect. That is this combination of consonant and vowel phonemes is not possible and cannot occur in the implemented dialect or idiolect used to populate the phonetic table . A white cell indicates that the phonetic combination represented by the vowel and consonant phonemes associated with that cell is both permissible and actually used i.e. actually occurs in the implemented dialect or idiolect. A gray cell indicates that the phonetic combination of the vowel and consonant phonemes associated with that cell is permissible i.e. could occur but does not occur in the implemented dialect or idiolect. That is this combination is phonetically possible but no such phonetic combination actually occurs in any word in the implemented dialect or idiolect.

Each white cell may be associated with one or more Chinese characters or ideograms with the pronunciation determined by the vowel and consonant phonemes associated with that cell. That is a single pronunciation may be shared by two or more characters. Also in the phonetic table shown in each white cell can be activated such as by being selected using an input or selection device such as a mouse trackball or the like to initialize a romanization session for the pronunciation of Chinese character or the syllable associated with that cell as will be discussed in greater detail below.

In some exemplary embodiments of the phonetic table shown in each gray cell may also be activated such as by being selected using an input or selection device such as a mouse trackball or the like to initialize a romanization session for the pronunciation of Chinese character or the syllable associated with that cell as will be discussed in greater detail below.

The status panel indicates the status and conditions of an interview session. A heading indicates a name of the interview interface. This name can be determined by the developer of the interview interface. It can also be customized for each user. A progress indicator indicates whether an interview or a session of an interview is in progress or is completed. The progress indicator indicates this progress by showing indicating phrases such as in progress and done .

A dialect indicator shows the dialect that is being used as the implemented dialect or idiolect and whose vowel and consonant phonemes are displayed in the phonetic table . The dialect indicator indicates whether the dialect used as the standard dialect is Mandarin or some other dialect such as Cantonese Fukien or Shanghai or a idiolect. The implemented dialect or idiolect may be chosen before the interview interface is initiated. The implemented dialect or idiolect may also be selected and changed while the interview interface is active such as by activating a dialect list or selection graphical user interface widget not shown and selecting a dialect from the set of listed dialects. A font indicator indicates the font used to show the phonetic data such as the vowel and consonant phonemes in the phonetic table and or the Chinese characters or ideograms shown in romanization panel which will be discussed in greater detail below.

An interview status indicator indicates the status of the interview displayed in the phonetic table . For example the interview status indicator indicates whether an interview session is on or off. The interview status indicator also indicates whether an interview is for fill in exceptions ambiguities or verification . Each of these types of interview sessions will be discussed in greater detail below.

A syllable file indicates the name of the file or database that stores a user s personal spelling dictionary. A syllable i.e. a phonetic combination represented by one of the cells or defined by a user during an interview session will be recorded in that user s personal spelling dictionary. This personal spelling dictionary is portable. Therefore syllables defined by a user during an interview session can be used elsewhere independent of the interview interface where the conversion between the romanization and the corresponding one or more Chinese characters were defined. For example the personal spelling dictionary built up during an interview on one computer may be downloaded from that computer and transferred to another computer where the personal spelling dictionary can be used or updated. The transfer may be accomplished using for example a floppy disk a CD ROM a network or the like.

A single ambiguity file indicates the name of the file or database used to store Chinese characters with two different pronunciations. A double ambiguity file indicates the name of the file or database that stores Chinese characters with at least 3 different pronunciations. The single ambiguity file and the double ambiguity file are in various exemplary embodiments parts of the personal spelling dictionary and are also portable. However in various other exemplary embodiments the single and double ambiguity files and can be separate from the personal spelling dictionary.

An auto open indicator indicates the status of an auto open function. When the auto open function is off the interface shown in is used for a user to build up a personal spelling dictionary through a series of romanization sessions where each session is dedicated to a single phonetic combination. In the contrast in various exemplary embodiments when auto open function is on the interface shown in can be used to determine a large portion of a user s personal spelling dictionary through a series of interview sessions each for a different phonetic combination. That is as each session is completed a next session is automatically opened. In various exemplary embodiments both the romanization sessions and the interview sessions can use the same interview interface as will be discussed in greater detail below in connection with the romanization panel .

In various exemplary embodiments when the auto open function is on the auto open function enables automatic interview sessions to determine the user s desired romanization for the selected syllables. The auto open function automatically selects phonetic combinations without a user s intervention and displays the combinations as discussed in greater detail below. In various exemplary embodiments the user responds to each phonetic combination by entering alphabet equivalents to the consonant and vowel components in a way discussed below. In various exemplary embodiments the system can also be used to determine the user s dialect by analyzing the user s responses.

When the auto open function is on the auto open function may work in difference modes. The auto open function may select phonetic combinations sequentially randomly or logically. When the auto open function works in a sequential mode the next option indicator of the auto open function option is highlighted. In this mode the auto open function selects an interview session for a phonetic combination according to where the associated vowel phoneme is in the sequence of the list of vowel phonemes and where the associated consonant phoneme is in the sequence of the list of consonant phonemes . When the auto open function is in a random mode the random option indicator of the auto open indication is highlighted. In this mode the auto open function picks a phonetic combination for a next interview session at random.

When the auto open function is in a logical mode a logical option indicator of the auto open indication is highlighted. In this mode the auto open function selects an interview session for a phonetic combination based on a predetermined logical relationship between the last cell and a next cell. For example in various exemplary embodiments the next cell is selected based on relationships that reflect the similarities and differences between Chinese dialects. Such a selection takes advantage of the logical relationship between the dialects to skip over and possibly exclude certain phonetic combinations. The skipped over phonetic combinations are those whose interview sessions are not essential or necessary for advancing the determination of the user s personal spelling dictionary. This tends to reduce computational time and thus increases efficiency.

A table status indicator indicates the status of the phonetic table . The table status indicator shows whether the phonetic table explicitly shows the gray cells. For example when the table status indicator indicates that the gray cells are to be shown the visual appearance of those cells that represent only potential phonetic combinations is allowed to differentiate those cells from the white cells and the black cells . On the other hand when the table status indicator indicates that the gray cells are not to be shown only white cells and black cells will appear in the phonetic table . In various exemplary embodiments the potential phonetic combinations that would otherwise be represented using the gray cells are lumped into the black cell category. It should be appreciated that in some exemplary embodiments one or more of the heading the progress indicator the dialect indicator the font indicator the interview status indicator the syllable file the single ambiguity file the double ambiguity file and or the auto open indicator and or one or more of the options of the progress indicator the interview status indicator and or the auto open indicator can be omitted. Likewise other options could be provided.

For a phonetic combination used in the implemented dialect or idiolect the user romanizes the phonetic combination into a syllable in his or her personal spelling dictionary. The syllable is a roman alphabet equivalent to the phonetic combination which may or may not have the same spelling as the standard romanized phonetic combination in the implemented dialect or idiolect. The roman alphabet equivalent is chosen by the user during a romanization session of an interview. The roman alphabet equivalent is chosen so that the roman alphabet equivalent comfortably fits the user s own dialect or in a way that conveniently matches the way the user speaks Chinese.

In various exemplary embodiments the roman alphabet equivalent is chosen so that the roman alphabet equivalent comfortably fits the user s own idiolect in which the user speaks Chinese without any dialect being implemented in the romanization panel and or without determining the user s dialect. When the interface of is used to generate a personal spelling dictionary a romanization session can be initiated by a user s intervention. The user can initiate a romanization session for a specific phonetic combination by clicking on the grid in the phonetic table that represents the phonetic combination.

In various exemplary embodiments a romanization session is initiated automatically by the auto open function . As discussed above the auto open function can initiate romanization sessions for a number of phonetic combinations in a sequential order according to the sequential positions of the vowel and consonant phonemes associated with those phonetic combinations. The auto open function can also initiate romanization sessions for phonetic combinations in a random fashion in which next a phonetic combination is randomly selected for romanization. In addition the auto open function can initiate romanization sessions for phonetic combinations in a logical way in which a next phonetic combination is selected for romanization according tests that reflect the similarities and differences between romanization of archetypal Chinese characteristics and or between Chinese dialects. In various exemplary embodiments this may be used to determine a user s dialect as will be discussed in greater detail below.

In various exemplary embodiments when a romanization session is initiated the romanization panel is displayed as shown in . The romanization panel can be initialized to fill in a syllable associated with a phonetic combination for example when creating or updating a personal spelling dictionary. In this case the fill in option will be indicated in the interview status indicator . The romanization panel can also be initiated to verify the romanization of a phonetic combination that has previously been romanized. In this case the verify option will be indicated in the interview status indicator . Furthermore the romanization panel can be initiated to update the romanization of a phonetic combination that has been romanized. This way a user s personal spelling dictionary can be modified and changed at the user s discretion.

In various exemplary embodiments the romanization panel includes a panel heading an information panel an ideogram panel a first point zoom widget a second point zoom widget an original consonant display box a romanized consonant display box an original vowel display box a romanized vowel display box an added synonym panel an ambiguity panel a subtracted panel and an action panel . However it should be appreciated that in some exemplary embodiments one or more of these elements can be omitted from the romanization panel . The panel heading indicates the phonetic combination represented by a cell that is to be romanized. The ideogram panel shows the Chinese character or ideogram associated with the phonetic combination that is to be romanized.

The information panel displays information if any to help the user to understand the Chinese character that is displayed on the ideogram panel . The content shown in information panel may be a picture an image a drawing a color or a phrase. For example when the Chinese character in the ideogram panel is hong red the information panel may show the red color to help a user understand that hong is associated with the red color. Also for example when the Chinese character shown in ideogram panel is nuu woman the information panel may show a picture of a woman such as for example the Mona Lisa to help the user understand that nuu is associated with woman. 

The information panel may be associated with a database that can be progressively updated. Such a database may be updated before an interview session. The database may also be updated during an interview session by way of an information update graphical user interface element not shown of the romanization panel . This database does not have to have information for each and every character. Also when there is information for a character a user may choose different types of information related to the character such as a picture a phrase or a movie clip by selecting from an information display method graphical user interface element not shown of the romanization panel .

The first point zoom widget and the second point zoom widget are controls used to indicate whether a roman alphabet equivalent to a phonetic combination is spelled the same as the phonetic combination itself in the implemented dialect or idiolect. When the first point zoom widget is checked the roman alphabet equivalent to the phonetic combination associated with the Chinese character shown in ideogram panel is the same as the phonetic combination in the implemented dialect or idiolect. On the other hand when the second point zoom widget is checked the roman alphabet equivalent to the phonetic combination associated with the Chinese character shown in the ideogram panel is different from the phonetic combination in the implemented dialect or idiolect.

The original consonant display box shows the consonant phoneme from the consonant phoneme list of the phonetic table that is associated with the Chinese character displayed in the ideogram panel . The romanized consonant display box shows the string of roman letters chosen and entered by the user as the spelling of the consonant phoneme for this Chinese character desired by the user. The user chooses this roman letter string for the consonant phoneme for the character shown in the ideogram panel based on how the user pronounces this character in the user s own dialect.

The original vowel display box indicates the vowel phoneme from the vowel phoneme list of the phonetic table that is associated with the Chinese character shown in the ideogram panel . The romanized vowel display box shows the string of roman letters chosen and entered by the user as the spelling of the vowel phoneme for this Chinese character preferred by the user. The user chooses this roman letter string for the vowel phoneme according to the way the user pronounces this character in the user s own dialect.

The added synonym panel is for optional entries of synonyms of the character shown in the ideogram panel . For example when the character shown in the ideogram panel is ma mother synonyms such as mom mommy dear mother or dearest mother can be added in the added synonym panel .

The ambiguity panel indicates whether there is any ambiguity associated with the pronunciation of the character shown in the ideogram panel . For example the ambiguity panel may indicate a single ambiguity if the character has two different pronunciations. The ambiguity panel may indicate a double ambiguity if the character has 3 or more different pronunciations.

The subtracted panel indicates whether the roman alphabet equivalent of the character shown in the ideogram panel is an exception of or in conflict with the roman alphabet equivalent of a group of characters that have the same phonetic combination with each other in the group as well as with the character shown in the ideogram panel in the implemented dialect or idiolect. Usually a character that shares the same phonetic combination with a group of other characters in the implemented dialect or idiolect also shares the same roman alphabet equivalent with that group of characters. This character would be an exception if this character does not share the same roman alphabet equivalent with the group. When this occurs this character will be subtracted from the general roman alphabet equivalent of the group indicated in subtracted panel .

For example the characters of mother question fiber horse and criticize have the same phonetic combination of ma in Mandarin dialect. Thus the character of mother may be considered to belong to a group that includes the characters for question fiber horse and criticize . Usually the roman alphabet equivalent of the character for mother is the same as the roman alphabet equivalent of each other character in the group. As an example if the roman alphabet equivalent of the character for mother is mu in a user s dialect the roman alphabet equivalents of the characters for questions fiber horse and criticize are usually also mu in the user s dialect.

However if the roman alphabet equivalents for the characters for question fiber horse and criticize are all mi but the roman alphabet equivalent of the character for mother is mu the character for mother will be considered an exception to the group of characters for question fiber horse and criticize . Accordingly when the user indicates mu as the roman alphabet equivalent of the character for mother by entering m and u in the fields of romanized consonant display box and romanized vowel display box respectively the subtract panel will show mi to indicate the roman alphabet equivalent of a group of characters which shares the same phonetic combination ma with the character for mother in Mandarin dialect and to which the character for mother is an exception in the user s dialect.

The action panel provides a number of function options such as okay apply reset and cancel. These options can be used by a user to for example confirm or clear the choices entered using the romanization panel .

In one exemplary embodiment of operating the interface to create a personal spelling dictionary the user clicks the white cell of the phonetic table associated with the vowel phoneme a and the consonant phoneme m . This initiates a romanization session and causes the romanization panel for the Chinese character mother associated with the phonetic combination ma to be displayed. The phonetic combination ma is shown in the heading . The Chinese character of mother is shown in the ideogram panel . The information panel currently shows nothing because no picture image drawing color or phrase has been established or loaded in association with this character.

In this example as shown in the original consonant display box shows the consonant string m and the original vowel display box shows the vowel string a associated with the displayed and the selected cell character. The user selects the roman alphabet consonant string and the roman alphabet vowel string associated with the displayed character according to the user s own dialect and enters these roman alphabet strings into the romanized consonant display box and the romanized vowel display box respectively.

When the entered consonant and vowel roman alphabet strings are the same as those in the implemented dialect shown in the phonetic table the first point zoom widget is manually or automatically checked to indicate that the roman alphabet equivalent to the phonetic combination is the same as the phonetic combination in the implemented dialect or idiolect. Accordingly the second point zoom widget remains unchecked. In contrast when one or both of the entered consonant and vowel roman alphabet strings are different from those in the implemented dialect shown in the phonetic table the first point zoom widget is automatically or manually unchecked and the second point zoom widget is automatically or manually checked.

In the example shown in the user does not have any aliases for the character mother . Accordingly the user does not enter anything in the added synonym panel . Also for this user the character has only one pronunciation. Accordingly the user does not enter anything in the ambiguity panel . Furthermore for this user this character is not an exception to a generalization of a group of characters sharing the same phonetic combination. Accordingly the user does not enter anything in the subtracted panel . The user can then choose an appropriate option in the action panel to confirm or to clear what the user has entered. When the user chooses the ok option the information is recorded the romanization session is complete and the romanization panel for this character disappears. Thereafter the user may decide whether to romanize another phonetic combination. If the user wants to romanize another phonetic combination the user chooses another cell of the phonetic table .

After each romanization session any changes made are saved to the files listed in the status panel . In various exemplary embodiments these files are portable. They can be downloaded by way of a floppy disk CO ROM or the like. They can also be transmitted by way of a network or the like.

In various exemplary embodiments once the roman alphabet equivalent of a phonetic combination for a cell is determined that cell is marked to indicate that phonetic combination has been romanized. In various exemplary embodiments this is done by changing the visual appearance of the cell such as for example by dimming the color and or brightness of that cell. In this way a user can tell from the appearance of the cells in the phonetic table which phonetic combinations have been romanized.

In various other exemplary embodiments the phonetic table is used to display the phonetic combinations of the user s dialect rather than the phonetic combinations of a particular implemented dialect. In this exemplary embodiment the user may select a phonetic combination from the user s dialect shown in the phonetic table and associate it with a Chinese character that can be selected from a list.

In various exemplary embodiments the phonetic table comprises two tables a phonetic table corresponding to a given implemented dialect such as a standard dialect and a phonetic table corresponding to the user s dialect. The two phonetic tables may be arranged side by side. They may also be arranged in such a way that they are displayed one over another.

In various other exemplary embodiments of the operation of the interface where the interface is used by a dialect determining system to determine a user s dialect the dialect determining system invokes the auto open function to automatically select specific phonetic combinations. can thus also illustrate this use of the interface . In this example the dialect determining system has selected a phonetic combination associated with vowel phoneme a and the consonant phoneme m and is using the interface shown in to display this phonetic combination. This initiates a romanization session and causes the display of the romanization panel for the Chinese character mother associated with the phonetic combination ma to be displayed. The phonetic combination ma is shown in the heading . The Chinese character of mother is shown in the ideogram panel . The information panel currently shows nothing because no picture image drawing color or phrase has been established or loaded in association with the character.

In this example the original consonant display box shows the consonant string m and the original vowel display box shows the vowel string a associated with the character. The user selects a roman alphabet consonant string and a roman alphabet vowel string associated with the character according to the user s own dialect and enters these roman alphabet strings into the romanized consonant display box and the romanized vowel display box respectively.

The user can then choose an appropriate option in the action panel to confirm or to clear what the user entered. When the user chooses the ok option the romanization session is complete and the romanization panel disappears. Afterwards the dialect determining system that uses the interface may decide whether to initiate another interview session for another phonetic combination. If the dialect determining system does not have enough information to determine the user s dialect the dialect determining system will usually initiate another interview session. In contrast if the dialect determining system has enough information to determine the user s dialect the dialect determining system may stop the interview process.

Although the embodiment shown in uses a standard dialect so that a user can choose a phonetic combination in that dialect to bring up a Chinese ideogram in various other exemplary embodiments a standard dialect is not required. In such exemplary embodiments Chinese ideograms are selected and displayed by various other means such as the visual shape of a Chinese ideogram or the number of strokes in a Chinese ideogram.

In step S a determination is made whether to romanize a next Chinese ideogram. If so operation returns to step S where a next Chinese ideogram is selected and displayed. Otherwise if not operation proceeds to step S where operation of the method ends.

In step S those phonetic combinations for syllables not present in the implemented dialect are marked out. In the example shown in the cells representing phonetic combinations not present in the implemented dialect are marked out as black cells in the phonetic table . In various exemplary embodiments phonetic combinations for syllables that are phonetically possible but not in use in the implemented dialect are marked out as gray cells in the phonetic table . In other various exemplary embodiments phonetic combinations for syllables that are phonetically possible but not in use in the standard dialect are also marked out as black cells in the phonetic table . However it should be appreciated that in some variations of this exemplary embodiment steps S and S are omitted. Operation then continues to step S.

In step S a phonetic combination for which a roman alphabetic equivalent is not known is selected. This phonetic combination may be a first phonetic combination if the interview session has just started. This phonetic combination can also be a subsequent phonetic combination if selected during an interview after the beginning of the interview. In various exemplary embodiments this phonetic combination is automatically selected. That is in this case in various exemplary embodiments the phonetic combination is selected for example using the automatic open function . In step S the first or next phonetic romanization session for phonetic combination can be selected in a sequential order according to the sequential positions of the vowel and the consonant associated with a phonetic combination. In step S the first or next phonetic combinations can be randomly selected for romanization. In addition in step S the first or next phonetic combinations can be selected in a logical way in which a phonetic combination is selected for romanization according tests that reflect the similarities and differences between previously romanized phonetic combinations and or between Chinese dialects. After the first or next phonetic combination is selected operation continues to step S.

In step S a Chinese ideogram corresponding to the selected phonetic combination is displayed. An example is shown in where the Chinese character ideogram of mother is shown in accordance with the phonetic combination of ma . Next in step S a roman alphabet equivalent of the displayed Chinese ideogram is received from a user. The user inputs the roman alphabet equivalent according to the way the user would spell and or pronounce the character. Then in step S the roman alphabet equivalent is stored or recorded against the displayed phonetic combination. Next in step S the current state of phonetic data is analyzed to determine if any other phonetic combination can be derived. Operation then continues to step S.

In various exemplary embodiments the analysis in step S can include deriving roman alphabet equivalents for similar characters from a possible general phonetic pattern among a group of characters based on the characteristics of the implemented dialect. For example if it can be determined from the characteristics of the implemented dialect and or the information received from the user thus far that the consonant z and the vowel ei in the implemented dialect are always romanized as zh and ai respectively in the user s dialect a generalization may be derived that all ideograms with the phonetic combination zei in the implemented dialect have a roman alphabet equivalent of zhai in the user s dialect. Also once the phonetic combination zei in the implemented dialect is associated with the roman alphabet equivalent of zhai in the user s dialect it may be possible to derive that the phonetic combination shun in the implemented dialect must be associated with the roman alphabet equivalent of xong in the user s dialect based on the similarities and differences between the previously romanized Chinese ideograms and or between Chinese dialects. However in various other exemplary embodiments step S can be omitted.

In step S the roman alphabet equivalent is derived for any determined other phonetic combination. In the example discussed above in connection with step S if it can be determined that the consonant z and the vowel ei in the implemented dialect are always romanized as zh and ai respectively in the user s dialect all ideograms with phonetic combination zei in the implemented dialect will be automatically romanized as zhai in the user s dialect without having to interview for each of the ideograms with the phonetic combination zei in the implemented dialect. Also as discussed above in connection with step S it may be possible to derive that all ideograms with phonetic combination shun in the implemented dialect will be automatically romanized as xong in the user s dialect without having to interview for any of the ideograms with the phonetic combination shun in the implemented dialect. Operation then continues to step S.

In step S the derived roman alphabet equivalent for each determined other phonetic combinations is stored or recorded. Then in step S a determination is made whether there are any allowable phonetic combinations in the implemented dialect for which roman alphabet equivalents have not been determined. If so operation continues to step S. Otherwise operation jumps to step S.

In step S a determination is made whether the user wishes to end the current interview session. If not operation jumps back to step S where a next phonetic combination is selected. Otherwise operation continues to step S where operation of the method ends.

Using either of the first or second exemplary embodiments shown in the user may build a personal spelling dictionary to reflect the way the user speaks Chinese which may or may not be different from the way reflected in the implemented dialect. A phonetic combination may be selected by the user. The selection may be made when a roman alphabet equivalent is not known. The selection may also be made for updates even if a roman alphabet equivalent has been defined previously by the user or by a dialect determining session e.g. by derivation .

In various other exemplary embodiments of user tailorable romanized Chinese text input systems and methods according to this invention a user may choose to initiate an interview session by directly choosing a dialect or by directly answering questions related to dialects to allow the system to determine the user s dialect.

In step S an input in answer to the displayed question is received from the user. The answer can be selected from a list of pre determined possible answers or can be entered by the user through a device such as a keyboard. For example the user may type in a roman alphabet equivalent for an ideogram. Then in step S a determination is made whether the user s dialect can be determined from information received thus far. If so operation jumps to step S. Otherwise if not operation proceeds to step S.

In step S a next question is determined based on the previous answers received from the user. Next in step S the next question determined in step S is displayed to the user. Operation then returns to step S.

In determining the next question to be displayed in step S the relationship between the next question and the previous answers may be anywhere from remotely pertinent to closely pertinent. For example at one extreme in determining the next question the previous answers can be logically used to exclude questions that have no bearing on determining the user s dialect. On the other hand at the other extreme the next question can be determined in a virtually random way having little to do with the previous answers. Of course the determination of the next question can be based on the previous answers in a way that is between the two extremes.

In step S the user s dialect is determined based on the responses supplied by the user to the displayed queries. Then in step S the determined dialect is stored. Operation then continues to step S where operation of the method ends.

As shown in the personal spelling dictionary generating system is in various exemplary embodiments implemented on a programmed general purpose computer. However the personal spelling dictionary generating system can also be implemented on a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor DSP a handwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a PLD PLA FPGA or PAL or the like. In general any device capable of implementing a finite state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts shown in can be used to implement the personal spelling dictionary generating system . In various exemplary embodiments the personal spelling dictionary generating system is a pre processor for a phonetic based input method editor.

The input output I O interface may comprise a plurality of components. The I O interface interacts with the outside of the personal spelling dictionary generating system . For example the I O interface receives user input from one or more user input devices over a link . The I O interface also outputs information to display device s over a link . The one or more user input devices may be a mouse a track ball a keyboard a joystick or the like. The one or more user input devices may also interact with graphical user interface widgets displayed on an interactive screen. The one or more display device s may be a display screen an interactive screen or the like.

As shown in the memory can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable volatile or non volatile memory or non alterable or fixed memory. The alterable memory whether volatile or non volatile can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic RAM a floppy disk and disk drive a writeable or re writeable optical disk and disk drive a hard drive flash memory or the like. Similarly the non alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM an optical ROM disc such as a CD ROM or DVD ROM disk and disk drive or the like. As shown in the memory includes one or more of a phonetic data portion which stores phonetic data of different dialects a dictionary portion which stores personal dictionaries and associated files generated and or updated by the personal spelling dictionary generating system a user input portion which stores inputs from a user an interview portion which stores information of an interview session and optionally a question portion which stores question information which can include questions to be asked in determining a user s dialect.

In various exemplary embodiments the various circuits routines or applications shown in are programmable or programmed circuits routines or applications including but not limited to computer software executable computer code or the like. In various exemplary embodiments of the personal spelling dictionary generating system shown in the phonetic combination mark out circuit routine or application functions to mark out phonetic combinations for syllables not present in a dialect. The phonetic combination selecting circuit routine or application selects phonetic combinations for which one or more roman alphabet equivalents are to be defined. The display circuit routine or application modifies the displayed user input screens such as the interview interface and or the romanization panel to display on the display device a Chinese ideogram corresponding to a selected phonetic combination.

The controller stores into the dictionary portion the romanization information input by the user using the one or more user input devices and or the displayed user input screens such as roman alphabet equivalent information entered and or defined by a user into the romanization panel in response to a Chinese ideogram. The romanization information analyzing circuit routine or application if implemented analyzes the state of phonetic data to determine if any phonetic combinations can be derived and derives and or stores roman alphabet equivalents for any determined additional phonetic combinations. The dialect determining circuit routine or application if provided determines whether a dialect can be determined from available information stored in the dictionary portion and or the interview portion . The question selecting circuit routine or application if provided determines questions to display during an interview. The question portion if provided stores questions that the question selecting circuit routine or application selects as the question selecting circuit routine or application operates.

In various exemplary embodiments of the operation of the personal spelling dictionary generating system according to this invention a user uses the personal spelling dictionary generating system shown in to build up the user s personal spelling dictionary. In operation the user interacts with the personal spelling dictionary generating system via the one or more user input devices and the I O interface .

When the user indicates a desire to create a personal spelling dictionary or to update or increase the amount of information in the user s personal spelling dictionary the question selecting circuit routine or application under control of the controller selects or generates a question based on the question information stored in the question portion to determine an implemented dialect or idiolect. Under control of the controller the question is output through the input output interface and displayed on the display device .

When the user inputs an answer to indicate whether an implemented dialect or idiolect is known and or what the implemented dialect or idiolect is the input output interface receives the user s input from the one or more user input devices and under control of the controller the answer is stored in the user input portion . When the answer indicates that the implemented dialect or idiolect is known and what the implemented dialect or idiolect is the controller recalls the implemented dialect or idiolect stored in the phonetic data portion and forwards it to the phonetic combination mark out circuit routine or application . The phonetic combination mark out circuit routine or application under control of the controller marks out phonetic combinations for syllables not present in the implemented dialect or idiolect.

Next the phonetic combination selecting circuit routine or application interacts with the user via the one or more user input devices and the I O interface . For example the user may select using the one or more user input devices a phonetic combination cell displayed on the display device . In response the controller forwards the user s input to the phonetic combination selecting circuit routine or application which under control of the controller displays a romanization panel including an ideogram that is associated with the selected phonetic combination on the display device .

Further the user may enter using the one or more user input devices a roman alphabet equivalent to the ideogram displayed in the romanization panel on the display device . In response the controller forwards the user s entry to the romanization information analyzing circuit routine or application which under control of the controller analyzes the entry and or the state of phonetic data stored in phonetic data portion to determine if any phonetic combinations can be derived. If no phonetic combinations can be derived the romanization information analyzing circuit routine or application under control of the controller stores the user s entry at the phonetic data portion . On the other hand if phonetic combinations can be derived the romanization information analyzing circuit routine or application under control of the controller derives roman alphabet equivalents for any determined additional phonetic combinations. Then the romanization information analyzing circuit routine or application under control of the controller stores the derived roman alphabet equivalents for any determined additional phonetic combinations along with the user s entry in the phonetic data portion .

In another exemplary embodiment of the operation of the personal spelling dictionary generating system according to this invention a user uses the personal spelling dictionary generating system shown in to load and or download the user s personal spelling dictionary. In this exemplary embodiment the user interacts with the personal spelling dictionary generating system using the one or more user input devices and I O interface . The controller uploads to or downloads from the dictionary portion the user s personal spelling dictionary.

In another exemplary embodiment of the operation of the personal spelling dictionary generating system according to this invention a user uses the personal spelling dictionary generating system shown in to determine the user s dialect. In this exemplary embodiment the user interacts with the personal spelling dictionary generating system using the one or more user input devices and I O interface .

When the user indicates a desire to determine the user s dialect the question selecting circuit routine or application under control of the controller determines a question to ask the user. The question selecting circuit routine or application retrieves the selected question from the question portion and under control of the controller displays the question on the display device .

When the user inputs an answer the input output interface receives the answer and under control of the controller stores the answer in the user input portion . Furthermore the dialect determination circuit routine or application under control of the controller determines whether the user s dialect can be determined. If the dialect determination circuit routine or application determines that the user s dialect can not be determined the question selecting circuit routine or application under control of the controller determines another question to display to the user and the process repeats. If the dialect determination circuit routine or application determines that the user s dialect can be determined the dialect determination circuit routine or application under control of the controller determines the user s dialect and instructs the interview portion to record store the determined dialect. In various exemplary embodiments after the user s dialect is determined operation of the personal spelling dictionary generating system ends. Alternatively after the user s dialect is determined the user is offered the option of modifying the determination of the user s dialect before operation of the personal spelling dictionary generating system ends.

In another exemplary embodiment of the operation of the personal spelling dictionary generating system according to this invention a user uses the personal spelling dictionary generating system shown in to determine the user s dialect by going over one or more interview sessions. In this operation the user interacts at the user input device with the personal spelling dictionary generating system through the I O interface . When determining the user s dialect the question selecting circuit routine or application under control of the controller displays a question to the user that allows the user s dialect or idiolect to be determined.

While particular embodiments have been described alternatives modifications variations improvements and substantial equivalents that are or may be presently unforeseen may arise to applicants or others skilled in the art. Accordingly the appended claims as filed and as they may be amended are intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications variations improvements and substantial equivalents.

