---

title: Video decoder with adaptive outputs
abstract: In one aspect, there is provided a video decoder including a first write port to write uncompressed video data to a first buffer in a first format adapted based on an input required by the video decoder and to suppress writing to the first buffer. The video decoder also includes a second write port to write uncompressed video data to a second buffer in a second format adapted to provide the uncompressed video data for subsequent processing external to the video decoder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139632&OS=08139632&RS=08139632
owner: ATI Technologies ULC
number: 08139632
owner_city: Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20070525
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 728 016 filed Mar. 23 2007 entitled Video Decoder With Adaptive Outputs the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Processing of video data often includes receiving a stream of video data and rendering for presentation on a display device. The video data includes video frames and or video fields. Typically video frames are generated for presentation on composite display devices such as cathode ray tube CRT monitors high definition HD televisions and or liquid crystal display LCD panels while video fields are typically presented on interlaced devices such as traditional television sets. A video coder may compress the video data before storage or transmission.

To display or further process the video data the video data also referred to as image data image data bit stream digital video or video data stream may be processed by a variety of devices including a video decoder. The video decoder may process e.g. decompress video data compressed in accordance with a standard such as H.264 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 VC 1 and the like. For example the MPEG 2 standard prescribes an architecture for an MPEG 2 video decoder including aspects such as a variable length decoding section an inverse quantization section an inverse discrete cosine transform section a motion compensator section and memory. Likewise the Blue Ray disc format prescribes H.264 for video compression of high definition HD video stored on the Blue Ray disc and prescribes H.264 for the decompression of any video played back from that disc. When the video decoder includes coding mechanisms e.g. a compression section to compress uncompressed video data the video decoder is referred to as a video coder decoder or codec .

The implementation of any video decoder architecture is complex and thus costly. Moreover the complex processing requires additional memory to process the video data and requires additional bandwidth to handle the complex processing. The additional memory may require substantial die area on a chip which increases the cost of implementing the video decoder and its associated memory on an integrated circuit. Therefore there continues to be a need to process video data in an efficient manner.

The subject matter disclosed herein provides methods and apparatus including computer program products for providing a video decoder.

In one aspect there is provided a video decoder including a first write port to write video data to a first buffer in a first format adapted based on an input required by the video decoder and to suppress writing to the first buffer based on the input. The video decoder also includes a second write port to write uncompressed video data to a second buffer in a second format adapted to provide the uncompressed video data for subsequent processing external to the video decoder.

Variations may include one or more of the following features. The writing to the first buffer may be suppressed to adapt to a motion compensation module. The writing to the first buffer may be suppressed to adapt to the motion compensation module when the motion compensation module does not require one or more reference pictures from the first buffer. The first write port may include a first address calculation module for determining memory address information and control information based on whether the video data is in a frame mode or a field mode and based on the first format. The first write port may also include a first data packing module for writing the video data to the first buffer at one or more locations determined by the address calculation module. The second write port may include a second address calculation module for determining memory address information and control information based on whether the video data stream is in a frame mode or a field mode and based on the second format. The second write port may also include a second data packing module for writing the video data to the second buffer at one or more locations determined by the address calculation module. The first write port may use the field mode when the video data is interlaced and use the frame mode when the video data is not interlaced. The determination of whether to write in the frame mode or the field mode may be made on a macroblock basis. The first write port may also control the first write port to write the first format in a block of 16 by 16 when the video data input to the video decoder corresponds to H.264. The video decoder may also include a memory including one or more buffers for storing a first output of the first write port and for storing a second output of the second write port. The first write port may also write video data to the first buffer in the first format adapted based on the input required by a motion compensator section of the video decoder. The first write port may dynamically adapt writing of video data to the first buffer. The video decoder may also include an application programming interface for receiving a first call enabling configuration of the first write port to write to the first buffer and for receiving a second call enabling configuration of the second write port to write uncompressed video data to the second buffer.

The subject matter described herein may be implemented to realize the advantages of reducing memory bandwidth and providing more efficient use of memory when decoding video with a video decoder.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example the implementations described herein may be directed to various combinations and subcombinations of the disclosed features and or combinations and subcombinations of several further features disclosed below in the detailed description.

The video decoder receives video data as an input video bit stream . The input video bit steam may be in any format including any compressed video data format such as MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 H.264 and VC 1. The video decoder processes the input video bit stream using a variety of sections also referred to as modules including a reverse entropy decoder an inverse image transform e.g. a discrete cosine transform DCT a motion compensator a de blocker a DB writer and a DBW writer

The reverse entropy decoder also referred to as entropy decoding is a technique used to decode large amounts of data by examining the frequency of patterns within the data. In particular a reverse entropy decoder may be used to decompress data by replacing symbols represented by codes where the length of each codeword is proportional to the negative logarithm of the probability with symbols represented by equal length codes. Examples of reverse entropy encoders and decoders include CABAC Context based Adaptive Binary Arithmetic Coding and Huffman coding.

The inverse transform performs an inverse transform e.g. a DCT of the compressed video to decompress the video data. The inverse transform is often performed in blocks of pixels that are 8 pixels by 8 pixels 8 8 . The 8 8 block represents a portion of an image e.g. a frame or fields of video data. Once the video data has been processed by the inverse transform additional decoding such as inverse quantization and motion prediction is performed to further decompress and recover the original uncompressed video data. Although depicts inverse transform other coding and or compression mechanisms may be used.

Once inverse transform decompresses the video data motion compensator section generates the fully decoded video images. Motion compensator uses predictive coding to predict future frames from previous frames. For example if an image sequence includes moving objects then their motion within an image scene or sequence of pictures can be measured and this information may be used to predict the content of other frames in the sequence.

In some implementations a context manager is used in video decoder to provide context information when decoding macroblocks. In particular a frame of a video image may be divided into an array of macroblocks. In the case of H.264 video decoder may process the video data as a 16 16 block of picture samples or pixels. For example inverse transform motion compensation de blocking and the like may process the video data in blocks of 16 16 pixels. In this example information about the current macroblock being processed and any neighboring macroblocks may be used as context information to enable processing by the video decoder .

De blocker processes decompressed video images to smooth edges between adjacent blocks. For example an image having a size of 1920 pixels by 1080 pixels may be divided into blocks of 8 8 8 16 and 16 16. However when used de blocking may improve image quality by smoothing the edges between blocks.

DB writer writes to one or more buffers such as picture buffers in memory . The DB writer is a write port for writing to picture buffer in a format adapted to the requirements of video decoder video input bit stream and in some cases the requirements of picture buffer . In particular video decoder may write to picture buffers to enable motion compensator as well as other processing sections. Moreover DB writer may be implemented to write under the control of a central processing unit CPU and firmware in a variety formats e.g. a tile format and or a linear format to provide video data in a format required by video decoder and its internal processing sections or modules . For example the fields of interlaced video data may be stored in buffer in a linear format i.e. a horizontal line of pixels of a video image is stored in contiguous increasing memory locations in picture buffer to provide a deinterlacer of video decoder with video data in a format adapted for deinterlacing and field predication. Alternatively video data may be stored in picture buffer as tiles also referred to as blocks . The tiles may be defined by the type of video being processed by the video decoder e.g. high definition motion compensation usually requires an 8 8 block of pixels .

In some implementations DB writer dynamically adapts the format of the output written to picture buffer . For example DB writer may adapt the format based on picture level changes so that if the so called pictures in the video data change every 30 milliseconds the output of DB writer may also adapt to such changes. One example of such picture level changes is H.264 Macroblock Adaptive Frame Field MBAFF coding. When a MBAFF mode is used in a compressed bit stream field encoding or frame encoding may change from macroblock to macroblock. Moreover the DB writer may write in an interlaced format or a progressive format based on the encoding used on any given macroblock. Furthermore when MBAFF is used the video data may change from an actual frame of actual picture information to one or more fill frames. In some implementations DB writer suppresses writing to picture buffer when the video decoder and or its internal processing modules do not require so called reference pictures. Reference pictures enable processing in the video decoder . For example reference pictures may be used by motion compensator

TABLE 1 below provides example output formats of DB writer and when they would be used. The formats listed in Table 1 e.g. tiled interleaved fields etc. may change i.e. adapt on a macroblock basis and information indicating the format of each macroblock can be stored and then used whenever each macroblock is processed e.g. read from the picture buffer .

DBW writer is a write port that writes in a variety formats e.g. a tile format and or a linear format to provide video data in the format required for display and or follow on processing both of which are external to the video decoder . For example the video output of DBW may be written under the control of firmware to picture buffer in a linear format e.g. a horizontal line of pixels of a field of a video image is stored in contiguous increasing memory locations in picture buffer . The contiguous increasing memory locations in picture buffer are output to splitter and an advanced video processor for further processing before presentation at a monitor HD television or the like. In addition video data may be stored in picture buffer as tiles for a graphics processing unit e.g. 3 D graphics engine or graphics accelerator for further processing and or display. The output of DBW may be written to buffer in a digital display format such as YUV YCbCr and the like. The output format of the DBW writer is adapted to requirements external to the video decoder such as the requirements of a follow on graphics processing unit or the requirements for a display. TABLE 2 below provides example formats and when they would be used.

The memory may be implemented as any form of memory including RAM random access memory DRAM dynamic RAM SRAM Static RAM and any other mechanism of electronic data storage. Although depicts memory as separate from video decoder in some implementations memory may be included within the same package or die as video decoder .

The system CPU and a register file configure video decoder and DBW writer to provide an output adapted to the H.264 video input. The register file may also include information to configure DB writer to provide an output adapted to the H.264 video input as well as the sections of video decoder .

In some implementations video decoder includes an application programming interface API which can be called by an external device such as a DVD player media player e.g. Windows Media Player HD data source and the like. For example a device such as a Windows Media Player or Blue Ray DVD player may read a specific type of media e.g. H.264 formatted video data and a component such as an interface at the device may then call the API of video decoder to provide information to enable the configuration of DB writer and buffer as well as the configuration of DBW writer and picture buffer . Based on information provided by the device the call would enable adaptation e.g. writing or suppressing of the format of the output provided to buffers and

In the case of a frame of a video image in a tile format e.g. in 16 16 blocks each block in the frame of pixels would be stored in contiguous memory address locations in picture buffer . The address calculation logic would receive an initial base address and data format image size image resolution an indication that the mode is frame since the video data is non interlaced e.g. progressive video data and X Y coordinate pixel information. Next address calculation logic calculates the memory address for the video data associated with each pixel of the block e.g. a 16 16 block and provides control signals to enable writing to memory . Meanwhile data packing module receives a block and organizes the block for writing in contiguous memory addresses. For example video data associated with the top left most pixel of a 16 16 block may be written to memory first and the video data associated with the remaining 15 pixels in the top row may be subsequently written to memory before writing video data for other pixels in the next row of the block although other writing schemes may be used instead. Outputs of module and are the memory address memory data and various control signals necessary to perform the write cycles to memory buffers . Outputs of module and are the memory address memory data and various control signals necessary to perform the write cycles to memory buffers

The frame field mode inputs to address calculation logic and data packing are provided by a configuration register which can be written to by a processor using firmware. The frame field mode inputs to address calculation logic and data packing are provided by another configuration register which can be written to by a processor using firmware. The pixel stream inputs of data packing modules and is provided by a de blocker module which produces the de blocked block of pixels to be used by a motion predictor e.g. as reference frames or to be used by video post processing modules. The x y coordinates pixel type inputs of address calculation logic and are provided by a de blocker module. The x y coordinates pixel type information represents display screen locations of the associated pixel stream data as well as the type of pixel data. The type of pixel data may indicate that certain pixels are supposed to be written to certain memory buffers and only by DB writer . The data format input of data packing is provided by a configuration register which can be written to by a processor using firmware. The data format input of data packing is provided by another configuration register which can be written to by a processor using firmware.

At video decoder processes input video data stream so that the video data is decompressed. For example video decoder may include an inverse DCT section to process the compressed video data to yield decompressed video data.

At video decoder may write using DB writer the uncompressed video data to picture buffer . The video data written to picture buffer may be formatted based on the requirements of the video decoder . In some implementations DB writer may write to picture buffer in a format adapted for an input of one of the sections of video decoder . For example DB writer may write to picture buffer video data formatted as reference frame images for use by motion compensator

In some implementations DB writer may suppress writing to picture buffer . The video decoder may receive video data corresponding to pictures that do not require one or more reference pictures e.g. very static scenes may not require motion compensation . When this is the case video decoder detects e.g. using aspects of H.264 that reference pictures are not required and adapts the format of the output of DB writer . In this example DB writer may adapt its output by suppressing e.g. not writing video data e.g. reference pictures to buffer . Alternatively DB writer may suppress writing to picture buffer by writing so called fill data e.g. dummy data to picture buffer

At video decoder may write using DBW writer video data to picture buffer . The video data written to picture buffer is formatted based on the requirements of components external to video decoder . For example video data written by DBW writer to picture buffer may be formatted in 16 16 blocks for a 3 D graphic engine or may be written in another digital format for presentation. In some implementations video decoder may more efficiently process video data by using two write ports e.g. DB writer and DBW writer each adapted to write to buffers and using a specified format thus minimizing waste of memory resources at buffers and when compared to approaches using a single write port.

In some implementations the subject matter described herein may use two write ports to decouple internal memory buffers of a video decoder from output memory buffers of a video decoder so that for example a video player application may dictate on a frame by frame basis the format of the decoded video data output.

Although the above describes de interlacing as part of the video decoder de interlacing may also be implemented as part of advanced video processor .

Moreover although the above describes particular image processing protocols as examples e.g. H.264 and VC1 embodiments may be used in connection any other type of image processing protocols and standards. Although the above describes a video decoder a video encoder may also be implemented using aspects similar to those described above. Furthermore any implementations described herein might be associated with for example an Application Specific integrated Circuit ASIC device a processor a video encoder video decoder video codec software hardware and or firmware. In addition to simplify the explanation of the features of the subject matter described herein depict simplified video decoders including only some of the sections which may be included in a video decoder. Although the above describes the use of two write ports within the context of a video decoder a device other than a video decoder may implement the two write ports described herein.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

The foregoing description is intended to illustrate but not to limit the scope of the invention which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

