---

title: Systems and methods for clinical data validation
abstract: Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a method for validating clinical data including receiving a consistency requirement, receiving a data claim associated with clinical data, and evaluating the data claim based at least in part on the consistency requirement. Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a clinical data validation system including a consistency requirement input component adapted to receive a consistency requirement, a data claim input component adapted to receive a data claim, and a validation component adapted to evaluate the data claim based at least in part on the consistency requirement. The data claim is associated with clinical data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751252&OS=08751252&RS=08751252
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08751252
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070427
---
The present invention generally relates to clinical information systems. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for clinical data validation.

Healthcare practitioners work with many forms of clinical data such as images and measurement data from various scanners and modalities and electronic medical records EMR . The clinical data may be stored in a number of formats. These formats may include a variety of file formats such as Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM images Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG images WAV audio files and Portable Document Format PDF files Extensible Markup Language XML data and database tables for example.

Generally metadata is associated with core clinical data such as an image. The metadata may include for example patient identification exam accession number and time and place of scan. In some cases metadata is stored as part of the same file as the core clinical data. For example the DICOM format supports storing metadata in a clinical data file with the image information. However in many formats metadata is stored separately from the clinical data itself. For example a non DICOM image such as a JPEG image may have metadata stored in a database. As another example a WAV audio file containing a dictated report may have metadata stored in a database or XML file. This can lead to the core clinical data and the metadata becoming separated. As a result there are risks ranging from the loss of the ability to use the clinical data to misidentification of data and ensuing misdiagnosis.

In addition to these risks there is no standard mechanism for storing or validating the original source or even the namespace for any given piece of metadata. For example different applications and or systems may use different Medical Record Numbers MRNs to identify the same patient. An MRN may be specific to a particular system or care provider for example.

As mentioned medical professionals work with many kinds of clinical data. Often a healthcare provider may view a variety of clinical data for a patient or an exam at one time. For example a physician may review images acquired by an imaging modality along side a patient s EMR. Some applications make an effort to ensure that they only show consistent data at any one time. That is an application may attempt to verify that the data displayed to a user is all associated with the current patient or exam. However this requires explicit coding in each application and is error prone.

In addition to consistency problems within a single application consistency across multiple applications is even more problematic. Often applications that display clinical data are provided by different vendors and thus must cooperate to try to ensure consistency.

Health Level 7 HL7 provides a standard called Clinical Context Object Workgroup CCOW . The CCOW standard provides for an architecture that attempts to ensure consistency across different data elements. A CCOW compliant application communicates with a context manager to set a patient context. For example the CCOW compliant application may identify the MRN of the current patient. The context manager then notifies other CCOW compliant applications of the current context. These applications in turn should update their internal state and display data accordingly. However CCOW does not guarantee that the applications have done so. In addition CCOW does not address the problem of a single application that has a bug that results in two or more pieces of inconsistent clinical data being presented to a user. Thus while CCOW facilitates communication between components which display clinical data of the current patient context CCOW does not validate that displayed clinical data actually complies with the patient context.

The possibility of inconsistency in the presentation of clinical data may cause inefficiencies in development and in clinical workflow as well as clinical hazards to patients who could be misdiagnosed if an application provides inconsistent clinical data.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a method for validating clinical data including receiving a consistency requirement receiving a data claim associated with clinical data and evaluating the data claim based at least in part on the consistency requirement.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a clinical data validation system including a consistency requirement input component adapted to receive a consistency requirement a data claim input component adapted to receive a data claim and a validation component adapted to evaluate the data claim based at least in part on the consistency requirement. The data claim is associated with clinical data.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a computer readable medium including a set of instructions for execution on a computer the set of instructions including a consistency requirement input routine a data claim input routine and a validation input routine. The consistency requirement input routine is configured to receive a consistency requirement. The data claim input routine is configured to receive a data claim. The data claim is associated with clinical data. The validation routine is configured to evaluate the data claim based at least in part on the consistency requirement.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention certain embodiments are shown in the drawings. It should be understood however that the present invention is not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.

The validation component is in communication with the applications . In certain embodiments the applications and the validation component communicate through an application programming interface API . The validation component is in communication with the alert component .

In operation a consistency requirement is provided to the validation component . The consistency requirement specifies one or more criteria for evaluating the consistency of data claims. Data claims are provided to the validation component from the applications . The data claims are associated with clinical data to be presented to a user by the applications . The data claims are evaluated by the validation component based at least in part on the consistency requirement. The user is notified by the alert component when the evaluation indicates a violation of the consistency requirement has occurred.

The consistency requirement may be provided by a user such as a healthcare provider physician or nurse for example. The consistency requirement is received by the validation component . The consistency requirement may specify a variety of different conditions to be met. The consistency requirement may include one or more conditions. If the consistency requirement is not met a violation is said to occur. For example the consistency requirement may include criteria that clinical data be for the same patient. That is the consistency requirement is violated when data claims for each piece of clinical data to be presented to the user are determined to not be for the same patient. As another example the consistency requirement may include a condition that each image be from the same imaging session or exam. That is the consistency requirement is violated when data claims for each image to be presented to the user are determined to not have been acquired during the same imaging session or exam. As another example the consistency requirement may require that data from only a defined set of trusted sources is to be displayed. As another example the consistency requirement may require that only data collected during the past year is to be displayed. As another example the consistency requirement may require that the data displayed have been collected at a specified hospital.

A data claim is associated with clinical data. The clinical data may be presented to a user. A data claim is metadata that makes claims about the associated clinical data. That is each data claim is treated as an assertion that the value of the claim is correct. For example a data claim called creation date may include a value of Nov. 14 2006. This data claim is treated as an assertion that the creation date of the associated clinical data is Nov. 14 2006. In certain embodiments a data claim is implemented as a set of name value pairs. The data claims are stored as name value pairs to maximize flexibility however other formats may be used.

In certain embodiments a set of well known fields with predefined names are provided that a compliant system supports. This may allow a base level of interoperability. For example these fields may include patient identifiers exam identifiers MRNs creation dates modification dates and source of the clinical data. In addition in certain embodiments systems may be customized to define their own fields which will then support interoperation amongst only those applications for those fields.

A set of claims is referred to as a data claims block. A data claims block includes one or more data claims. In addition the data claims block may include a digital signature. Alternatively the data claim itself may include a digital signature. The digital signature may be used to verify the data claims and or the clinical data. In certain embodiments the digital signature is generated from one or more data claims in the data claims block. In certain embodiments the digital signature is generated from the data claims and the clinical data. For example the digital signature may allow a system or user to verify that the data has not been tampered with. As another example the digital signature may allow a system or user to verify that the metadata came from the specified validation authority using standard cryptographic techniques.

An application provides clinical data to a user. For example the application may display an image from an acquisition modality or a patient s medical records to a physician. The application communicates data claims associated with the clinical data to be displayed to the validation component .

The validation component is adapted to receive a consistency requirement. For example the validation component may receive a consistency requirement from a user. The consistency requirement may be received by a consistency requirement input component of the validation component for example. That is in certain embodiments the validation component includes a consistency requirement input component adapted to receive a consistency requirement.

The validation component is adapted to receive one or more data claims. For example the validation component may receive a data claim from an application . For example the validation component may receive multiple data claims from a single application . As another example the validation component may receive multiple data claims from different applications .

The data claim may be received through the API for example. The data claim may be received by a data claim input component of the validation component for example. That is in certain embodiments the validation component includes a data claim input component adapted to receive a data claim.

The validation component is adapted to evaluate data claims associated with clinical data to be displayed to a user by one or more applications using the consistency requirement. When a data claim for clinical data violates the consistency requirement the user may be alerted. The user may be alerted by the alert component for example.

The alert component is adapted to alert a user when clinical data to be presented violates the consistency requirement. More particularly if the data claims associated with clinical data are evaluated to violate the consistency requirement the user is alerted.

The alert component may alert the user in a variety of ways. For example the alert component may generate an audible or visual alert such as a beep or a flashing window. As another example the alert component may generate a pop up window to signal to a user that inconsistent data is being displayed.

In certain embodiments the data claims may be communicated from the application to the validation component through the API . That is certain embodiments include a standard API for manipulation and communication of data claims. The API may include calls to interrogate set and validate claims for clinical data for example. The API may provide unified access to clinical data of a variety of types include those that support data claim metadata within the file format as well as types that do not. The various types of formats of clinical data are discussed in more detail below.

The following is an example of the operation of an embodiment of the present invention. A patient has a computed tomography CT scan done at some point in time. The CT scanner which has been adapted to provide the data claims according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a data claims block in each image it outputs. This block shows the facility at which the scan was performed as the validation authority and includes claims about the identity of the patient an accession number for the exam the date the exam took place etc. Later the same patient has an EKG performed at another hospital. Because the EKG machine has not been adapted to use data claims according to an embodiment of the present invention an external piece of software then injects a data claims block into the EKG data after it has been generated. At a still later date the patient visits the emergency room. A clinician looking at the patient s medical history then brings up a variety of clinical data for the patient which are stored on a variety of data systems including data from the CT scan and EKG performed earlier. In addition the clinician inadvertently brings up a scan for another patient. Because the clinician had configured her desktop data claims validation system to verify that all displayed data is for a single patient she is notified that she is viewing inconsistent data. After closing the data for the other patient the warning clears the validation system via the use of a translation authority establishes that the EKG and the CT Scan though performed at different facilities are for the same patient and hence are in compliance with the user s stated requirements.

The validation component is in communication with the metadata API . If present the validation component is in communication with the validation authority . If present the validation component is in communication with the translation authority .

The validation component may be similar to the validation component discussed above for example. The metadata API may be similar to the API discussed above for example.

In operation the validation component receives one or more consistency requirements e.g. configuration . The consistency requirements specify one or more criteria for evaluating the consistency of data claims. The validation component receives one or more data claims. The data claims are associated with the clinical data . The clinical data includes the data claims as metadata. The data claims may be received through the metadata API . The clinical data may be used by one or more applications. The validation component evaluates the data claims based at least in part on the consistency requirements . A user may be notified when the evaluation indicates a violation of a consistency requirement has occurred.

The consistency requirements may be similar to the consistency requirements discussed above for example. The consistency requirements may be provided by a user such as a healthcare provider physician or nurse for example. The consistency requirements may specify a variety of different conditions to be met. The consistency requirement may include one or more conditions. If a consistency requirement is not met a violation is said to occur. For example a consistency requirement may include criteria that clinical data be for the same patient. That is the consistency requirement is violated when data claims for each piece of clinical data to be presented to the user are determined to not be for the same patient.

The clinical data is associated with one or more data claims. The data claims may be similar to the data claims discussed above for example. A data claim is metadata that makes claims about the associated clinical data. That is each data claim is treated as an assertion that the value of the claim is correct. For example a data claim called creation date may include a value of Nov. 14 2006. This data claim is treated as an assertion that the creation date of the associated clinical data is Nov. 14 2006. In certain embodiments a data claim is implemented as a set of name value pairs. The data claims are stored as name value pairs to maximize flexibility however other formats may be used.

In certain embodiments a set of well known fields with predefined names are provided that a compliant system supports. This may allow a base level of interoperability. For example these fields may include patient identifiers exam identifiers MRNs creation dates modification dates and source of the clinical data. In addition in certain embodiments systems may be customized to define their own fields which will then support interoperation amongst only those applications for those fields.

A set of claims is referred to as a data claims block. A data claims block includes one or more data claims. The clinical data may be stored in a number of formats. In some formats the data claims may be incorporated into the clinical data as metadata. For example a data file that supports metadata may have a data claims block inserted as metadata. As another example an XML or HTML page e.g. a user interface or medical record may have a data claims block inserted according to a standard format inline with the HTML or XML. As another example a user interface screen may have a data claims block inserted. As another example a row of a database table may have a data claims block inserted as another column in the table. The data claims may be represented as a binary large object BLOB for the new column entry for the database row . As another example the data claims may be represented as text which may be encoded in a separate table referenced by foreign key.

However some formats of clinical data do not support including the data claims. For example a data file may not support metadata. Thus to associate the data claims with the data file a data claims file envelope is used. The data claims file envelope includes the clinical data or a reference to the clinical data along with the data claims. The metadata API is adapted to allow the data claims and the clinical data to be accessed from the data claims file envelope . The data claims file envelope may be used on a wide variety of file formats at the cost of having to wrap and unwrap the data for direct use in an application.

The above described mechanism for incorporating data claims into various formats of clinical data provides a generalized system for storing clinical metadata embedded with the associated clinical data across multiple data storage formats. This mechanism provides for simpler more reliable maintenance of metadata for clinical data.

The validation component is adapted to receive a consistency requirement . For example the validation component may receive a consistency requirement from a user. The consistency requirement may be received by a consistency requirement input component of the validation component for example. That is in certain embodiments the validation component includes a consistency requirement input component adapted to receive a consistency requirement .

The validation component is adapted to receive one or more data claims. For example the validation component may receive a data claim from an application. The application may be similar to the application discussed above for example. For example the validation component may receive multiple data claims from a single application. As another example the validation component may receive multiple data claims from different applications .

The data claim may be received through the metadata API for example. The data claim may be received by a data claim input component of the validation component for example. That is in certain embodiments the validation component includes a data claim input component adapted to receive a data claim.

The validation component is adapted to evaluate data claims associated with clinical data to be displayed to a user by one or more applications using the consistency requirement . When a data claim for clinical data violates the consistency requirement the user may be alerted. The user may be alerted by the alert component for example. The alert component may be similar to the alert component discussed above for example.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the system includes one or more validation authorities . A validation authority is an entity such as software hardware an imaging modality or an organization that generates a data claim. For example a CT scanner adapted according to an embodiment of the present invention may be a validation authority . When clinical data e.g. a medical image is generated by the validation authority e.g. the CT scanner one or more data claims are generated and associated with the clinical data by the validation authority .

In certain embodiments the validation authority also generates a digital signature for the data claims and or the clinical data. The digital signature may be used to verify the data claims for example. The digital signature may be similar to the digital signature discussed above for example.

In certain embodiments the validation authority is adapted to receive and verify the accuracy of data claims in the clinical data . For example the validation component may receive a data claims block for clinical data . The validation component may then utilize the validation authority that generated the data claims block as indicated by a data claim in the data claims block for example to verify that the data claims received by the validation component are correct. That is the validation authority may vouch for the accuracy of the data claims. The validation component may communicate with the validation authority through the metadata API for example.

In certain embodiments a user may trust one or more validation authorities and not trust other validation authorities . For example the validation component may be configured to utilize only trusted validation authorities . The trusted or non trusted validation authorities may be specified as part of a consistency requirement for example. When a non trusted validation authority is needed to validate a data claim the validation component may provide a warning to the user. The warning may be provided using an alert component similar to the alert component discussed above for example.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the system includes one or more translation authorities . A translation authority is adapted to translate a data claim from one namespace to another namespace. Data claims generated by different systems e.g. validation authorities may have different namespaces. For example different hospitals may use different identifiers to identify the same patient. Thus even though data claims may logically be for the same patient the data claims themselves may include different values for the patient identifier because the values are from different namespaces.

The validation component may use a translation authority to translate a data claim from the namespace of one system to the namespace of another system. The validation component may communicate with the translation authority through the metadata API for example.

The components elements and or functionality of system and system may be implemented alone or in combination in various forms in hardware firmware and or as a set of instructions in software for example. Certain embodiments may be provided as a set of instructions residing on a computer readable medium such as a memory or hard disk for execution on a general purpose computer or other processing device.

At step a consistency requirement is received. The consistency requirement specifies one or more criteria for evaluating the consistency of data claims. The consistency requirement may be similar to the consistency requirement discussed above for example.

The consistency requirement may be provided by a user such as a healthcare provider physician or nurse for example. The consistency requirement may be received by a validation component such as the validation component and or the validation component discussed above for example. The consistency requirement may specify a variety of different conditions to be met. The consistency requirement may include one or more conditions. If the consistency requirement is not met a violation is said to occur. For example the consistency requirement may include criteria that clinical data be for the same patient. That is the consistency requirement is violated when data claims for each piece of clinical data to be presented to the user are determined to not be for the same patient. As another example the consistency requirement may include a condition that each image be from the same imaging session or exam. That is the consistency requirement is violated when data claims for each image to be presented to the user are determined to not have been acquired during the same imaging session or exam. As another example the consistency requirement may require that data from only a defined set of trusted sources is to be displayed. As another example the consistency requirement may require that only data collected during the past year is to be displayed. As another example the consistency requirement may require that the data displayed have been collected at a specified hospital.

The consistency requirement may be received by a consistency requirement input component of the validation component for example. That is in certain embodiments the validation component includes a consistency requirement input component adapted to receive a consistency requirement.

At step a data claim is received. The data claim is associated with clinical data to be presented to a user. The data claim may be similar to the data claims discussed above for example. One or more data claims may be received.

A data claim is associated with clinical data. The clinical data may be presented to a user. A data claim is metadata that makes claims about the associated clinical data. That is each data claim is treated as an assertion that the value of the claim is correct. For example a data claim called creation date may include a value of Nov. 14 2006. This data claim is treated as an assertion that the creation date of the associated clinical data is Nov. 14 2006. In certain embodiments a data claim is implemented as a set of name value pairs. The data claims are stored as name value pairs to maximize flexibility however other formats may be used.

In certain embodiments a set of well known fields with predefined names are provided that a compliant system supports. This may allow a base level of interoperability. For example these fields may include patient identifiers exam identifiers MRNs creation dates modification dates and source of the clinical data. In addition in certain embodiments systems may be customized to define their own fields which will then support interoperation amongst only those applications for those fields.

A set of claims is referred to as a data claims block. A data claims block includes one or more data claims. In addition the data claims block may include a digital signature. Alternatively the data claim itself may include a digital signature. The digital signature may be used to verify the data claims and or the clinical data. In certain embodiments the digital signature is generated from one or more data claims in the data claims block. In certain embodiments the digital signature is generated from the data claims and the clinical data. For example the digital signature may allow a system or user to verify that the data has not been tampered with. As another example the digital signature may allow a system or user to verify that the metadata came from the specified validation authority using standard cryptographic techniques.

The data claim may be received by a validation component similar to the validation component and or the validation component discussed above for example. For example the validation component may receive a data claim from an application. For example the validation component may receive multiple data claims from a single application. As another example the validation component may receive multiple data claims from different applications.

The data claim may be received through an API similar to the API and or the metadata API for example. The data claim may be received by a data claim input component of the validation component for example. That is in certain embodiments the validation component includes a data claim input component adapted to receive a data claim.

At step a data claim is verified. The data claim may be the data claim received at step discussed above for example.

The data claim may be included in a data claims block. The data claims block may include a digital signature. Alternatively the data claim itself may include a digital signature. The digital signature may be used to verify the data claims and or the clinical data. In certain embodiments the digital signature is generated from one or more data claims in the data claims block. In certain embodiments the digital signature is generated from the data claims and the clinical data. For example the digital signature may allow a system or user to verify that the data has not been tampered with. As another example the digital signature may allow a system or user to verify that the metadata came from the specified validation authority using standard cryptographic techniques. The digital signature may be generated by a validation authority similar to the validation authority discussed above. The validation authority may be the entity that originally generated the data claim and associated it with the clinical data for example.

The data claim may be verified by a validation component similar to the validation component and or the validation component discussed above for example.

In certain embodiments the data claim may be verified by a validation authority similar to the validation authority discussed above for example. For example the validation component may receive a data claims block for clinical data. The validation component may then utilize the validation authority that generated the data claims block as indicated by a data claim in the data claims block for example to verify that the data claims received by the validation component are correct. That is the validation authority may vouch for the accuracy of the data claims. The validation component may communicate with the validation authority through the metadata API for example.

At step a data claim is translated. The data claim may be translated by a translation authority similar to the translation authority discussed above for example.

The data claim may be translated from one namespace to another namespace. Data claims generated by different systems e.g. validation authorities may have different namespaces. For example different hospitals may use different identifiers to identify the same patient. Thus even though data claims may logically be for the same patient the data claims themselves may include different values for the patient identifier because the values are from different namespaces.

The validation component may use a translation authority to translate a data claim from the namespace of one system to the namespace of another system for example. The validation component may communicate with the translation authority through the metadata API for example.

At step a data claim is evaluated. The data claim may be evaluated by a validation component similar to the validation component and or the validation component discussed above for example. The data claim may be evaluated based at least in part on a consistency requirement. The consistency requirement may be the consistency requirement received at step discussed above for example.

As discussed above the consistency requirement may specify a variety of different conditions to be met. The consistency requirement may include one or more conditions. If the consistency requirement is not met a violation is said to occur. For example the consistency requirement may include criteria that clinical data be for the same patient. That is the consistency requirement is violated when data claims for each piece of clinical data to be presented to the user are determined to not be for the same patient. As another example the consistency requirement may include a condition that each image be from the same imaging session or exam. That is the consistency requirement is violated when data claims for each image to be presented to the user are determined to not have been acquired during the same imaging session or exam. As another example the consistency requirement may require that data from only a defined set of trusted sources is to be displayed. As another example the consistency requirement may require that only data collected during the past year is to be displayed. As another example the consistency requirement may require that the data displayed have been collected at a specified hospital.

At step a user is alerted. The user may be alerted by an alert component similar to the alert component discussed above for example. The user may be alerted in a variety of ways. For example an audible or visual alert may be generated such as a beep or a flashing window. As another example a pop up window to signal to the user that inconsistent data is being displayed may be generated.

One or more of the steps of the method may be implemented alone or in combination in hardware firmware and or as a set of instructions in software for example. Certain embodiments may be provided as a set of instructions residing on a computer readable medium such as a memory hard disk DVD or CD for execution on a general purpose computer or other processing device.

Certain embodiments of the present invention may omit one or more of these steps and or perform the steps in a different order than the order listed. For example some steps may not be performed in certain embodiments of the present invention. As a further example certain steps may be performed in a different temporal order including simultaneously than listed above.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide improved patient safety through guaranteed data consistency. Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a standard mechanism for guaranteed validity and traceability of clinical data. Thus certain embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for clinical data validation. In addition certain embodiments provide a technical effect of improved patient safety through guaranteed data consistency. Certain embodiments provide a standard mechanism for guaranteed validity and traceability of clinical data. Thus certain embodiments provide a technical effect of clinical data validation.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

